ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42081	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, as an authorised representative and as a member of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to get an explanation on the debate on the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. In fact, I will briefly remind the MPs and the public that in the current National Bank of Serbia Act, the Finance Committee was an authorised committee that even formally proposed to the Serbian Parliament a candidate for governor of the National Bank of Serbia. So, on the basis of the proposal, we, members of the Committee on Finance, were elected by the National Assembly by the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia. We have these days in the procedure of the proposal for a new law on the National Bank of Serbia, and, as most of us have agreed, we have a new and much better solution for the candidate for governor of the National Bank of Serbia proposing the President of the Republic, and I think that this is how we strengthen the position of governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the whole decision-making mechanism gets its full meaning. However, with a new bill on the National Bank of Serbia, the Finance Committee is the authority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which elects members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, which is a very important thing. The debate has shown that there is even a kind of abstention in the public because the Council, ultimately with an agreement with the Executive Board, is making a decision on the course regime. So we have one very important authority to choose, that is, to propose members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. What's my question? My question is - then how did technical errors occur, that the Finance Committee is not at all authorized to discuss the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and to discuss amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia? So, we will all agree that there is little logic to discuss the work of the National Bank, to adopt the report, that a few weeks ago we adopted the resignation of the governor of the National Bank, Jelasic, that under the new law we would propose members of the National Bank Council, and that in the process of amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, we were not empowered, as a Committee, to consider this law and amendments. I think this way we will reduce the role and credibility of the Committee in our future very important work, which is the choice of members of the NBS Council. I guess now it's too late to, I'm sure, make a technical mistake and this is just my one, I'd say, more appeal and the question that in some future procedure we're taking care of to coordinate the committee's jurisdiction and work with what's written in certain laws, so that we don't get into some situation that doesn't make any sense with what's being discussed. Anyway, if there's any rational explanation, I'll be very pleased if I get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42082	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we were able to read in a daily newspaper that the Government of the Republic of Serbia answered 19 questions raised by a total of 37 MPs to the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I must say that this information is not correct and, of course, I do not think that these daily newspapers have made a mistake, but obviously they have not received the right information from the competent congregation services because only the MPs of the SRS have asked more than 37 questions, which from here, and what in writing, as allowed by our Rules of Procedure. The issues that Dragan Todorovic has been running here for several months now concern the privatisation of Luke "Belgrade" and "News". Unfortunately, we do not get any answers to these questions and, worse still, it is obvious that the authorities have no intention of doing anything seriously on this subject. Today we could also hear that VAC took 32% of the News campaign. "News" says that this is a fraud, and we ask – how long will this people be in error and when will the competent state authorities clear up this situation of fraud, is fraud and what is real truth about privatising "News"? The public could also learn about the fact that Bodo Hombah said Boris Tadic had promised him that VAC would take a certain percentage of the "News" action. Our question is – where does Boris Tadic draw his right, and in the Constitution there is no right, that he interferes in that way or in any way in the privatisation of Serbia's businesses? Also, all this is happening we are convinced that the consequence of exactly what the SRS is running, and then Miljko Radisavljevic, the special prosecutor for organised crime, appeared with information that the prosecution is investigating the allegations that Stanko Subotic Canet has given 500,000 euros to a party for an election campaign. It is not disputed that the prosecution should deal with party financing, as well as other competent authorities. We have been asking for two years – how do we get money for local campaigns for strangers who no single dinar gets out of the budget? Here, and two days ago in Bor, that party came in one place with a freezer full of dried meat products. In several places they shared livestock flour, flour for human consumption, 55 times the police intervened, but unfortunately there are no concrete results from the authorities. The questions we want to potentiate refer again to "News" and "Belgrade" Luka. The question Mr Dragan Todorovic asked the Privatisation Agency and the Agency is deafening is the question – what are the three companies that Stanko Subotic Cane gave Luka "Belgrade" money, according to his statement? We have no answer to that question, as the Agency for Business Registers did not tell us what with the 2,700,000 actions of Luke "Belgrade" which appeared, which cannot possibly fit into the account of the one that the Agency gave in response to the question, where a total of 5,972,057 actions were recorded on 22 April 2005, as much as Luka "Belgrade" owned at the time. By taking action, the broker who did the job said a total of 4.270,237 ordinary actions with voting rights were issued. The question is, what about that difference? What about the 2,700,000 shares? How, where did they come from? How did they disappear? Where'd they go? So we insist on Mrs Dolovac and the other competent authorities answering these very serious questions, because it is obvious that only the SRS truly wants to fight corruption and crime, not just declaratively, as president of Serbia and the party in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42084	The word is by MP Milos Radulovic, the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42085	These days, we have terrible natural disasters that have affected Serbia. Over 700,000 households depend exclusively on and live on agriculture. Agriculture is the only one in all indicators to show a surplus compared to imports and has a positive balance of 700m euros. Last year, we had a debate here on anti-building protection, and then Mr. Sasha Dragin convinced us that the state is doing everything to protect agricultural producers. These days, we are witnessing that a terrible elemental disaster, followed by a city, hit some parts of Serbia, primarily the Valjevski end, Mačvanski, Raški and Rasinski district, and produced enormous material damage both to farmers and to the state. Plastically to show the case of the Valjev municipality or the Valjev district how the state treated agriculture and protection. In the Valjev County, we have 67 anti-urban stations and each anti-urban station, according to some rule, should have 12 anti-urban missiles, which would protect agricultural land, or agricultural crops in the case of the city. However, as a result of the lack of supply and a small number of anti-urban missiles, we had as a result that a large part of the Valjev district was affected by the city and which caused huge damage, that out of 67 anti-urban stations practically 53 anti-urban stations had no anti-urban missiles. If we take it as 1,680 anti-urban stations in Serbia, we come to the conclusion that Serbia needs about 20,000 anti-urban missiles annually. However, the state allocated 4,500 rockets from the budget this year. I am afraid that such a negligent attitude towards agriculture and the protection of agricultural producers can have inconceivable consequences for agricultural production. Last night, visiting the national daily RTS, Mr. Milan Dacic said the biggest problem was primarily lack of storage space. It's a shame he said, because there's already a warehouse space in the Rekovac municipality, which can store about 12,000 anti-urban missiles, and that the main problem is the passing of anti-urban protection laws. The DSS Group primarily believes that it is the most responsible for this situation in which farmers have found themselves and suffered huge damage primarily to the state and hearing and unpreparedness to separate around 4m euros for anti-building missiles, especially since anti-building rocket manufacturers are primarily domestic producers, Krusik, Polyester and Trajal. My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Agriculture – why are they so irresponsible to agricultural production and its protection, and here they are full of measures and everything they do for agriculture? Do government gentlemen even understand the importance of agricultural production for Serbia's economic development?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42086	The word is from MP Srdjan Spasojevic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42087	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable President, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I would refer to the discussion of my predecessor, Mr Radulovic, because these days such elemental disasters have hit a city from which I come, or the environment, that it is simply amazing that the state has such a relationship with individual producers. We've been talking here for a year about the application of the SAA, about many things we need to realize, that agricultural production is our only chance to meet on the world market and one big chance for the general recovery of the state. If the King's economy hasn't worked long ago, it is known that individual producers of fruits in the Kingdom are known for their production, that they export their products and that they have suffered such damage in those areas known for their fruit, it is Ročevići, Vrdila, and in particular this time the village of Bukovica, the grandfathers have suffered such damage that I don't believe they can recover. It doesn't matter if a state or anyone is going to help these people compensate for the damage. But this is where we all lose. The state has to pay off. Some money is lost that can serve as an incentive for other things, but surely these individual producers may lose their market because of the irresponsible ministry, as counterpart Radulovic said, whom we tried to convince six months ago or a little more, so some NS MPs were ridiculed when they spoke of anti-building protection. A month ago, a minister of agriculture, in one mood of complete euphoria, assigned a sugar to the people's kitchen. I ask the first question, is it possible that sugar is a basic product for a folk kitchen, which is to be divided? This sugar clip can't be spent for ten years practically because sugar serves practically as a supplement. The cuisine needs food in terms of beans, peas, meat and other products. We have a situation where we ask mosquitoes when it's not the time, and when it was the basic thing to help individual producers, it wasn't done. I'll remind you, and you probably had a chance to see what happened to Mr. Predrag Perisic's household, everything was destroyed. The entire family and its damage is between 50,000 and 60,000 euros, as well as Mr. Bratislav Bezalec's. I'm sorry to all the individual producers who couldn't be seen in front of the camera, but they and the small households were all beaten up, destroyed, corn, raspberries, plums, apples. This time I ask the Registrar and ask the question – what has been done to ensure adequate anti-building protection? Of these people, I've been informed that these anti-urban protections seemed so weak, even some missiles failed to activate. In this situation, when we have an exceptional birth year, farmers and individual producers in the Kingdom and other cities of Serbia, Valjevo and other places, everything has been destroyed. We do some peripheral stuff here. The King is currently conducting an unprecedented dictatorship to take over power. We enforce laws and decisions that may be above the Constitution. We are dealing with some completely irrelevant issues in terms of some government, which is whether it's like this or not is completely irrelevant. It's important that we all here together have one common goal to help something that is absolutely a priority, which is agricultural production. So, we ask the Prime Minister to reconsider the responsibility of the resolution minister for such natural disasters that have hit the Kingdom and other parts of Serbia these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42088	The word has a letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42089	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I asked for answers to the question when the disputed privatisation of Luke Belgrade and Vecernje Novosti was carried out and received the answer, there is no doubt that these two privatisations were made at the time of the minority government of Vojislav Kostunica. I am now asking the competent investigative authorities and the prosecution, based on all the indications that are emerging in public these days, on the basis of the now almost undeniable fact that these privatisations have huge signs of issues and ambiguities, and possibly abuse, am I asking the investigative authorities and the prosecution whether they have taken appropriate steps to determine the full responsibility of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and its representatives in certain institutions in these disputed privatisations? I ask the question whether this has anything to do with the fact that a member of the DSS, or directly when Vojislav Kostunica was the director of the Privatisation Agency, is now the second man of the Evening News, and how is this linked to this whole story about how the privatisation of the Evening News has really been done under very problematic circumstances? At the same time, I'm asking you, Madam Chairman, are there any ways that these questions are not being misused by being false? It is clear, however, that the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic could neither, nor has anything to do with these two privatisations. If someone thinks it's a way to fight politically, then first of all, I think it's an inadmissible act of falseness, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I think the effect of that, of course, is the effect of the political struggle being measured in the elections and they show what the effect of political struggle is. I think there's one much more dangerous effect of this kind of falseness, which is that the responsibility of those who are really responsible for what is problematic privatisation is relatively relative. So there's no doubt that responsibility, if there were any problems with these privatisations, lies in state authorities. It was then the minority government of Vojislav Kostunica, and I don't think it's good for the public to turn their attention to some who had nothing to do with these controversial privatisations, and in this way they're actually trying to reduce the responsibility of those who are responsible and to distract the public from those who really bear responsibility for such privatisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42090	Article 27 prevents me from reacting even if I have reliable knowledge that false or distorted facts are spoken because it is forbidden on the basis of Article 27 and remains on the responsibility of all of us who have a public word obligation that must be true, if we want to build a society that is guided by the dialogue on the basis of facts. Would any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups like to request a notice? (No) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Miletic Mihajlovic and MP Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 88(1), National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for the presence of Radvoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Slobodan Jaukovic, Assistant Minister of Education and Lela Rudic, adviser at the Ministry of Education, to the National Assembly's representatives. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on higher education (specifics) On the previous working day of the debate in particular we have completed the amendment to Article 23. I only remind the MPs and presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, of the time available for discussion in particular on the draft law. The PUPS has the total time available, the Manjina parliamentary group has five minutes for the president and the total time of the parliamentary group, the New Serbia parliamentary group has the total time for the president and eight minutes and 30 seconds for the parliamentary group, the LDP parliamentary group has the total time available, both the president and the parliamentary group, the SPS-JS, the DSS parliamentary group has used the time for the authorised representative, and the MP group has 11 minutes and 15 seconds, the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia – the authorised representative has five minutes and 35 seconds, and the parliamentary group nine minutes, G 17 plus has the total time available, the SRS parliamentary group has 10 minutes and 10 seconds for the authorised representative and 38 minutes for the parliamentary group, while the ZES Group has the total time available. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Education tabled an amendment to Article 24. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The amendment will be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day, since the Legislative Committee has not delivered an opinion. The National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Jon Magda, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42091	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry, my distinguished colleague, Zoran Shami, said that the law is generally not political law. However, there are members of this bill who are politically motivated. Article 24, according to us, is politically motivated and is why DSS MPs have submitted one amendment to this article. I can say that we thought, Minister, that you would accept this amendment of ours. In fact, Article 24 speaks of the transfer of powers to the AP Vojvodina in the area of higher education. We had here a few months ago, Mr. Minister, a heated debate over the Statute of Vojvodina and, among other things, transferred over 196 powers to the AP Vojvodina. We also carried it to the field of education, i.e. in the area of higher education. Here I also have a paper with 12 points of competence from the AP Vojvodina from the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, we're really surprised why you're so condescending, which is why you're so painful to the AP Vojvodina, why are you giving them a chance again, why are you giving them so much? In this way, you're making yourself a bear service as a minister of education because you're creating a parallel system, creating a new environment. You give them even more jurisdiction, and we're right here, i.e. The ruling majority adopted a number of responsibilities to take over the AP Vojvodina from higher education. We think, Mr. Minister, that you should reconsider your decision to accept this amendment that reads - that Article 24 is deleted and that it does not enter into this draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. In the hope that you will accept this proposed amendment, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42092	Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 25th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42093	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the DSS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 25, and we considered that after Article 3, as far as this Article 25 is concerned, a fourth position should be added which reads: "Universaries are required that all other internal deadlines relating to the area of master's and doctoral studies comply with the provisions of the first three positions of this member". Which is why we have submitted this amendment, which is very similar to one of the previous ones, where we talked about a very broad and creative, especially flexible interpretation of the university, when it comes to students who have entered master's or doctoral studies under the old law. We were contacted by a large group of students, and I told Mr. Minister about it when he was coming to the parliamentary group, from various universities, with a complaint that they had no elementary conditions to present their exams and at the end of their application and defence master's work precisely because colleges very flexiblely interpret this law and believe that these students should only be in those classic deadlines, which are for regular students who are taking basic studies, to take and to study in master's and doctoral studies. That is why we have specified this new additional point of view 4 that it is important that colleges comply with both the dynamics and the timings with the proposed and the prolonged deadlines that you have set in this law. It's just fine that you let these deadlines go too far. What I'm saying is that both master and doctoral studies mean a series of steps, not only the classic interpretation of colleges, the passing of a master's or doctoral exam, but also a series of exams that should lead them to report their work and pass this. That's why I think it's important that you accept this amendment, because you would help these students complete their master's studies, or doctoral studies within an optimal time limit. By interpreting the way colleges interpret deadlines, very specific, you do not have the right to go out every month, but you have the right as well as the regular students of basic studies to leave in three or four deadlines, so it is very difficult to comply with this law that you have offered and passing master's and doctoral dissertations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42094	Thirty-five seconds of time spent by the parliamentary group. Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42095	counterpart Vojić Markovic, I agree with you that you should help students to resolve their issues in a legally prescribed manner, but universities and universities are obliged to do so, to comply with all their obligations with the law. In practice, however, the provisions governing this area, which, for example, is governed by their internal act in disagreement with the law and then, to be honest, was once an absolute expression of the ignorance and incompetence of the people who do these jobs at the level of the university. Why am I saying this? It's logical that they are in accordance with the law. I don't need to prescribe something that's mandatory, re-prescribe, but I'd like to ask colleagues from higher education who face such a situation to report to us, the Ministry, the Educational Inspectorate, so that we can determine on the spot what the problem is and solve it. Something prescribed doesn't need one more time. They will comply with the law anyway, but please tell all my colleagues immediately – if someone faces the problem, pointed out by counterpart Vojić Markovic, to address the Ministry of Education and we will send an educational inspection to resolve it. In the past we've seen, for example, one college, it doesn't matter what college it is, two years he hasn't agreed his statute with the provisions of this law, which began to apply in 2006. That's what we realized in 2008. Why? There, they're not. We had problems, first they had them, and then we and all the students had problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42096	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an interesting explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia which is why they do not want to accept the amendment that is in question. They say - the amendment should not be accepted for the reason that the higher education institution is obliged to coordinate its performance with the law, so it is not necessary to prescribe this obligation in particular. I understand we're talking about the bill today. I don't know what other law this would apply to if it didn't belong to him exactly in this law. The problem of this law on higher education has been instigating since its adoption in 2005. This is his third shift. I remember, Mr. Obradovic, when we talked about this law in 2005 that you had similar attitudes with attitudes that the MPs of the SRS had at the time. I think when this law is on the agenda, we should talk about the essence. The bottom line is that an experiment with the Bologna Declaration is a complete failure. That's what the public of Serbia needs to know. I'm saying the experiment because, I remind you, and when this law was passed in 2005 we were talking about that the Bologna Declaration is no binding act, because the very fact that it's called a declaration means it doesn't have to be applied. It is also a fact that the Bologna Declaration was not accepted by many countries, and that Serbia ran completely unprepared for something that looked like a cat in a sack and that remained a cat in a sack today. Should we remind ourselves of several lost generations from a time when the high school education of Stipe Shuvar in Serbia, that is, in all of Yugoslavia, organized these failed Shuvarica and, unfortunately, undereducated people who finished the so-called "Shuvarica". And today and today have the consequences of such poor education? We also claim that the consequences of the Bologna Declaration will also have negative consequences for young people, for young generations who are educated in Serbia. We're not paranoid, but it's a fact, and it shows from day to day that we're right, that the Bologna Declaration wanted generations of young, smart, hardworking people to be completely educationally destroyed, and it happens in action. You'll obviously change this law every year, change the number of points, and that doesn't change anything essentially. Because if this was a good law and this was a good system of education, then you wouldn't have any, remember, last year, student protests, you remember, and now they're the current various objections, so when students protest, you satisfy them in one piece, figure out how many of them are protesting for this reason, how many of them for another reason, and then those who have more of their demands. We repeat, nothing serious is happening. It is a complete decade of higher education in Serbia. You're a university professor, and I'm sure you're aware of that, too, Mr. Minister. The way this law is implemented, or the Bologna Declaration, does not contribute either to broad education or to the professional education of these young people. We're sure everyone who goes to college wants to finish it, at least most of them, but if they didn't go out on their own, they'd go out with colleges, and half-educated people, believe it or not. I don't want to offend any students when I say this, because all good students are aware of it, so they're trying to find out and learn more than they need to satisfy some number of points. Why can we claim that we were right that this concept was completely wrong? Of course, I also want to remind you of the programming attitudes of the SRS, when it comes to higher education, when it comes to colleges, of course, and in high school, you see what the euphoria is now these days about enrolment in high school, what's going to happen in ten days when they go to colleges. The entrance exams that have been introduced are, of course, according to the SRS' view of complete failure and something that is absolutely unnecessary. You say, Minister, that children and parents don't need to worry because there are more open places in high schools, that's now current, so a little digression, that there are more places available than there are registered kids to enroll in high school. The question is, how many children will be able to enroll the very school they want to enroll? You know, it's not the same if a kid's prepared to finish high school, so you can tell him there's no room in high school, but you have room for a cook. So, it's not a question of whether you've provided the total number, the total space for future high school students, but the question of how many of these kids are going to be able to go to that school that they actually want to go to? You have an example from the Kings, an actual one these days, and I listened to you in the media, you spoke on the subject. There's both parents and children very upset, because they meet the conditions, they can't be typed because the question is, is there another room where another department could be formed? It's much more serious than the things you've tried to formally change here, and so if you went into real school reform, not to follow what you inherited since 2005, but to change the essence, that's what you once stood for. I remember well that we had similar discussions and you were a folk MP at the time, to change the essence of higher education, from enrolment until the very conclusion of college. So, back to what's gonna happen these days when colleges go to college. Children who are young people, who ended well, when I say good, then I think first and foremost of all great, very good, not only formally good with the rating of three, who were good students in elementary school, then in high school, now should be on some entrance exam that, eventually, on that day, they are indisposed, that they have a fever to have a porch, that they haven't slept all night because of their fear, because of that entrance exam and that day they don't pass the entrance exam, and then they're free of what they've been worth all those years, working, what they've learned and what they've learned. This is the wrong approach, and it should know, above all, that Serbia's public, the citizens of Serbia need to know, and we Serbian radicals are behind it from the establishment of a party. These are our programming principles when it comes to higher education. What are you doing in one of the first members of this law? You're changing one provision, very dangerous, Mr. Beard, believe me, we're surprised that this is coming from you. Article 4 contained, among other things, the work of higher education, on which principles are based, among other things, on respecting the humanistic and democratic values of European and national traditions. What do you say? It is now an appreciation of the humanistic and democratic universal values of cultural heritage. What does that mean, Mr. Beard? What are the universal values of cultural heritage and what made you delete national traditions as one of the principles of higher education? This is very dangerous, this is very harmful. This came from Gaša Knezevic, from his denaciation of education. Remember, we were colleagues in the congregation benches at the time, and we attacked that principle the most intensely. And now we have it in this law. What does that mean, that our students will no longer deal with national history, national tradition? Don't play games, Mr. Obradovic, with these young people and with future generations, because if we have under-educated and insufficiently nationally conscious young people who will finish colleges, then it'll be very easy to manipulate them when they're in some profession that they end up in the meantime. There are a lot of problems, Mr. Obradovic, in education on the part of our territory on KIM. You have never confirmed by any law that the law can be applied throughout the KIM territory, and you know well that some educational workers in KIM receive two salaries: one of Serbia's states and one of Kosovo's false states. There's a rumor that one of those teachers and the wife of the KIM minister. So, very seriously, and it's very irresponsible what you're doing. Do you know, Mr. Obradovic, that the government of false Kosovo prepares in secret elections in Kosovo Mitrovica and that there are 12 people by name and last name, you know about them in the government of the Republic of Serbia - 12 people, among them unfortunately, and several Serbs, the rest of which the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry provided them with police in Kosovo Mitrovica, and their task is to prepare these elections at KIM. Do you have an explanation why, if you voted in person, if you did not, why did the Government of the Republic of Serbia abolish power, or did you introduce a forced administration into six municipalities of KIM? What's the explanation? It costs a lot. You're gonna set up, like, some coordinators, what are they gonna be volunteers or something? Is there any amount, however much, that is spent on local self-government in all municipalities in KIM territory, should there be a reason to undo the electoral will of citizens and to introduce a forced administration? In fact, to admit indirectly that these municipalities are no longer part of the Republic of Serbia. Are you aware of what you are doing in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? One simple question – when there is a local election, let it be in 2012, if they are not before the time, does that mean, Mr. Minister, that you will only call the election for part of KIM? What are you going to do then with these six municipalities where you now say there shouldn't be local authorities the way the citizens of these municipalities chose them? Are you making any good neighbourly relations with the false state of Kosovo more openly and openly, or possibly, the secession of the work of KIM? I didn't connect this for no reason, because there are students from those parts of Serbia who are studying in preschools with KIM. They've been moved there and their parent books, etc., so I don't know why it's a problem to have their local self-government moved? The position of the SRS is, and it was said by colleagues who spoke of this bill, that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure because it means nothing. It's only going to be one of a series of laws, a few hundred how many you've adopted, which doesn't essentially mean anything, but to brag about how you stand up to the laws as if we're working on a tape. You, Mr. Minister, need to really implement a reform of higher education and not only higher education, to free yourself of the inheritance of more Gaša Knezevic, not to accept at all costs what you have obtained in your legacy and think enough that this bad law is essential that the law on higher education is poor, dangerous, that it does not give up enough education, that young people who will finish colleges under that law will not be good enough experts, that now that you stop them that the principle of higher education and national tradition, that through education they will give up and that national which, I am confident, every young man in Serbia carries in themselves, first of all, from the house, so you must put it all out of strength, to restore education, Mr. Minister. You and I both graduated from college. I claim to have been educated enough, that I learned a lot at my university. If you can say that for yourself, then I don't see where the problem is in that earlier way of studying and why they had to make such drastic changes to happen in this law. So, don't implement the reform because you change the number of points, which you change one or two members of this bill, higher education reform is a much deeper, much wider and much more serious problem. You know, Mr. Minister, what DOS destroyed the factories is going to come up with some responsible government, they're going to build factories. The fact that some factories are criminally, from Sartid and beyond, privatized, some responsible authorities will come and put this seriously into consideration and correct these mistakes. So what's material can be compensated, even if it can't, is somehow survived without it. But the spiritual, educational destruction of the generation is a sin on the soul of those who carry it out, and that is, unfortunately, something that nothing can ever be compensated for. I repeat, as education from the time of Shuvarica cannot be compensated by anything, nothing will ever be able to compensate for the destroyed generations of young people you experiment on by applying the Bologna Declaration, I just don't know on behalf of what and in whose actual doing it all. So, Mr. Beard, I'm just reminding you to remember what your attitudes used to be. Apply them to the Law of Higher Education and you will have the support of the SRS. Obviously, you're not ready for this, but, believe me, because of your children, Mr. Obradovic, try to get your higher education back into the national frameworks and bring it back to the level that it once had.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42098	Eighteen minutes and 20 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has Minister of Education Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42099	My colleague, Radeta, thank you for this information. Since a good part of them comes out of the agenda of the topic today, and I must admit that some of them are not even true, and yet as Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I feel that both morally and professionally I should give answers to some of these questions that you have mentioned. Yesterday I was at a meeting organized by an organization that is trying to help our students who are enrolled in Cambridge. He talked to Mr. Sullivan, who's a professor with Cambridge and who wanted to come to Serbia and see this mathematical high school, to meet these people, it's a surprise for them that from one country from one school, a bachelor in one class seven students can enroll, pass admissions to Cambridge. Otherwise, at the moment there are 13 children from Serbia enrolled in the first year. The remaining six are from some other areas. Why am I bringing this up? Because it says that in our imperfect education system, we have fantastic children and obviously there is one system that should be a good example for others of how within this imperfect system can be found and how to find a system that gives good results. As I was informed yesterday, if they gave me the wrong information, then I'm transferring it to you, it's not known in Cambridge's history that from one school, from one class, seven children managed to pass the admission exam. Cambridge is an institution for itself and worthy of itself. There's no God here, we can think whatever we want, but that's a value and an indicator for others. Why am I saying this? Because our education system isn't as weak as it wants to be, and it's not as good as we'd like it to be. On the one hand, we have great children from mathematics, information, astronomy, physics, who have achieved great results in regional, European, Olympic and world competitions for the last four years. I spoke to the director of high school last night. Today on the Committee, thanks to the members of the Committee and Professor Shami, we will have the pleasure of talking to talented children. I listened to a high school director who's just now expecting a medal harvest at the Olympics. So we have kids who get good results, and that's where they see the progress to be done. However, we have the other side of the picture, which is that in various international knowledge checks, our children show poor results and show lag behind colleagues from other EU-wide countries. It is quite logical, if we want to be part of this European space, we should apply what is good and with them and keep what is good with us. You mentioned high school, although they have nothing to do with the subject on the agenda today, I have to say that last year 85% of children entered one of the first three of their wishes and that this way of checking the knowledge of boys and girls on a qualification exam was established years ago and that's the system that's been established and it's changing. This is the last generation to pass this way. Last year we introduced a little paper and it turned out to be good. Next year it won't exist, it's a small graduation, and then it's gonna be a big graduation. We'll prepare both parents and students and children. Why? Because change is part of life. Nothing was the same as ten, twenty or thirty years ago. You don't need to remind me of your political views, but to remind you that this law was passed in 2005. It was brought by the minority government of Vojislav Kostunica, and then I voted as a Socialist for this law. Mr. Gassa Knezevic has nothing to do with this law, because at the time, the government was neither responsible nor responsible for it. We've made changes to this law. In 2006, it began to apply. We've made changes to the extent we want to improve the law. Maybe it's bad, maybe it's good. I'm sorry, we're not the only ones who are judging about this, but I'm telling you that we have a list of the entire working group file that suggested it. No offense, but these are people from the university, everyone, students and the National High Education Council, and the Accreditation Commission. So someone within the higher education system is talking about it, and if they think together that some solutions are good, making any other decision that's the opposite, it's actually working against them. What nobody's talking about, it's a question of the quality we need to get to. I'm going back to high school. At the level of secondary and higher education, my colleague Radet, you know it well, it's not a problem from today, but perhaps from the 50s, the 60s, they can't all write down what they want. Well, in my day, 30 and a few years ago, it was known, and then there was a number of students who could get into college, you passed receptions and you signed up, you didn't get accepted, you were looking for a second college, so you're going to Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis. Some headed towards Skopje, both towards Zagreb, and towards Sarajevo, towards Ljubljana. It was then part of a uniquely educated space. No one could have written exactly what they wanted. That's the situation today. Now there are standards with us and others, and those who show knowledge, they type, and those who do not show, they write something else. There is a question of the goal of these young generations. At the level of secondary education, I tell you one more time, 85% of children enrolled the desired schools in relation to the results not only achieved on the exam, but also based on the average score in the sixth, seventh and eighth grade. In the past seven years, we have introduced 62 tours from 12 different areas at secondary education level and, in our opinion, improved the system, but the system cannot be improved unless the whole situation improves in the country and the economic situation. I say this very honestly, clearly and publicly, because there is no education system that can fully respond to the needs of the state, if the state is not yet stable as it should be, if the economy is not what they would like, if we inherited problems from the past, so we haven't eliminated them, if we don't invest in education as much as we should. The King's problem, it doesn't need to be politicized, everyone knows and knows there's no room and there's only room for two classes. Now everyone who wants to be there, it's human, natural, parenting, but tomorrow the same other journalist will come and say, wait for the people, what are you thinking, you're getting 70 kids to deal with only this area, because the Employment Service and the National Service will say they've been waiting for years at work. Then the Ministry will be responsible again, because it has no plans to make class evaluations, etc. Every year when children are enrolled in the first class, we also consult the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and the National Employment Service, the Union of Employers of Serbia and local self-government. I said Saturday night on a national TV, that according to information I have that's the problem of space. Meanwhile, I heard from my colleague Lazarevic, who is in charge of the professional secondary education sector, that information is correct and the director did not act correctly when he said he had space, he went, as the people would say, down the hair of his parents. There's no room. Whether you could get space, that's another question, but there's no room for all the kids, otherwise you'd be sitting on each other's heads. They know it well. It's not just the middle of it. Why are we making the schedule and structure of the department by profession, by sight, rather than trying to meet as many children as possible? I have to tell you, when it comes to attractive occupations, children first opt for tours, because they want to end up looking at four years and find work as fast as they can. It's medicine, then economics, then high school. It's some order of schools within the structure of children who enroll in secondary education. And they're committed to what they're interested in, and they can't all get together, I'd love to, but there's no ideal system in the world, not in Serbia, but in the world that all of them can get out as much as they want. Why is there a man's right to decide his fate? Because someone wants to study it, and you talk to them, but you study tones you can get a job, he says, what do you care about my job, I want to study it, and I want to do it, I want to do it. The question of whether the state can provide him with jobs is which objectively remains unresolved. The state can't meet all the wishes it wants at the same time. The question is, what the state can do, and everyone has to think about what they want to sign up for. I'm not saying this by accident. We at the Ministry have said multiple times, at the Ministry of Education and the Accreditation Commission, there is a list of colleges that are accredited. I call on students and parents to think about it and not to enroll in colleges that are not accredited. There's a logical question, if he doesn't sign up for a college that's not accredited, which is thinking about enrolling something that's not accredited, I don't understand. Does it count on something third, fourth, fifth that's supposed to happen in the meantime, that someone's amenating? All will pass the accreditation process, over 2,000 programs have been accredited. The accreditation commission has done a very, very good job for Serbia's higher education system. We finally have the same criteria for everything, the other thing is how anybody behaves in practice. The same criteria for everything, the same standards and the same system of values, so whoever passes, passes, and whoever doesn't pass, look for a second chance. That's not unknown. We will re-publish the list of those colleges that are accredited so that neither children nor parents can be led astray. I saw that the amendment was accepted to increase the level of bank guarantees, as a guarantee that the state, in relation to some private higher education institutions, has the guarantee that children should be taken care of, if anything happens to that institution. One essential thing about higher education, believe it or not, but I really ask you to pay attention to what I'm about to say, 47 countries in Europe are creating a European space for higher education, 27 EU member states and 20 that are not. Russia, too, is in the process of Turkey, other non-EU countries are in the process, but have different relations with EU member states. It's a process that was initiated more than a decade ago and that's not necessarily a character, but they're involved in it. Why? Well, they want to make their children passables, maybe get a chance to have our child work there for bigger money, a better standard of living and that, but everyone's trying to be part of it, and it's not mandatory. Imagine something when it's mandatory, so it won't, and this isn't mandatory, so everybody will. Now we have to say, we won't. I don't understand what logic is. I'm not defending any of the predecessors. I'm defending the system. Why not create a chance for children to be part of the European higher education area and to continue studying tomorrow in Florence, Madrid or Helsinki or to enroll studies in any of these countries that create a European space of higher education. Why not, or doctoral studies. Quality? It's a special question, quality, it's a system of state itself, as we make a quality system. I'm saying this because our universities in Southeast Europe were a concept of quality and we want to go back to that tradition again, to be even better than before and to form our own system. I thank you for the criticism of Article 4, but in the meantime we have changed it, we have accepted the amendment of colleagues Petronivic and Miletic Mihajlovic, and that amendment was given similar to your colleagues Mijailovic and colleagues from DS and DSS, it seems to me that we have returned to that specific that stood in the previous text. There's no such thing as fear. There's no concern at all if colleges take care of it. Why? They make their own programs, they write their own textbooks and teach themselves. What you need to be afraid of, I really don't see a reason. We have these intellectual potentials and so many people with great biography of science who publish their articles and works in world-famous magazines, and now we have to be afraid of someone on the side. For what? It's completely irrational for me. It provides an opportunity for promotion and our education, both our countries and them individually. Why should we be afraid of that? Whether a university will work more or less, whether it or not, and how it will treat students, whether students will be part of the education system in a way that they learn only to get a job, and not to realize that diploma is obtained and after what it is, it is a system of values in society and we have to work objectively on it. You're right, the law changes for the second or third time in a few years. I have to tell you, we're going out to meet the demands and the academic public. Students and protests go to some of their own time. Sometimes they're in agreement with what we're doing, and sometimes they're not. I remind you, since I've experienced it twice in these two years, when we changed the Law on Higher Education in October 2008, some students demonstrated it in front of the National Assembly in the lower room and then they said, "What are you changing the law to us in the middle of the deadline?" Well, if we hadn't changed the law, we wouldn't have entered a year, so we're trading because of them. Some of them weren't interested, just like last year. They asked for points. One year you're learning, two years you're learning, three years you're not studying at all, and you're looking for credit from previous years to give you the opportunity to sign this one up, and the one who's been studying all year, he's got less and he can't enroll. The system should be as righteous as possible, and the state should meet the students as much as possible. We've accepted a proposal from students and academics to make 48 points this year and next year, and everyone's wrong about students if they think getting more exam deadlines is a winner. No, I don't. The winner is the one who wants to learn, but also in life, you always have those who want to learn and those who want to learn less and get a degree. Those who want to learn, they use all the benefits that the state gives, and credit, and home, and scholarship and later other kinds of support of the state, and progress. Those who meet a certain one, which is part of their life ambitions, you can't help them more than they want to help themselves. Here's what we're talking about, we're building a system and the system isn't being built overnight, and it's not going to be done at all, all of what we've been saying, believe it or not, is going to be part of some new solutions that will be in higher education. We also need political stability, no matter who the minister is, as well as consent. I think that over the past year in this house, we have had a very correct debate about higher education and there have been a lot of great suggestions, suggestions, advice on how to shape higher education. I'm telling you, this doesn't have an objective alternative, unless Europe falls apart, and that higher education area, so somebody's gonna say, I was right. What in the meantime? In the meantime, what about higher education, what about kids? What about our country if we pretend we're smarter than the others, so we go to some of our own during the main matrix that's already going. I saw two years ago, and I allow myself to be wrong, but then I saw Australia wanting to be a leader in southwestern Asia, so 23 countries gather that space in Melbourne to do something similar to Bologna. American colleagues discuss Bologna not from the point of view of content, because I am all real, but from the point of view of the number of states and the number of inhabitants who make up that space. Everyone has their own strategic stuff, like India, like Russia. They say the largest number of PhDs in America are from India, Russia, China, and only then are the Americans. But higher education is part of a system that's being made. We have proposed these changes with the intention of improving the system, and then in two years, because we have a great work group material, to introduce many newspapers that have been said about here, but which at this point cannot be implemented, and about regulated professions, and about master studies of vocational studies and perhaps about extraordinary studies, about the mass of other things, because this implies a number of changes in the system that cannot be done now. Why? Because there are standards that are part of the accreditation system and quality checks. If we were to make these changes now, we would practically bring down the whole system, whatever it is, and we weren't misjudged. I remind you, we got 3.8 in Luven among 46 countries. That's a very good grade. We'd get even more if our two reports were evaluated in time, but they weren't. All right, don't be pretentious. Previously on "The Four"... it seems to me, in London in 2007. It was a projection back then. So, from the projected one, we did 3.8. There is no reason to be so dissatisfied with our education system, and there is reason to be dissatisfied with the quality of certain higher education institutions. I'm very aware of the quality of certain higher education institutions. But the quality of some should not be transferred to the entire system of higher education, because many colleges work great, many kids are great students, they also write down when they want to continue master and doctoral studies with ease to be accepted at other universities around the world and it speaks of the quality that we possess, and somewhere you simply don't have. However you turn, we're really trying to make the system. One question about KIM. Kola Bogdanovic, a colleague of Tomica Milosavljevic and I are jointly trying to solve a problem that is not ours, but the government's problem. It is true that there are our people who receive personal incomes from the institutions of that so-called. the countries of Kosovo. But that's not the problem of any ministry, it's part of the government's policy. That's what I said in public a few months ago, and that's where we have to bring the strategy to know what we want. By the way, as far as this is concerned, I absolutely think the decision to form is more justified. Why? Because in KIM, we have respected colleagues and colleagues, one paradoxical situation. The country's huge money is being given to Kosovo, and it is not being divided evenly among all our people. It's not a split, it's some people's money, and some people have nothing. That's why my colleague Bogdanovic suggested this solution, because if they're not down there, and you don't know where they are, unless you have to raise your salary first, then the question is, what is the point of giving that kind of money when you don't have any results? I guess the essence of the existence is the organization of people, the organisation of local life, the keeping of relationships between them, and not just – come first to sign the bill and take the money. I'm telling you, the huge money the state gives, over 500 million euros, that was last year, respected colleagues. Compared to the number of people, it's an average scary. But when you look down at these people, they say, "Wait, we don't even get a dinar." Then the question arises – where does this money go? He's going through some other streams, and the state isn't going to go through other streams, but to go through regulated flows and to get as many people as possible that money. There's really not a word about other things. So, some of what you've said we've already accepted, and you shouldn't be worried about it, unless some high school facility simply makes its own program a measure of its own interest, so not including, for example, the elements of the national tradition. If she doesn't, it's a matter of her choice, because academic programs are made autonomously within every higher school facility. As for us and the contents of this law, we think we've accepted a lot of quality things, simply that we've made the law better and this story will not end today, neither tomorrow nor the day after. We've already announced that it would be logical in a year or two to pass a new law, to evaluate this one, then to take one step forward because they keep changing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42100	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42101	I will begin, Minister, from this last remark of yours regarding KIM. It's a good thing you've noticed that money in KIM isn't being spent the way it should, or not being followed by money flows, as you say, but that's no reason to abolish local self-government in Metohija. You need to take care of it and where money is spent, and you need lists of people who receive money on KIM, who buys heat, how they spend it, it's a public secret on the entire KIM that all manipulations happen with these money. That, I repeat, is no reason for you to abolish local self-government in the part of KIM, because it is against the constitution, it is the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. I found your objection interesting when you said – if the EU fails, and we say when the EU fails, because it is already certain, what will happen to our education if we do not get into the routine of the Bologna Declaration? Minister, someone who's not from here would think that we've just started school since the Bologna Declaration was introduced and that only since then we have an education system, which you know is not true. As it is not true that at the time you mentioned when you were studying, when I was studying, not everyone could have enrolled in college. He could, and he should, and now he has to enroll, each one of them enrolls in a college on state spending and the one who wants to, and if he shows after the first year of his studies that he has no will, no desire, no meaning, then he should be educated in his own expense, that is, the expense of his parents. You say our colleges were once among the first in the world. That's what I told you. That's why we're wondering why you're going to destroy it. Why wouldn't they still be among the first colleges, even if the Bologna Declaration hadn't been introduced? I found it interesting, Mr. Minister, as if you were talking about a country of dembelia, not Serbia, where you get fired every day, where young people can't get a job. You were talking about how the state provides work, how you're in contact with companies before making plans for admissions to both high school and colleges to provide jobs for these young people. It is the job of the state, but unfortunately, the state of Serbia does not. How many young people are on the jobless list? How many young people finished colleges and got disappointed because they haven't been able to get a job in years. Do you remember that young man who was a great student at medical school, graduated from medical school, and went to the white world somewhere to work, because in Serbia he couldn't get a job, so he had to go back to Serbia to finish medical school in order to start there somewhere as a medical technician, so maybe one day he was a doctor? Is that what we want from our generations to do or do we want our children to learn in Serbia and work in Serbia? That's the ideal for every government to pursue, including your government? You say – 85% enrolled in the desired schools in high schools. What about the 15%? Mr. Minister, don't say it that way - you finished the job because 85% of the children wrote down what they wanted. Are those 15% who didn't want to sign up elsewhere? Will he have one year like these Kings children? You heard it yourself. I watched it on TV, it's not a political story, it's a fact that you've now confirmed. So if those kids say their parents are going to have a break this year, they're not going to sign up anywhere at all, you know, lose a year of life, lose a year where they can go some wrong way, don't God forbid they go to school. You know, Minister, what you're saying is you've consulted some kind of working group, university professors, etc. In this law, the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The RS government must be able to make a bill. Whomever he consults is a matter of government, but it is the responsibility of the government, not those people who are whether experts or not, or are self-called experts. You know, you have to admit that doesn't mean that all university professors, teachers with credibility. I don't mean to offend anyone, but let's just say we all know about Professor Stevan Lilić, who's a proven plagiarizer, and that was on the ad board. (President: National MPs, please choose your words more carefully, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if you wish to disqualify and insult and to remember that it is forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. ) I agree, Mrs. Comic, but I am talking about a judicial verdict by the Supreme Court, which can be quoted. But, well, Stevan Liliæ doesn't matter. He will be questioned on the subject of involvement in these privatisations that have been written about these days, which we have been talking about for days. The problem, Mr. Minister, that you presented when it comes to colleges and colleges that follow – you say the difficult economic situation, inherited, uninherited, corrected, uncorrected. Do you think, Mr. Minister, that this difficult economic situation in the state and in colleges should be solved by parents of children who are to be enrolled in colleges? How is a parent, whose child is below the line at the Faculty of Architecture, talented, eager to study architecture, to pay for, I think, 200, and I don't know how many thousands of dinars to enroll or at the Faculty of Medicine 150,000 dinars? Minister, you have to make sure that every child can enroll in college, not just children of parents who have a lot of money. Is it possible for you to imagine that the average family in Serbia can pay their excellent student, a talented child, who for some reason did not have enough points to enter the Medical Faculty, but is below the line, to pay 150,000 dinars to enroll the university, and parents have either lost their jobs or work for a salary of 15,000 dinars? Minister, it's a great sin against these young people. The state has to take care of that. Believe me, this isn't a demagogy. This is something that both young people and their parents are obsessed with these days. Imagine children under such pressure, who go to the entrance exam in fear – what if I'm below the line, my parents won't be able to pay my tuition, what am I going to do with my life? With that kind of pressure on that kid, that young man is going to the entrance exam. It's hard to expect that he can pass it very well. That's why we claim that admission exams are unnecessary and that they shouldn't exist. In the end, what you said at the beginning, we're not surprised that those Cambridge experts said they were surprised that seven students from one school had such results to enroll in Cambridge. As you say, we have fantastic children. That's what we've been saying from the beginning. That's what I said in the first part of my presentation, yes, we have fantastic children, smart, hardworking, who want to be educated, and the state has to allow everyone to be educated, not only in secondary education, but also in higher education, not in the price of prestige, who has money can, and who doesn't have money can't. That's all I ask of the government on behalf of all these young people and their parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42102	Nine minutes of MP time was used. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42103	My colleague Radeta, we are going far beyond the scope of the debate on this law, but I cannot leave the public, not you, because I know that you know that, without an answer. According to what you're saying, a man would say that the state is doing nothing, that he's a passive observer. Why are there qualifications exams? Why do they exist at first grade high school and college level? In order to see the level of knowledge, because in some schools you have all the great grades, so you take an average of the sixth, seventh, eighth, plus his knowledge that shows up, and then you give children the opportunity to write down a list of their wishes, and compared to the knowledge they show and the desire that they show the appropriate school. You said that children can't enroll in the desired school, and I'm telling you that they can, 85% enroll, and those 15% don't have the right knowledge of what they want. It's a gap between desire and opportunity. It's not unknown. It's just a question of how it's received. If I told you about how many students, and we talked about the law on student and student standards, the state is giving out money, and it can't be ignored. Obviously this conversation is in some parts of the deaf, because I'm telling you one thing, you're using another. Here's the point of working together to create a system of higher education that will be of quality. No offense, the people who worked and helped us make this proposal, and the responsibility is ours, are people with exceptional scientific and human credibility. I wouldn't dare question any of them. How about that, no offense, that's your thing, but the bottom line is that people have made significant suggestions to improve the system of higher education. The assembly will make a special assessment of this, as it always does, and we are trying to make this law as good as possible, for the sake of higher education, including teachers and students and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42104	Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 26th amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42105	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, first of all, by the way, I am more than convinced that in the future Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, each Proposer should be limited in discussion for a reasonable period of time. The amendment to Article 26 is the consequence of the amendments that we have submitted to Article 19. I will remind my fellow MPs that it is a member who has finally adopted a two-year-old DSS initiative to question who will study at the expense of the budget, and who will pay for their own studies in a better and fairer way. In that sense, we are pleased that this basic idea has entered into this law. However, we felt that this idea should be better realized and therefore we submitted the amendment to Article 19. This amendment to Article 26. is only due to the amendment to Article 19. Since the amendment was not heard to be accepted, I do not see that I now need to re-propose Mr. and Minister to explain the reasons why the amendment was to be accepted. Finally, since this is the last amendment that the DSS has submitted, there is another one that is technically, which is understandablely accepted, let me make one final recapitulation. So, the DSS, its legislator's club has completely open-mindedly adopted the bill, because we think it's perfectly normal that after a few years of applying one serious law, which deals with such an area as higher education, there is a need for the law to be complemented, repaired, removed those shortcomings which the practice above all proved to be shortcomings, and in that sense we have submitted 18 amendments to this text of the law. Unfortunately, only three were accepted and I would say three technical amendments. Of the other 15 amendments, I must admit, there was only one political nature. It was a matter related to one, in our opinion, the uncontrollable giving of authority, the transfer of power to the authorities of the AP. The DSS has an essentially different view than the ruling majority, and it is perfectly understandable to me that the draft law did not accept that amendment, but I find it completely incomprehensible why the remaining 14 amendments, which were exclusively and only in their best intentions and the desire to correct the text and to in some way implement some ideas that are otherwise spinning in this bill, did not adopt. I would say that it proved that the Serbian government did not accept the amendment completely open-minded compared to what we have proposed with a completely open-minded mind. It is clear that after what I said, unfortunately, the DSS will not be able to support this law. I think the possibility of the law being better quality was dropped and it was completely unnecessary. I don't see any valid reason, or even a political reason, why that is. So in voting day, the DSS won't support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42106	Two minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42107	I must say, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it seems to me that in these few days we have shown our willingness to accept all amendments that, in our opinion, improve the text of the law. I don't think the DSS, or any of the other parties whose amendments we haven't accepted, have any reason to give that attitude any additional assessments that don't stand in our way. I mention this, Professor Shami, because it is your right to state your political party's position, that you feel satisfied or dissatisfied and that you define yourself to vote, but I was also offered a formula issued by counterpart Donka Banovic on Thursday afternoon at the end, so I didn't have time to answer, that I allegedly deliberately commented on the DSS amendments, which is absolutely not true. I have commented on the DSS amendments as well as on any other amendment. When you were right, I said – you were right, when you were wrong – you were wrong. When that amendment is in the spirit of the text of the law, we accept it, and when it isn't, we don't accept it and there's nothing wrong with it. No offense, I didn't want to accept in your amendments what didn't stand. No offense, this law began to apply in 2006, 2007 and 2008, then you were in power for two years and you could change it if you noticed that it showed poor results in application. You did it in 2008 and I explained it. Right, the amendment around the students existed then, but now he's got another dimension. You insist on a total of years ago, and we don't think that's good, and I've explained why I don't think that's good. There's nothing wrong with that. If I used any hard words, I apologize. But it seems to me that the debate we had in previous days on the content of this law has shown a serious tone of the Assembly where high education is discussed. You will see, after Thursday, I have been checking the contents of an amendment by the Parliament group in front of Serbia, I have found that they are right and I have asked my colleagues to make amends to the amendment in order to adopt it on behalf of the government, in order for the law to be better. So, later on, I don't have anything apriori negative for any MP group, just looking at the content of the amendments. I'm not at all arguing that some of these solutions you've now made will be part of some future law, but at this point through these changes, they are not the place to improve the content of this law, in our opinion. There is nothing but, in our opinion, one correct and principled attitude regarding the content of the law. As far as Vojvodina is concerned, we are only complying with the provisions of this law with the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42108	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42109	Mr. Minister, you're absolutely right about one thing. These amendments are no good to you. That doesn't mean it's some universal universal universal court, it's just in your opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42110	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42111	I'm the promoter, I'm the grader. As you think your amendment is a super amendment, I don't think so. Remember, this is a parliamentary life, everyone has the right to an opinion, and the congregation majority makes decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42112	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has a word, so the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42113	Ladies and gentlemen, this article wants to increase the criteria of studies, i.e. by increasing the criteria, to increase the quality. Mr. Minister, I've prepared a lot of questions, but I must honestly say that in the previous 15-minute presentation you've answered a lot of questions, but I'm still going to stick to something, like you said, so it's not a topic today, it's a subject of the proposal for a law on higher education, but you know that secondary education is actually a cornerstone of higher education. Since you said to contact local self-government, contact the Employment Service, contact people from the economy, where these people are needed tomorrow when finishing their colleges so they can start their work. You say you get certain instructions from them, or some consent with them, but I don't see where the economy is so active in this country that we can hire this number of professional people. We're talking about people who are extracurricular talent. About two months ago, I was at the Institute of Science and Engineering in London, where about 25 of our experts were there, and they didn't go across the state, but they self-initiatedly came to these research centres, because these research centres don't exist with us. Unfortunately, colleges were once the first to have their own research centres, but today there are no research centres, there is no work on these research centres, because where and who these research centres will work for certain projects, when you know well that the economy does not work, or scientific research centres that do not actually exist. We gave 12.5 billion euros to the world because we sent our experts to the world, which is certainly not coming back. Every young man I've contacted at that research institute has had one great desire to go back to the country, but he asks me what is the situation, what is the economy? I had to honestly say that they don't have their perspective here so they can continue their research work. So I'm asking you another way of studying and studying, when we know that enrollment in state colleges is at a certain financial cost for self-financing, especially for funding at certain private colleges? Who and how does it determine who owns it, who owns one college? We know that Ljubisa Chume owns the university. Who gave him a protected witness that he could own this scientific institution that is most important and important to me in this system? I know you as a great anti-corruption and crime fighter, the first to reveal what happened at Sartide. I ask you -- why is this crime and corruption still present in education today? I know it's very hard to find out, I don't put it on your mind, that black fund exams are also taking place, and individuals are buying those exams. How and in what way do we prevent, and we know that in certain colleges, college colleagues know which one of these people sells, which one of these people wants to buy, and which one of these people gets that dirty capital in this way? Who today in one country doesn't like to improve work, improve the impact of working on all these universities, who doesn't want to get close to the West, Europe, America and all the many industrialally developed countries? Normally, he'd be foolish if he didn't want his children well, if he didn't want his nation well, but we must primarily think of ourselves and ask others to help you. There are many undiscovered talents. You know how, maybe the one who keeps sheep in the mountain, maybe at a given moment and smarter than me and you, but he didn't have the opportunity to come to get this education at a given time. So, as a great fighter, as an honest and honest man, I think you'll do best to have this institution enjoy its great reputation which, I know, 15 years ago or 10 years ago enjoyed, but unfortunately the erosion itself has contributed to this happening in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42114	Six minutes of time used by the parliamentary group. Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42115	Comrade Zivanovic, thank you for this information. I just want to say a few words. When it comes to the establishment of higher education institutions, the whole process is carried out on the basis of standards established by the National Council for Higher Education, the Accreditation Commission, and we give permission to work as Ministry of Education. When the Founder changes, the Founder is legally required to inform us. We didn't get any official information about the founder's change. Only the media wrote about the change of founders related to Syngidunum University, but we as the Ministry did not receive any official act of such character. Another thing I wanted to tell you, in order to prevent any, in order to say, illegalities at all universities in the higher education of the Republic of Serbia, there are things that are the subject of the prosecution, police and criminal proceedings, there are things that are the subject of an ethical committee, I know that most universities have set up an ethical committee. I know that, for example, Belgrade University now has ombudsmans on these issues, Professor Branko Rakic, from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade is an ombudsman, and I know that there are, as they would say, a lot of work, that certain things that appear as problematic in higher education solve, to say, in accordance with the law, the mutual satisfaction of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42116	The word is from Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42117	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been closely following a few days of debate on the Law on the University and through discussions of my fellow Members, we are very often hearing several thesis that are being repeated. One of them is that the best people in Serbia are leaving the country and are found in some institutes in the white world. There were recent floods in the Shop, and here was the flood at my place in Racine County, and there's one law of God to get the water first, and then the water comes in, and then the water retreats. However, a river flows through Serbia all the time, a river of people from Pomorava, from the Shop, Kruševac, Čačka, Užica, Leskovec flows to Belgrade and here enters the university and rarely comes back to his hometown. Serbia's best, unfortunately, continues to leave. Here is the question – how to stop and how to prevent the best people from leaving? Would Nikola Tesla have become Nikola Tesla if he had stayed in the village of Smiljani? Would Nikola Tesla be who he is if he hadn't gone to America? I doubt he'd become who he is. Would Mihajlo Pupin, if he had stayed in Serbia, have developed his talent and his abilities here? The fate not only of Serbia, but of all countries, is that the best if they want to be the best must go to the best institutions, where all knowledge and experience are concentrated. Our job as a politician is to ensure the conditions for graduate engineers, people who have graduated from colleges, to return to their places and get into the business of affirmation. I think at least four-fifths of the MPs in this room have graduated from college. The vast majority of us returned to their hometown and gained full affirmation there. When we talk about one more thing here, about the accreditation of the university, there were words, and that's what Mr. Obradovic answered very nicely, everyone in Serbia today can join together, we can join the funds, get involved and try to form a higher education facility, but before that we have to ask permission for accreditation from the Ministry of Education. If we want to sell our founding role to someone else the next day, we have to report it to the Accreditation Commission and get her to sign up for new founders. As far as I know, I don't know it's done. If there are doubts that this has been done, let someone look into certain registers, ask for a college check, but until it's done, it's not good to handle semi-information and to deceive the public. On the other hand, there are hundreds of young, capable, gifted students at the university. The state of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia has evened out the status of private and state colleges, and let's not let the people who graduate from that university and who are now in that university degrade these statements, study with a criminal and buy diplomas there. Please, let's talk about the actual state of affairs in the country with arguments and that young people who might be planning to enroll in some college don't make it any more difficult to work at a time when they're going to identify which college they're going to enroll.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42118	Three minutes and 45 seconds used by the MPs' group. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miletic Mihajlovic and Milisav Petronijevic. This amendment was accepted by the Government and the Education Committee. The Legislative has not been declared, so this, as well as other amendments, will be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is from Ambassador Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, Your Honor, Mr Minister, we have tabled an amendment to Article 27(3). For the sake of the public, I'm going to read what that attitude refers to, so I'm going to say after the argument. This point 3 reads: The person referred to in Article 2 of this Article may ask the higher education institution in which it has been designated as having, in accordance with this law, in accordance with the procedure and under the conditions laid down in the general act of the higher education institution, it shall determine that the previously acquired name corresponds to one of the names of the Member of this Act. We ask that this attitude be erased. We think it's too high. Why? Since Article 27(1) clearly states that all professional academic, scientific names acquired under the rules until the entry into force of this law in respect of both rights and obligations and all arising from this law are equated with relevant professional, academic and other titles. You said in attitude one that all these scientific and academic professional references acquired in the previous match and then taxed ranks, not to comment on them. We think this should be deleted. You are in the argument not to accept the amendment said that the amendment should not be accepted for the reason why the proposed solution allows, when necessary, the interested person to replace the previously acquired diploma. We think as SNS that one law must be clear, strict and respectable. What's the point of respecting? If you have given attitude one that previous knowledge is equal to the present, what does that mean – when it is necessary? Is anyone now willing to take a new degree or will a private or state employer ask for a new degree? This could result in a bad situation, in our opinion, that a chain reaction would be created, that a candidate or an employer would seek a new degree by his will, but that a chain reaction and an attack on the colleges for the publishing of new diplomas would take place. Now it's a technical problem that can happen, but it's the smallest. In this way a small and insecure individual is created in a previously acquired diploma, and we as a state, and you as a Government, that we have a respect for a very high-quality, previously organised higher education, which for a certain time according to these doctrinal approaches has functioned and that we do not thus give the possibility that by replacing a diploma individuals take diplomas for some groundless unargumented reasons. Because this can get a connotation, and the state has to respect the previous system and when you clearly say in law and attitude it's an even diploma, the state must not allow a single person to replace a diploma or an employer. This respects, respects and respects the tradition of previous higher education that would be of quality. For those reasons, we'll see if we're right, but that's our argument, so we think this is a good idea in essence. But, learned by practical experience, these two moments can in the future get some bad connotations that are unnecessary, because everything is said in this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42120	Two minutes and 10 seconds used by the MP's group. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 28th amendment, with a correction, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted. The government and the Education Committee have not declared themselves correcting the June 21st amendments. Anyone else want a word? National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42121	This amendment to Article 28 should show that when we care about people and justice, they are not in the first place any personal impatience or even formal procedure. In her name, the SNS and I submitted an amendment that we wanted to precisely create a link between those persons who were in the Master's Studies of Glasses or who would get a call, and that they could continue their doctoral studies, and in the deadlines and the way that the bill's proposer predicted it. We didn't think it was clear enough for a member of the law to change. We intervened in the amendment, and so I did a little prematurely in the establishment the other day insisting, that in order to be just, this amendment does not receive tomorrow some instruction for use or opinion, but rather that we put it into law, because we allow someone from the most honorable intentions to pass, for example, all exams, and then let Jelena or Milena stop due to birth, family or medical care for the old parent, so that today she can continue. That some young, hardworking people who passed part of the exams, the rest of them didn't, now they realize that the paper is not just paper, but the form of a magistrate and a doctor will be respected in this country and they need to make sure they finish it. It was up to us to make that happen. I would really ask the minister to adopt an amendment to Article 28, because as I thought he was in the spirit of the law, but if this is one more precise interpretation, it really contributes to a fairer application of this law, where also those who write it, the second time, I think of other laws, will be completely clear and accurate, so that we do not dispute and spend time on whether this amendment should be adopted. Once again, I insist that we talk about problems, not people. The most important thing is to solve the problem, i.e. to make it impossible for someone to discretionaryly interpret a member of the law to leave someone damaged in what is most valuable, which is to gain the right to a formal title, and behind that is already knowledge and will to end it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42122	45 seconds of MP time used. Education Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42123	I must say that after consulting my colleagues from the Ministry and the Secretariat of the Legislatives, we have defined that it is better to accept the amendment than to use that earlier formulation to imply and to leave it at the interpretation of higher education institutions and to perhaps prevent someone from reaching a higher level of scientific calling and to continue their studies. The government accepts an amendment with a correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42124	I find that on behalf of the Government, a representative of the motionor has accepted the amendment. The National Assembly will declare its amendment in the voting day. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Since we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee, we will declare it in the voting day. The 30th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is from Ambassador Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these last two amendments, this amendment to Article 30 and 31, I will comment on, so that we no longer take time for MPs or ministers. In essence, both of these amendments relate to our amendment to Article 3 concerning the introduction of this initial accreditation. A detailed explanation of why we submitted the amendment to it last Thursday, so I wouldn't take the time to repeat the story that we explained at the time. These two amendments, that it was adopted, that there was no initial accreditation, practically and these members concerned with establishing standards and that, in the end, those accreditation procedures under the regulations were absolutely bound. By failing to adopt this amendment to Article 3, these amendments are virtually unnecessary. We believe that the amendment to Article 3 should have been adopted. We made that clear. These two amendments were to be adopted, they were not adopted. So much as a commentary, since we spoke in more detail last Thursday, I'm not repeating myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42126	The 31st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment, and the National Assembly will declare itself in the voting day. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular whether the Proposer's representative wants a final word, as referred to in Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42127	I thank you, Mrs Comic, and other colleagues in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all MPs and MPs who participated in the debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. I would like to ask them to understand why some amendments have been accepted, or why some have not. It is either the conceptal reasons or the fact that these proposals were not simply the subject of amendments to the Higher Education Act at this point. I am fully convinced that these changes will improve the content of the law and improve higher education. Secondly, I urge you to support this bill in the voting day, so that all the people in higher education, and first the students know what awaits them in the next exam deadlines, to prepare themselves in time for what awaits them, and that is to learn to pass the exams.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42128	Before I conclude a review of the bill's proposal in particular, MP Goran Mihajlovic was registered in the electronic system. You have no right to have a word. Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly make it clear that, following the completion of the draft law in particular, only the proposing representative has the right to receive the word. I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Before we determine the break and completion of the morning work, on the basis of Article 85(5), I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1800 hours, until the end of the search in the details of the point that at that moment is the subject of our work. I'm setting a break now. We continue work at 13.10 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42129	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin our afternoon work. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF COURT ACTIVITIES (single details) pursuant to Article 88(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, on the search in detail of the 4th item of the agenda, besides the representative of the promoter Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, has also called for the sittings to be attended by Zlatko Petrovic, head of justice. I would also like to inform you that the representatives of the parliamentary groups are MPs Sinisa Stamenkovic – the PUPS parliamentary group, MP Srdjan Spasojevic – the New Serbia MP, MP Judita Popovic – the LDP parliamentary group, MP Djordža Milicevic – the SPS-JS parliamentary group, MP Milica Radovic – the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, MP Sedlar – Parliament group G17 plus and MP Zoran Krasic – the SRS parliamentary group. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delic, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Pelevic, Mileta Posukurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Dejan Mirović, Mirko Čikiriz, Vladan Batić, Gordana Paunović Milosavljević, Marina Ragus, Milita Popović, Milica Radović, Milan Dimitrijević, Srđan Spasović, Zoran Šamić, Nesamić and Bosarović. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected, as an incomplete amendment to Article 6 submitted by MP Judita Popovic. On the basis of Article 148(3), Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. The National Assembly carried out a principle search and, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: I answered the word. () Have you reported on the amendment adopted that there is no debate or on what I am about to read? (Zoran Krasic, from the post: Next amendment. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42130	I would like to use the time of authorised representatives of the parliamentary group to address the adopted amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. It is not typical to explain it, but from that first amendment, it is essentially followed by all our amendments. Little wonder that some amendments were not only rejected, but not accepted by the promoter. Now I'm going to try to convince a government official why it is necessary for these amendments to be adopted, and perhaps it would be best if this law were back to work. It is short, but it has some fundamental shortcomings. The promoter didn't go far enough, or deep enough, or thoroughly enough to regulate this area, and she can identify herself with what you've already adopted, that these are artificial affairs. For the sake of the public, if you could understand how serious this subject is, I'd like to explain a little bit what that means. The artisan is essentially a means of proof. We're talking about an articulation when it comes to some court case, where it is necessary to establish some facts, and whoever judges, it is a judge, is not able to establish or not have the necessary knowledge to determine it and then the expert appears as a means of proof. Depending on how the means of evidence is observed, there are several legal systems that are artificial. In America, foreign parties agree on who's going to be an expert. A special debate is being held where a judge is being debated who could be an expert in determining a disputed fact, so the parties present their proposals, and somehow there are experts, something similar to when a grand jury is formed, where both sides are studying the credibility of potential jurors in order to remove any doubt about their objectivity and impartiality before the trial takes place. In the Anglo-Saxon system, you have a situation where you can determine an expert for anything and anything. Some times it's not just the dry facts, something that would be determined by measuring, but it's going a long way, and the witches are even some circumstances that aren't exactly facts. Now I would take the opportunity to explain what it might look like, in the Anglo-Saxon system is said to the expert – an expert witness, so if he's really extremely professional, he's not controversial about his credibility and his findings, then it's said to be an expert. If any doubt arises, they say he is a witness to facts, not even an expert in expertise. Just to remind you what it looks like in the Anglo-Saxon system. At this trial, Vojislav Seselj's first witness was the artist Antonio Obershal, the prosecution presented him as an expert in hate speech, he appeared in the courtroom and said – but I am not an expert in hate speech, it is a legal category, it is not determined, it is an assessment by the court. He says I'm just a witness expert in propaganda techniques. He gave his findings by taking several hundred books of Vojislav Seselj, several hundred of his speeches, transferred to English, and then with what "control F" sought some of the given concepts and based on it, otherwise a graduate physicist, 25 years studied the social structure of the tribal community in Africa, honorary doctor of sociology, teaching at Harvard, disaster of findings and opinion, to kill a man with laughter. He found his great expertise to show at Vojislav Seselj, he asked only nine questions by reshaping the charges and he always said – no, no, no. You are not, Mr. Seselj, you are not, Mr. Seselj etc. So an expert is needed to determine some facts that depend on the application of rights. As a rule, that's what we interpret as an expert who needs to find an opinion on material, immaterial damage or when someone has to perform something that has to do with health, so whether it's judicial medicine, whether it's a judicial psychiatry. But we also have some other artists. We have ballistics, we have an artist for something that has some effect value, let's say that we estimate the value of an image or a piece of art, etc. There's nothing exact about it, but it takes quality to be in that person who does the job. Why did I tell you all this? In order to see how pointless it is when someone says, the artist is appointed and resolved by the minister. He can only record. Do you know how pointless such a bill is, if you consider that it should be applied in Bosilegrad, where it is impossible to provide a person who would possess such expertise and specific knowledge necessary to establish something. Furthermore, if we're talking about judicial warlocks, and we're talking about them, above all, there's a judicial council or a judge who can accept it, and he doesn't have to accept it. Why doesn't he have to accept it? There may be doubts about the credibility of the person who's been doing this job that he wrote, there may be doubts about his expertise, and there may be doubts about some job he's done, whether he's done quality work. Now let me go back to some of our practices here. We have people specializing in forensic medicine and judicial psychiatry. The question arises, what else should he have, what knowledge to deal with skills in these areas, when he acquired in college and in specialist, master's, doctoral and other studies, subspecies from some area, is really the question. Of course, that question does not arise for those who witch something that is a pity, whether it is material or immaterial damage. There are some additional knowledge needed. Today we have a situation when there's a need for skill, some time the parties in the dispute propose someone, and sometimes it's not up to the judges to decide who it's going to be. Based on what? Based on some of your experience. The issue of art is also in some ways in the area of bankruptcy, as it is not only accounting and accounting to determine the value of the property, but other criteria must be applied. How do you interpret it? How do we determine that without making a mistake and making sure? We have a situation with professional warlocks, which are simply, why don't you say, what kind of a state of justice we're in, so that's the condition of our experts. How many people you have who simply complain about not taking advantage of some procedural rights and failed, and maybe it was an impossible job in some court procedure, to challenge the findings and opinions of some expert who had agreed with some lawyer who represented the opposite side. We've got it all. This law doesn't solve it. The question is, can the law ever solve it, because it goes into the specific composition of the substrates and the quality of those people who do the job. Something to try, something to do, but I think it's the wrong way. I think the wrong path is chosen, that this bill will not solve any of these problems. We will boast of the new law, with some new solutions, probably the Ministry will get the exclusive right to form some new monopolies in this regard, and there is no need for anyone to doubt, because we are stronger by one experience. We warned two years ago about what would happen to the justice system if it started with this transformation, so you saw what happened. That's exactly what we said. After joining others and repeating our grades and observations from two years ago, that's their problem, but it happened. I said, as soon as something's working, Bosko Ristic, it needs to dry, it can't be recovered. Writing to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, the state community was torn apart. Whom he represented in the congregation, there is nothing of him. The judiciary caught on, you saw what it was. He threw his friends over there by those judicial authorities and he finished the job. Now, Tadic can rub his head with the European Commission, with the Society of Judges and these others, he doesn't care, he's done his part of the job. There's a similar situation here. You don't remember, you're young MPs, but a few years ago there was a story about a financial lease, in that old building, I said, he was the first person to use a licking in Nis, Anil, a car, and then he went to Holland so I wouldn't serve the army and not expand. And it happened. How many financial leases have functioned in the country. Look, full of crying, we said then, it'll be mostly for cars and buses and some trucks, not industrial plants. So they even brought in a professor from law school, when he heard what they did, he picked himself up and escaped from the first bench, didn't want to be filmed in the company of Pitic and Bosko Ristic. That's what's going to happen with this law, too. Something's trying, it's not going to the end. You can't go all the way. You can register anyone here as an expert. When you say he's a court expert, you give him authority, no matter what other skill or third skill exists, which in the course of the proceedings you can dispute the art and the ultimate instance is a judge, who either accepts or refuses the art, etc. By definition, an artist is needed to determine the facts. How many expert juvie psychiatrists have written to a drug dealer that he's an addict to go to mandatory treatment, not go to jail, and then reduce the amount, etc., and then he calls out to judges, like they cooperate. No, it's not. The circle is closed, everyone's complicit. Everyone's complicit in it, it's a big deal. There, that's our reality. We can't stop it with a bill like this. With a natural person, where he performs with a name and a last name, with his profession, his profession, his references, the situation is clear. We now have a situation that legal persons also appear, that the work of art, as a business activity – excuse me, please, then it is not the matter of the law that regulates judicial skills, but it is the matter that regulates business societies. Any projecting bureau in order to gain this work, in order for this job to work, or control, it must qualify with an appropriate number of experts from the relevant area, who have some certifications, etc. Not everyone can build a project for a high-rise building, roads, etc. From the point of view of knowledge and what they're doing, they're maltenes in the rank of an expert. Let's be clear. We in everyday work, no matter what we do, determine some facts and draw some conclusions based on these facts. Every construction engineer in the company, machine engineer, anyone and any profession in his regular work determines certain facts, so he's not a court expert. And how many of them are working on a premium, a precalculation, that do it very well, much better quality than what would existing court experts do in court cases? We're now making some issues here with an unfinished bill, which has a basic goal of the Ministry certificationing someone as a court expert. That's the whole point. It can simply be interpreted as the Ministry wants to have absolute control over who's going to be an expert. For what? There's no answer. It's probably where monopolising is being prepared. I have to tell you, this is the wrong concept. Absolutely wrong concept. Take the situation when a question comes up, and too specific. Here, this morning the squirrel was talking about plagiarism. Who could be a plagiarist? He's gone. And how is it going to get out of that situation if that fact is to be determined before the court? Well, there's a reference facility, the highest facility in any area. In that case that Verica was talking about, it was law school. In other areas, it is probably the institutes within the Serbian Academy of Science and Art. You remember how hard it is to estimate, say, the value of an image. A few authors who are God and a beating were promoted, when they say what that painting is worth, it's worth so much. The appraisers. Two years later, it's a copy and it's not original at all, and people have a certificate that they're authorized to evaluate. Their words depend on whether something will be 200 euros or 5,000 euros. And what is this expertise? You see, there's something called some artistic ability, etc. And there are measurable elements, I'm not saying there aren't any. But when someone gets a certificate that he's the one who's uncuttingly assessing it, I'm sorry, it's like a monopoly. How many insurance companies moved the capital into the pictures? How many banks in paintings, sculptures, and other allegedly artistic objects have moved the fabulous wealth? All of this, in a way, concerns the issues of judicial skill, not only because of whether it ends up in court or not, but first of all, we are talking about what expertise it is, who owns that expertise. It's just amazing, according to this law, it's practically possible that a specialist in judicial psychiatry isn't registered as a court expert. This law allows and allows. It's amazing stuff. Now it's up to who in the Ministry to apply these regulations directly. What's the composition of that ministry of yours, that some of them are running from that ministry. I don't mind them running away, and three years ago I attacked them, this Private Simic, but now you've got this man in charge of prison. Did you know that in 1992 he fell into a shaft in Budva within a clan? Milan Obradovic, called Rambo, is in charge of prisons. Imagine a profile like that on your application of this law? The entire bankruptcy mob is about to go to court. That's what I'm saying in advance, and I was very little, possibly, wrong. Just like I told you two years ago what would happen in courts. The worst thing there was, you chose as judges. Imagine, in the Court of Appeals, I went to a woman, I showed you the subject for that woman, and you told me yourself that there were millions of criminal charges against her, and you voted for her to go to the Court of Appeal. That's how it's gonna be with the witches. Only the chosen will pass. And where's the waist, and where's the knowledge, and where's the results, and where's the expert opinion? There isn't. It's peripheral. You're saying this law can't be regulated. You got it. But the most important thing for you is to seize that right of signature – I've come to a solution, and Dick will be an expert. It's the end of the story. And what he'll do in courts, you know. If you don't know, ask Bosko Ristic, he'll tell you. I took advantage of a little time from the MPs' group. I hope that I will still have a chance to take another example of what it's like to be an expert on people who don't meet the conditions of being an expert.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42131	You have used the time foreseen for an authorised representative and five minutes and 20 seconds of time by the parliamentary group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42132	The Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, has submitted an amendment to Article 2, where, above all, and whenever we write contracts, when we write laws or when we talk about something, we should agree on definitions or what is meant by certain terms. To that end, our amendment to Article 2 has also been submitted. The proposal, where we have defined art affairs not as the existence of expertise for someone who will deal with this work, but as activities that will actually get expert findings and opinions. I used that argument already in the principle debate, saying that expertise is only a potential that does not mean that this expertise will be translated and put into office of findings that will help the court, means only to help the court, to make a decision. I don't understand why you didn't appreciate that argument. You are even in the context of why the Government does not accept the amendment said that the work of art is activities of which, based on expertise, using scientific achievements, technical development, etc., provide the necessary expertise, but that this does not represent providing expert findings and opinions, but that the work of skill is and other expertise. I am now interested in – what kind of expertise and how can you use the court as an expert? What kind of immaterial, parapsychological data exchange, information or help can exist, and that is not a finding or an opinion that is expressed orally, and is dictated in some record or not something that is materialized? So, what are the expertise behind the rejection of this amendment that we have submitted, that you can call upon it without being able to show or explain it to anyone else as a finding or opinion, as a material document on something that may in any doubt, in some other step of action or any kind of protection of the rights of a party show? I understand this more once, I would say, by the self-love of the government, or the legislator, who doesn't want to change anything, where even journalists, even those who teach young children speaking and writing, for example, have a habit of speaking – doing jobs, doing tasks, doing tasks, as if other than doing things, doing jobs were the right time, not doing work. In that purity of language, in that fine expression, not precisely, not a hornet, but a clear, true meaning behind it, you should be doing exactly what you are doing, and that what you are is the contribution of our MPs to helping you accept it. But this isn't just a matter of nice expression, this is a matter of precision. The expert finding may also be that it may not be if it is carried out by an expert who has expertise. A professional man and a professional person who has expertise does not mean, by the logic of things, that he will give you both a professional finding and an opinion. I'm not going into quality, I'm entering the existence of a document called a find or an opinion. So in all affairs, in the exercise of power, in a responsibility called the rule of the people, there must be two basic elements, that is, justice and logic. Without justice or logic that should come from the word we write the law, everything else is not worth it. And the fact that we're hiding behind some of the rhubarb formulas, and in fact we don't have a fair and clear case-law that we want to put the court-laws in, I don't think the rejection of this amendment is very much in favor of you, and I think it's more in favor of a stubborn government, which has more evidence of its success than any witnesses. She thinks she can rule by order, not by explanation, and she talks enough about the bill promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42133	Three minutes and 20 seconds of Parliament time. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42134	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Madam Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, when one of the 32 members of this law reduced their debate to a debate on Mr. Bosko Ristic, a fellow MP, that says there are not enough arguments. In Article 30 of this law, the truth works, it does not say that Bosko Ristic determines who will be a court expert, but says the minister announces a public invitation to appoint an expert, in accordance with this law, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. If we had such a law in 2002, we might know who was as a minister of traffic, as a minister of trade, as a minister of tourism, did various abuses. So we'd find out who, as Minister of Trade and Tourism, was purposelessly spending money on books, we called a court expert, the question was – sir, excuse me how many books were purchased from taxpayers' accounts, paid through the Ministry's account, and paid to some publishing house and whether they were party books, party books or professional books for education of people and employees in the Ministry. We would know how much money from the Ministry of Trade and Tourism was spent without a tender for the purchase of equipment, clothing, shoes, for the various people who did the job at the Ministry, so these shoes were taken by the minister himself. The minister's name wasn't Bosko Ristic. That minister has a different name and last name. Whoever has that name and last name today is the loudest critic of Mr. Bosko Ristic. It's some legitimate right. My duty as a MP is to first and foremost protect my colleague, to protect Mr Bosko Ristic from unfounded criticism, to commend the Ministry of Justice for all that is done in judicial reform, and I think this law is just another step towards full judicial reform, that we will get judicial skills that are professional and educated. Once again, I underline – does not appoint Bosko Ristic as a court expert, the minister does, and it is written in this law. I'm only saying this for the sake of truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42135	I think I've got a pretty good estimate that there were no special attacks, no reason to intervene. Mr. Ristic, I don't believe he still needs a lawyer. We're still discussing it. Anyone else want a word? One announcement from the Secretary General of RTS, which informs us that from June 22nd to June 25th, it will not be possible to follow the meeting of the Assembly due to previously agreed commitments, and that everything will be delayed. We haven't got a direct transmission since 1545. According to this amendment, Mr Sinisa Stamenkovic, authorised representative of the PUPS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, we are of the opinion that, in the debate in the principle of law-making on judicial warlocks, we are directly faced with the opposite opinions and that the opportunity to discuss details is responsible, critical and above all a security debate on each amendment individually, and that, at least for one step, a better approach to a certain removal of the bottlenecks of our process in the process of making final decisions of the courts, and in connection with the work, work and authority of the court. This applies to all areas of judicial practice, from litigation through trade to criminal, or from labour to labour relations. In the debate in principle, we agreed that the correct, professional and above all worthy of performing art from an immeasurable influence on the efficiency and quality of our courts. For a long time, in the PUPS parliamentary group, we have been thinking about how well it is to explicitly predict the powers of the court, to first select the expert, and then to consider and adopt the skills to make the courts fair, to learn a well-founded inconclusive judgment that many mean life or business loss. The PUPS parliamentary group considers that there is no room for objecting to various political options to be considered by the urgent procedure, because we believe that the legal emergency procedure took place in 1987, since the previous law was adopted, i.e. it is used with all the outdated and anachronic solutions, which, to this day and day, have created serious and inconceivable consequences for all the participants in the judicial proceedings, both for prosecutors and for the defendants, for both the convicted and those who have been released. The PUPS Parliamentary Group, which has paid particular attention not only to the draft of this law but also to special attention and responsibility, to adopt it according to an emergency procedure, with fully defined basics of skill, as well as with all specific activities from which the necessary expertise is provided to the courts in order to establish the legal relevant facts, i.e. the true elements necessary for the judgments to be passed. With due respect and responsibility, we have considered all the amendments submitted to this law and we have gained confidence that 80% of the amendments submitted by all policy options must be supported. We think that the Ministry of Justice, and with our support, will accept how technical corrections on the draft of individual members of the law, and essentially amend a small number of amendments that eliminate ambiguities and possible confusion in interpreting the difference between having the necessary expertise and expert findings and opinions given by a certain artist, which my previous colleagues have otherwise spoken of. We intend to assist in laying down rules for determining the skills on the new list and schedules when they are determined by the competent ministry. We advocate to avoid, at any cost, the arbitrary appointment of a professional by the personal will of a minister, judge or president of a court, by making it mandatory to comply with the law of the prescribed conditions for a professional and legal person under the same conditions, without any subsequent interpretation of these conditions. In further discussion, we will push for the adoption of amendments that prevent the appearance of a legal entity for art, and above all a state-owned institution or a state-owned institution, or a state-run body, as well as an engaged expert in the affairs of articulation entrusted to a legal person, and not to them as individuals, to which my colleagues also pointed out in the debate in principle. Our public has many times had the opportunity to convince, through the affirmative shows of various television stations and through the inscriptions in electronic media and newspapers, of the incredible skills that have followed us in previous court practice, and, in particular, at the Kirilo Savic Institute and their department of traffic and technical skills. Not once are artificial statements in which the pedestrian is guilty at a pedestrian crossing, and cars are completely destroyed at a speed of 40 kilometers per hour, and then charged with certain insurance companies. The PUPS Group will support any amendments preventing judicial experts, members of the legal person of an institute or of a state body from carrying out tasks entrusted to that legal person during working hours, as individuals using technical means, protected methodological procedures, databases and other resources which are in the possession of the State of the legal person or institute and which charge those services personally as licensed judicial experts. We think it would be inappropriate practice. Such practices for the last 23 years, by pouring state resources into private pockets, by taking bribes from previously known culprits, to be freed, led to the total loss of responsibility, and especially the dignity of individual court-laws, which were responsible, expertise and responsibility of licensed responsibilities, as well as the right to justice, avoided for one great fee. The PUPS considers that it is necessary to assist the Ministry in accepting a number of amendments that regulate legal certainty and establish rules for determining the skills and verifying their qualifications in the skill-making processes. We suggest that the list of areas and narrow specialities that determine the witches be expanded and that only the narrow speciality of the craftsmen to be stamped and confirmed should be included in the solution. The artist makes an offer, documenting his abilities and qualifications, obtaining and delivering evidence of his dignity, and the verification of his specialty is determined in advance by a known procedure, by some kind of licence, after which he can be placed on the list without any concern that any individual or artist has influenced it, either the President of the Court or the Minister. Publicity and transparency in the work is more necessary than ever when it comes to the proper choice and determination of skills for the art of a particular profession, and in this regard we support all amendments of various political groups that talk about it. We support the idea that every expert must have passed a professional exam in the field for which they are running, or some kind of licence, as all the other highly professional personnel of this country do. If the Ministry does not accept this amendment, then it would have to commit to this parliament to find a way to properly introduce the expert into the knowledge needed for the position and role of the expert in the court proceedings, in order to properly perform the art in the court case. So it's not just enough for the expert to be an independent expert in his narrow speciality, but also for him to know the rules of the court's work, the court's case and the final verdict. In this regard, we support all amendments that regulate these issues. We are in favour of applying a strict rule that, within the framework of a legal person, those persons who are designated for art must know in advance, or report to a unique list of judicial experts, which was approved by the minister. We do not allow or accept that the legal officer himself declares his decision to be a judicial expert, justifying them that they are from the ranks of professional and scientific associates, but we suggest that these be proposed in due time for the list of judicial skills in full, and when they pass the test of dignity and expertise, then the solution of the competent manager may be designated for certain cases of judicial skill. The PUPS will seek, in particular, to ensure that certain provisions of the State Administration Act prescribed by the Minister's powers in the adoption of acts are applied and legal regulation of fees and obligations. We believe that the fees for the work of the experts must be publicly determined on the basis of general rules and criteria which will be known in advance for all those who want to do this work, thus eliminating any manipulation in preventing the process of dispensing unworthy judicial skills. We believe that all amendments from various political groups tabled on these issues should be accepted. The public debate, the public attention caused by this auxiliary law in the judiciary, shows the immediate and great need for the law to be adopted as soon as possible and to contribute to the rapid and effective work of our judiciary and the judiciary, in full new principles, responsibilities and responsibilities. In voting day, we will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42137	Nine and a half minutes have been spent by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposed to add a new member of 5a after article 5 has been submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law on judicial experts to be added to Article 5a. It reads: "The area of skill and narrow speciality, as well as the conditions relating to the professional calling of skills to perform art in a particular area, are prescribed by the list of areas and narrow specialities of witches. The list of areas and narrow specialities of skill set out in Article 1 shall be prescribed by the minister. "The government has provided as an explanation, and the reason for not accepting, that the government believes that prescribing a specific list of areas and narrow specialities of the arts is not necessary to specify the area of skill and narrow speciality, nor to adopt an appropriate sublegal act that will bring this closer to order. What is the position of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, is that prescribing the list of areas and narrow specialities is necessary for legal certainty and establishing rules for determining the experts and verifying their qualifications in the process. Also, it is prescribed that an area and a narrow speciality should be introduced into the solution and stamp, and this cannot be done on an arbitrary basis based on the findings of the artist himself. In addition, this law stipulates that the area and the narrow speciality of the expert are introduced into the solution and stamp, which must not be the result of the arbitrary nature of the artist or minister, but must be predetermined by the list. For this reason, I suggest that the Government accept this amendment to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42139	Thank you, Mr Maximovic. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42140	To Article 6. The SNS has submitted an amendment, and the objective of this amendment is, above all, to clarify the specific conditions prescribed for judicial experts and I think the SNS proposal is much more comprehensive than we have in the text of the law. I think the accent should be given, first of all, to a professional exam that the SNS advocates, and I am pleased to see that there is interest in other parliamentary groups too to support this idea. We believe that the expert exam is something that is necessary in this area to have significantly better quality judicial skills, so that judicial proceedings are significantly more effective, in order to avoid many abuses that occur, above all, because the court experts themselves often do not know the nature of the legal process and the role of the judicial expert would be much more adequate, we are sure, if the law prescribes an expert exam. In addition, we have also tried to make sure that those court-laws against whom they were being conducted or that some criminal proceedings have been carried out and that it makes them unworthy, as well as that of this amendment, that they are not alone in the situation that they can carry out their skills, that it is also part of these special duties, or possibly if they have already been relieved of duties earlier, so that it seems to me that, first of all, this House, when it comes to a professional exam, should open up a more serious debate. I hope that, in the course of the debate, this idea of SNS will be accepted by most MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42141	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42142	This amendment only requires a change of these working experience conditions. In Article 6 paragraph 1, point 2) as a condition stated – at least five years of professional experience. Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic asked that the word "five" be replaced with the word "seven" years of work experience, because it still takes more experience to have someone as an expert and as an expert in the hands of the competent, judicial or other authorities have that kind of authority that is necessary to complete the job for which the expert is in charge. However, I have to go back to what's initial, which is not observed in this law, simply doesn't follow this law. You see, an expert should be helpful to whoever decides, because it needs to determine some facts and convince the competent authority that it is, not to convey the necessary expertise to the one who needs to decide. So a construction profession artist doesn't need judges to learn what a construction profession is, but to very precisely tell how much concrete is there, how many armatures, how many boards, how many hours of work, how much energy and how much it costs, if we took this particular example, and not to pass on the necessary knowledge to judges in the field of construction. The judge doesn't need that. It only needs to establish one fact which it considers relevant, because without that fact it cannot apply material law. He's turning around here, so it's said that an expert should be a lecturer to the judge to teach him what another area is. It turns out from this member of the second bill. Now, on a very specific case, I'm going to show what this work experience means, the profession and the level of expertise needed. You see, in the west, anything can be artificial. It goes so far that even sometimes it doesn't make a difference whether it's the fact that it's real. Many times, warlocks and law, not so directly, but it can be concluded that the warlocks and the law that should be applied. You see, in this trial, Vojislav Seselj was one witness who was supposed to interpret and help the court determine that Greater Serbia was a criminal project. Now, Madam Minister, you know who they took to be an expert on these things? Lingvist Ivo Tomic. He wrote that report on 100 and some pages. People who deal with history in Serbia laughed sweetly at the amount of ignorance shown in the report, even the trendy ignorance, from the fact that in the 16th century the Ottoman Empire made the military landscape to protect the Turks against Austro-Hungarians. With us kids in third grade primary school would get a history unit. Do you know who he quoted it from? From some book by Desimir Tosic, published in France in 1952, which is found by artist Ivo Tomic. Do you know what conclusions that smart mind has come to? Yes, the creator of the concept of Greater Serbia is Vuk Karadzic, Ilija Garasanin, Slobodan Jovanovic, Dragoslav Draža Mihailovic, Vasa Cubrilovic, Stevan Moljević. Imagine, even put Latina Perović and SANA. There, you see what kind of experts show up. Or that interceptive conversation expert, a high-school cop who graduated from law school during some war there, never intercepted a conversation, took transcripts of those conversations and testified for six days. When asked what technique, how, he didn't know how to say, and you deliver people to The Hague tribunal as a supreme court where international justice is conducted according to the highest standards, and there defiling which types, they are represented as witnesses by experts, great experts and experts. Those of us wouldn't have passed the fourth grade of elementary school. If you take that as a criterion, God forbid, for this law of ours on judicial warlocks, then you can imagine what would happen in our judicial system. Then no one is surprised by the absence of trust, the belief in judicial judgments that are being pronounced in Serbia. You see how many people are protesting, how many people are complaining, how many people are visiting MP groups, probably the last address where someone can address a request, to point to injustice, are MP groups. How many times has it been in our business here that the uncontestable facts that are easy to determine turn around, so they are not obvious and indisputable, but they are presented in some other way, how does one respond? This is also reflected in the court procedure and in the procedures of the financial authorities, where expropriation is carried out and fair compensation is established elsewhere. It's one syndrome that goes. So I'm telling you, this law can't stop it, it can't stop it. He can only give one shell, so it's supposed to be in accordance with some new law, that something might go a little bit, but move on the same way. Here, let me show you on one occasion. There's a new Traffic Safety Act here that gave good results. That has to be said, no matter what solutions are there, it's halved, it's reduced by two-thirds, and that's good, but basically, that law doesn't apply. The law itself scares people, and it's a good thing that a man doesn't make an accident, that he doesn't drive under the fact that he doesn't do things. It's good. The law itself as a kind of threat to some sanction makes its own, but the state authorities are not ready to apply that regulation, and those bodies that need to take care of the roads, and this one of our police that should record etc. It takes a lot of things to finish. I took this as an example because we all feel it. By passing the law, positive effects appeared, because people accepted it, one of fear, one of the needs, someone for fear of punishment puts on a belt, someone because he appreciates that it is necessary to be tied with a belt in the car. Now, that same principle cannot be applied to a law like this that is not finished. That's what this is about. There is a difference – one area, another area. This is where the law itself produced some results. It also cannot appear in this area. Why? There are other judges with the same habits, the same experts with the same habits will appear, the same job will start again, and there will be no guarantee of professionality, reliability, credibility of these people. That's what this is about. No one slows down the need to fix this. No one even slows down the need for it to be arranged in a completely different way than it is, for example, one that applies in some Western European countries, where minority parties agree on who will be the expert. That solution proved to be good for them. Why? If they finish before that and agree on who's going to be an expert, then probably 70-80% of the potential problems have been solved by the parties. Whoever got that trust from the parties and from the court is probably trying to do it in the best possible way, because he cares not to challenge his findings as an expert. Why? He's losing reference tomorrow. We don't have that mentality. It's impossible for us to implement it now. It'll happen just like that construction law that was passed a few years ago, when construction engineers were licensed. All those who are a little bit in construction, they know it. Some of them got the license, and then the malts sold the license. They're reporting to 25 construction sites. They're on one, possibly two, and at 23, they don't even know where they are. They just gave the seal and their signature. It won't happen here, because it still has to be in court. There's a judge present, etc. But in another way, there will be a lack of this regulation and this law. In that sense, we have submitted these amendments, just to draw attention, because if there is any experience, then it takes that experience to share with others, so that tomorrow, despite so much experience, some things are repeated in continuity, and then someone really asks a question – what have we passed the law? Or that which you used to paint for nothing. We passed the law for nothing, if that goes the way it was. I express, first of all, that fear, doubt that all of this will go the way it did and that there will be no new effects left. I will not touch you for what is your best brand – pro-European, Euro-Atlantic, etc. There's a little bit of it here, but you know I'm not a Eurofanatic, so I can even commend you for running away from some of the solutions that exist in some Western European countries. And they have these problems, and they have these disputes. We think that if I went back to this amendment right now, if it took much more work experience, that this work experience would be a guarantee of one expertise, one quality. It has to be said – the artist must have authority. Authority, almost the same one that should be owned by a judge. The judge gets authority, first of all, by proper application of the rules, good judgments, accurate judgments, truth. The greatest phenomenon of today is the truth in court proceedings. The court case is, as a rule, the last instance where a man appears to protect one of his rights that he considers to be compromised. So the problem of truth in court proceedings is probably the ultimate problem of today, because man must have faith in some institutions, in some institutions. When he loses confidence in all these lower institutions, he appears to the court as a place of justice. Now, if there's a problem with a judge, a prosecutor's problem, a problem with an expert, a problem with one or the other, then you know for yourself how it works on every citizen and what he believes and expects, in the end, what he needs to do tomorrow under certain conditions to defend and protect.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42143	Used 12 minutes and 45 seconds of MP time. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 6. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42144	Madam Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to the second chapter where the conditions for performing the skills are to Article 6, which refers to expertise. First of all, these are the conditions of expertise for a natural person to be appointed an expert. We asked for a point 3 to be added to point 4 – that, according to its human and moral qualities, it is worthy of work in the capacity of the artist, and that given the nature of its regular work, it can be expected that the art will be done objectively, neatly and in time. What we wanted to add to these conditions of expertise, where you prescribe that there is an adequate higher education, at least five years of work in the profession, to possess expertise, we have tried to add point 4), that necessary condition for someone to be worthy of performing this very important and very responsible function in making court decisions. In fact, we felt that it was very necessary to tighten the conditions for performing skills. That's why we added this condition to the four. I'd like Mrs. Minister to listen to me, because I'm trying to convince her to accept the amendment. I mean, I don't know what's controversial. Madam Minister, I'm trying to convince you. I'm making arguments in favor of our amendment. (President: Mrs. Vojic Markovic, please. No one disturbs you in your exposure. I agree, but I don't see anyone listening to what I'm saying, at least none of those I'm supposed to convince. I'm trying to make arguments that are in favor of this amendment that we wrote as a parliamentary group. The dignity to act as a court expert is also very important for the performance of skills, and you did not foresee them in Article 6. That's why we thought it was necessary to enter it as a 4) into Article 6. We felt that it was necessary to really tighten these conditions for performing skillful activities and it was for a reason. Let me give you an example. Apparently, judicial experts are very often unaware of the high responsibilities they have in making some judicial decisions and the way these judicial decisions affect people’s lives later. In the Valjev court, a verdict was made based on the skill of the construction profession. The party was not satisfied with this decision, it complained and in the follow-up process it was demonstrated that the expert opinion was made on the basis of falsified documents – books of work, construction logs, etc., because it was clear, and it was written in these very materials that I had the opportunity to see, that at the same time the same truck, with the same registration marks, the same type of truck, the same manufacturer was in three different places and loaded construction material in three different places. Since this is, of course, impossible in physics, and in real life, impossible, it was obvious that the documents were forged. It's proven, but the verdict hasn't been brought down. The expert remains a judicial expert, continues to contribute to such judicial decisions. It's just that we're asking the question here, could the expert have been objective? Could he have been an expert? Did he know the papers were forged? Obviously he did, because if he did read, though, it was quite a lot of material, but that he was reading, on page 10 he had an insight that one object couldn't be found in three different places at the same time. That's what we're trying to talk about here. It's not about his expertise. That's quite clear and should be made clear. This is about something else. That's why we thought someone who did such things couldn't be a court expert. It's a very important question of the dignity of someone, of some human traits, of human qualities that can be swept under that dignity. Therefore, we felt that it was very important to enter a point 4 in Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42145	Four minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The word has a minister, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42146	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, Mrs. Vojić Markovic, we were just discussing this amendment of yours and although it seemed to you that we were not listening. As Government, we have accepted the amendment of MP Judita Popovic, who has just been told that dignity is one of the criteria that will be seen in the appointment of judicial experts. However, the amendment was rejected by the Legislative Committee and the chairman explained this to us, but we accept the amendment of the Committee on Justice and Administration, so that the criteria of dignity will be one of the criteria to be seen, of course in the context and others, for the appointment of judicial skills. Otherwise, I completely agree with you that this should exist. It's never been set before. However, unfortunately, some negative examples and negative practice have come to the conclusion that this must exist precisely under the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42147	Now, if I understand correctly, the amendment that is pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure submitted by the Justice Committee to article 6 have you accepted?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42149	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, thank you, Madam Minister. I'm glad you still listened to what I was saying. Of course, I'm very pleased that what we have proposed is accepted in the law, so no matter which way, who signed it, but you haven't convinced me that the criteria for accepting the amendments are who the signatories are.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42151	Twenty seconds. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Ragush. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42152	This amendment requires the erasure of Article 6 paragraph 2 because what you have written in paragraph 2 is reflected in the solutions that exist in Article 1, 2, 6 paragraph 1. etc. Because if it's about the need to provide that waist, that quality, etc., then I don't know why you're making an exception to a very important condition. I don't know how you could find an expert with medium professional training for some areas that are subject to court-ordering. It's just that this is contradictory with the previous members of this law. It wouldn't be a wonder if something that's contradictory were to slip through it. Of course, I don't want to argue, there are too many capable people who are really experts and experts in an area, although they don't have some high school equipment for that area. The fact that hobbyists far exceed experts in some areas. There are some areas where there's just no school. I don't know, maybe we make a mistake, I guess no one's gonna judge me about it, but the cinema judge is probably an expert in that area, there's no school. There's probably no school. He's got school, I'm sorry, Milice, but it's known that a philatellist can be without any school, but for 30-40 years, he's been doing this hobby and he's getting significant results. Of course, what I've been trying to explain is why we're looking to delete Article 2 within Article 6, it has nothing to do with these things that I've been talking about, because this is contradictory - Art. One, two and six. Doesn't match each other. In order for the public to realize how serious this subject is, where it requires a profession, authority and everything else that gives credibility to an individual that it can say that it is a judicial expert and a quality judicial expert, I would remind you of some television shows. We had opportunities for something that was a few years ago in this barracks on Dedinj, Topcider, several television shows were anywhere the professors of judicial medicine, who worked as court experts, clashed over the reconstruction of what had happened and two soldiers were killed. Then the question arises, one thing is a scientific debate, where there is freedom of scientific creation, opinions, etc., but if one and the other performs as a qualified court expert and brings up some facts as witches, then the question is how to solve a court or an ordinary man to come to some relevant conclusion about an event? It was similar in other TV shows, third bullet whether or not there exists, etc. On both sides, there were very high-quality court experts. Hundreds of judgments were made on the basis of their expert opinions, and for some event, they have a different opinion as court experts. Then you can imagine what kind of dilemma or chaos a judge is in, which side to bow down to, etc., what to accept. That's why I'm saying that the judge and the court council are still this instance that assesses all of this, so there's a paradoxical situation that, not accepting the opinion of an expert, basically the judge devalues the profession of a person, so it can also be a professor of neuropsychiatrics who performs. The judge simply does not accept his opinion and then questions whether the president of the Assembly, who is also a professor of neuropsychiatrics, is probably also a judicial expert for the area, whether she is teaching students well if a judge says – does not matter, does not fit. Now you can see how much it takes for these guarantees of expertise and authority. That's why I'm going back to the beginning. We're in the field of evidence. It's something helpful to the judges, but important. He doesn't know how to measure, to calculate, etc., which is why he needs an expert. What kind of expert? The one he won't doubt, the one he'll trust. What's his guarantee supposed to be? Solution to register entry. That's about the same for you - do you have a driver's license? I have a driver's license, which means you're qualified to drive, it doesn't matter that you haven't been in a car in 10 years, you have a driver's license. You know, at times, I find this enrollment of yours as something to get some "license" for something that is unnecessary, like getting a mountaineer's license. Anyone can climb the mountain whenever they want, they don't need any permission. That's why I'm saying this bill is incomplete. This bill does not provide any guarantees, but absolutely none, that we will have professional, quality skills. This proves from a member to a member of the legislator of the law. Here, Article 6 of Section 2 devalues all that is written forward in the first five and a half members. Since I decided to combine it a little bit today, see what it's like in the west. A great expert on religious facilities Anderas Leadermayer appeared in The Hague. You may have heard, I refer to him as a camera expert with a flash and no flashes, a double magistrate in 65 years of life. He gave a lecture to the Security Committee at the US Congress in 1992 and 1993, and told reporters about hundreds of thousands of abused, raped, etc. Mrs. Malovic, also appeared as a witness expert on BiH's lawsuit before the International Court of Justice in The Hague and there reiterated his statement before this committee, but no one represented us, Serbia. Rade Stojanović, he doesn't care what happens there. That's where he ends up in high school. Do you know what he experienced in The Hague when he was questioned by Vojislav Seselj? That he had to apologize and say that he lied in 1992 and 1993 at the U.S. Congress when he talked about hundreds of thousands of rapes, because no court case proved that. He had to admit that he forged his report before the International Court of Justice, something that was in February 1992, he set up in May 1992. Why? To coincide with a session of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska in Bijeljina. They're your warlocks, they're your order-orderers. This country is silent. They know everything. He won't raise his voice. Why? Why not raise your voice?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42153	Eight minutes and 20 seconds of Parliament time. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42154	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, the New Serbia Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to Article 6. In my opening discussion, I must say that I am fully in agreement with my colleague Krasic, who said one thing here, that this position 2 fully devalues all that has been done before. I don't know the source for this position 2, the previous draft that I came up with was much better and it was a much better starting point to get past all this. In this proposal, there were four categories, people with medium professional training – first rank, persons with higher professional training – second rank, persons with high professional training – third rank, and persons with master’s degree, specialization, doctoral studies – fourth rank. Madam Minister, I cannot accept such double standards. In theory, it can happen, and here you said in Section 2, to explain to the citizens of Serbia, exclusively from the position of the 1st member, an expert may be appointed a person with the least completed high school, if there is not enough skills for a particular area of art with high education acquired. Let's start with one theoretical possibility. In one town of 30,000 people, we have experts with high-level expertise, but no one enlists to be an expert in the area of that court. Did you predict such a possibility? Can we say that there are no competent experts in this city with high professional training, because it can happen for some reason, for some reason, busyness, just don't want people to witch, that on the rank list, or on the court's list, there's not a single expert. Do we in that environment then have an expert or not, and can we accept that in that environment, where people with high professional training live, someone can perform with medium professional training? I think I've set a plastic example, this law absolutely doesn't regulate it. The question arises, where are these small environments in which there is one basic court, when we have abolished a large number of basic courts, there are practically those territorial units, or those courts as evicted areas, and to me, not a day or day, and it will never be clear what that means. Say, Raška or Vranjska Banja, do we have a court or do we not have a court at all, and can anyone from that area be a warlock or can't? Is there a high level of expertise or not? What I'm saying is, where we don't have people with high-end expertise practically, we don't have dishes. For some reason, there are certain disputes and the court can go out on the spot, and that's all clear to me. Is this about district courts or just those places where they're destined to do something? New Serbia has offered an elegant solution, indeed correct, to get out of this problem, if you are already in position 2. Don't let us run out of people, and they're not very few in Serbia, I think that's a 700-800 figure. Through this amendment, we have offered an elegant solution that proven experts who do not have high professional equipment can, with the court's recommendation, where you directly decide, where there are high-quality witches, stay in one period and make natural selection later what they want by law and practically to be eliminated by people with medium or higher expertise. I can't accept it, and I can't accept it, and there's a lot of judges who know that in that court, certain experts always come to the rescue when the situation happens that some expert and high-end expert are taking over the case, he's being held for two or three months, and then he gets returned for some reason, and then the judges usually call him because the parties suffer, ministers, the parties are threatened. I don't care who the warlocks are tomorrow. It doesn't hit me at all. I don't think this is good, and I think this attitude 2 is a double standard. That's what I'm talking about in principle, and I said, if there's no middle of an artist, and I can't even figure out that this situation is going to happen, then I just need to bring in the experts on the side that are going to report in some city. If this number of judges travels all over Serbia, in some situations some expert should go one day and report it and return and give his opinion. It's not that big a cost, and then you'd be completely clear. We want this law to be a high professional cookout and a point. If there's any possibility of medium professional preparation, then don't be so brutally punishing those people who live in a community, and I said that last time, I have to repeat, to be punished, and who are ordinary witches and who live only in one city where there may be two or three experts with high professional equipment, and they're practically eliminated that way. Minister, I don't think this is really good. I'm not saying that I'm not attacking anything right now, and I have no intention that when professional things are, I attack something that belongs to an opposition party. Believe me, he's gonna make a big mess of this in the judiciary. Minister, since the end of this session is practically coming to an end and summer etc., we probably won't see each other for a little while longer, it's not good in the judiciary. The items have been scheduled since March for October, and are now scheduled for November and December. This is what I'm telling you most well-intentioned. Payments by official duty to lawyers seven or eight months late. It's not good either. You can't accept the situation that just so many cases, and last time, I won't repeat myself, I said in executions, specifically in the King there are 5,000 executions, two judges doing just that job. Not in a court where cases from Raska and even from Kosovo and other places, Vranjska Banja, can't be served by two judges on so many cases. There's something that needs to be done. If they're gravitating objects from some other regional units, it should be absolutely enhanced. The parties can't charge more fees for the lawsuit, the judgment fees, the execution fees and the fact that they have absolutely no use for it, because it stops. It's just not good. There's no rule of law, there's no rule of law if you can't execute one subject for four, five, six, seven years. Something that I don't quite get, I'd be back right now and I don't really want to criticize just, I want to warn you that some things don't work out. This is an opportunity to say one thing, these days in the means of public information says – we saved 700, 800 judges in the budget that item. That's just not true. All those judges who were not elected in December, they receive the mandatory item of six months by July 1st in this country, so if this is discussed we will save from July 1st, when they practically stop having that obligation, to call it, a functional supplement or as a set or elected person, etc., which regulates the law. I don't know what to do with all these people. In many areas the question of their dignity is raised, if they were not worthy of being elected judges, it must appear for many people, they will remain social cases. Many of them do not want to accept it, and there are many things that have been explained, where people are in a very awkward position. So I don't think it's good, it might be well imagined, but this is an example of this government relationship, where one concrete and elegant solution is offered, to overcome the problem. On this occasion, since I'm not likely to answer again, I'm just going to read again what's written in Article 6(2). Come on, we can talk about that he could have added this amendment in Section 2, so we don't spoil what you predicted as a possibility, maybe that's how it was supposed to be. Article 6 paragraph 2 is amended and reads: Exceptionally from the position of the 1st member, an expert may be appointed a person who has at least completed high school and 15 years of experience in art affairs, provided that the competent courts for which the skills have been carried out give a recommendation with the opinion of the Minister, who makes the final decision." Reasons – the reasons for accepting this amendment lie in the absence of the elimination of top-notch experts who have shown excellent results by their work, knowledge and experience so far. Their elimination would bring great damage to the judiciary, and so far so is the practice. Experience in business is very important and is particularly important in judicial skill. Failure to accept this amendment may have far-reaching consequences. Once again, as counterpart Krasic said, if it is predicted in that other attitude, which completely devalues everything, then there is room to accept this too, because in this way we will preserve the skills that are excellent experts in some environments, and the only sin is because they live in a city where there are allegedly better witches with high professional equipment. This isn't favoring something, this isn't a wish to say that it's better to have a high school, it's a college, it's just something that fits what you suggested in Article 2, and through this you'd get out of trouble elegantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42155	Say, Mr. Savior, the time you used was by an authorised representative or...? Nine minutes and 15 seconds? (Srdjan Spasojevic, from the place: All right. I won't answer again. ) The word has Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42156	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that this debate is being held and that you have made an effort to propose amendments to the bill and to the members in question. I think that the Ministry of Justice and I, which I am at the head of the Justice Ministry, are not only about this law, but all those laws we had during the term of office of this government, and I think that there were quite a lot of them and that we looked very often here, showed that we were ready and we never saw who was the applicant of the amendment, if these amendments were essentially improving the bill, to adopt them. So I don't think there's room for statements that there's stubbornness on our part. I think the work we've done so far has shown that it isn't. So we can talk here about whether the bill or a certain amendment is good or not, whether it's professional or unprofessional, whether it's fundamentally changing or not, but I don't think there's room for statements about stubbornness. We also made this law part of the judicial reform and, of course, I expect that in one segment and in the context of this bill, the reform of the judiciary is being implemented. In doing so, some of the statements that have appeared in the media have been misinterpreted and, while discussions have been held in principle, it is stated that we are moving the deadlines non-stop until the effects of judicial reform are seen. First of all, with that in mind, I'm saying there's never been a deadline shift. I've always said that a period of one year is the smallest period when the effects of judicial reform can be considered and this is not focused on the previous discussion. I want to say something else about the previous discussion, which is that the High Council of the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice, within their powers, sees the efficiency of the courts themselves and the speed of solving cases. With this in mind, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the High Council of the judiciary is asking for weekly reports from the courts themselves on the case resolution and is accordingly responding. You had a chance to see that recently the High Council of the Judiciary changed its decision on the number of judges and increased it by a certain number. As far as the organization itself is concerned, you know that a judge is always appointed for one court, and that it is a matter of the internal organisation of the president of the court in which he will work. Of course, efficiency on the one hand depends on the work of the judges themselves, and on the other hand it depends on good laws. You mentioned execution. We will soon, hopefully, have a chance to discuss the law of execution. It has been in public debate for some time and is available to all citizens through the Justice Ministry website, where you can get acquainted with this Bill of Law. I hope he becomes the bill soon and finds himself here on the agenda. Our goal is to increase efficiency, not only in the area of enforcement, but in all segments, but I think we should all work together, especially you, because you come from the profession of law because we will have this law and I hope soon on the agenda of Parliament. As I said and what I started the discussion with, everything that improves the law will be accepted and there will never be any place of stubbornness.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42157	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. Mr. Spasojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42158	Mr. Minister, while you were talking, while using the word "hardheadedness" twice, I consulted a little with my colleagues, no one heard that. It's possible, I'm sure it's probably lost. If that's the case, I'm sorry because I'm not sure I have a jargon, I'll check it out. But you weren't at all convincing to me now. You're not practical to me, if you've replicated, if there was any desire just to warn me of a word that is not so unusual in principle for the Serbian people, if you've shown up at all, you've practically responded – why has the government not accepted this amendment which is an elegant solution? You tied yourself up and explained something I was criticizing along the way. I know it's your intention and the government to change the law on the executive procedure, and of course, the Law on Lawyerry will come to order, but it's a matter of substance what he's going to solve and what we're about to see. The Implementing Procedure Act will practically accept that it is guaranteed to the citizens of Serbia and the parties who conduct the procedure only as long as the charges on the lawsuit, the charges on the verdict and the execution are paid to the state. The state will thus hurry to execute and charge for it. If the party has to pay for all of this, and the citizens don't lead the proceedings, to clarify, if, when a procedure is completed, let's say, 100,000 dinars is an obligation from the tax on the suit, the verdict and the execution, so if within a certain period of 15 days it is not paid, the court sends a notice of another 50% fine. I will believe in that law both in you and I will support you if it is with a delayed moment, because it is life. We can write laws as many as we want here, and it'll make those executioners and executive judges, and it'll be penals for those people who've been running the procedure for years, to believe in the state, and they won't have any expenses until they get their rights. If we make some cosmetic changes, it'll practically change nothing. Once again, if it slips, it's okay, but it's not that bad, it's one Serbian word. I didn't mean you directly, but in the consultations here, my colleagues didn't hear it. If we haven't all heard, and you've heard, I apologize if that's said.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42159	Three minutes of authorized representative time. The 6th Amendment was filed by MP Zoran Shami. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42160	It's not very grateful to interpret what my colleague was going to say, but I just need to clarify some things about this law, to improve the bill, so I'm going to defend what my colleague Shami wrote. So, in Article 6(2), you wrote: Exceptionally from the attitude of the 1st member (the expertise when it comes to higher education), the artist may be appointed a person who has the least completed high school, and then, if for a particular area of art, there is not enough skills with acquired higher education. This second part of the sentence - if for a particular area of art there is not enough skills with acquired higher education is quite vague and simply making confusion because it opens up the possibility as soon as it is not clear, when there is no precise such determination, for various types of abuses and it is obvious that many abuses have happened before in practice based on all these things. If an expert or one who wants to be an artist doesn't have a high school, or has a high school degree, and if it's a condition of high school, say, if there's no high school skills in Šapec, you have in Valjevo. If lawyers and judges and parties and everyone else are already traveling, why don't the witches travel? So you have an expert in a community that's close or doesn't have to be anywhere near if there's an expert who's really good at doing his job. But we think that you actually wanted to tell us something else, and that's how we wrote our amendment. So this should mean that in the Republic of Serbia there is no suitable higher education facility for an area to be skilled for, and then you can allow this condition for the artist to have completed high school. And in addition to that, let's say, what counterpart Krasic commented on, for the field of kinology when you need someone to witch you don't, if we're looking at formally there's no school for the education of a kinological judge, but there's a procedure for all of this, and it could probably be someone who graduated from high school. So, we tried, colleague Shami actually tried on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group to fix the amendment that someone who has a finished high school could be an expert on the condition that in the Republic of Serbia there is no suitable higher education institution. Because if you say -- there's not enough skills, that's, how much is five, ten, twelve, or just in that community where the court is, so it's totally arbitrary and it's not accurate. That is why we believe that our amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42161	Three minutes of Parliament time. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42162	As my colleague Spasojevic, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, I will only report once, and I will say that I have never doubted the good intentions of the Ministry, who really braved the battle for a better, fairer and legal state, and we in the SPO have really supported full judicial reform not because of the fact that we are part of the ruling majority, but because of the belief that the situation in our judicial system is so bad that everything that has been done so far by the Ministry and which will take the necessary action. In this respect, and the argument that a large part of the regulation relating to court-laws will also be regulated by the new law on litigation and criminal proceedings, as it may also be the failure of the legislator of this law. We think that this should have been explained by this law, because it's really impossible for a law on judicial experts to regulate the whole issue of judicial expertise and, of course, it's going to be necessary to bring in a series of sublegal acts. As far as my amendment to Article 7 of the Law is concerned, I am not adamant and I am pleased that out of the eight proposed amendments, the Government has accepted four. If it's in Article 6. The bill stipulates that an expert can be with secondary school preparation, which is quite fine by reason, then by following the comparative legislation we from the SPO have come to the conclusion that some other countries have predicted, such as the law on judicial experts of Montenegro, also in Article 7, that a candidate for a specialist scientific titles does not have to deliver the evidence set out in Article 1 of this article. First of all, we had in mind doctors specialists, artificial actuaries, etc. We think that without this amendment, this member of the law is acceptable, and indeed, what the respected fellow MPs of the opposition did, if all were to be accepted, we think that this law, given the overall problem I say, would first of all be regulated by sublegal acts, if he tried to regulate everything that life produces, he would actually be in several hundred members. I'll just look back in the short lines at one of my proposals to appoint an expert, and the chairman will use the time of the parliamentary group, for a period of six years. It seems to me that the general picture of the state of the court's skills is quite clear and that the general agreement of the parliamentary groups on the assessment of the situation has been reached. If we were to literally appoint artists, and the bill foresees it, for life, we can come into a situation where a artist who is many years old, over 75 or 80, and most often does, means there are mental activities slightly different from the age of retirement, it takes an expert to have a high degree of concentration, a good ability to observe and be comparatively analytical, integrated ability, selectivity of data, flexibility of opinion, permanently to perfect himself, to use modern technical means, to well monitor the process, to be preserved cognitive and mental functions, etc., so we will have a lot of experts that officially do not have confirmation that these abilities are partly limited. But in fact, there will be situations like that in life. One of my respected friends at 82 years of age has been artificial and trust me on the question of the conclusion -- which of the three versions is possible, probably because of age and age, has often left the possibility that each of the three opposite conclusions is possible. Secondly, I want to point out that Serbia really has good judicial skills, and brave judicial skills, and decent judicial skills, but we all talked about having those others. If there are others, if there is this corruption and networking, which they've all talked about, then it seems to me that by renaming an artist for unlimited time, we're starting to let them know that they can be dragged back again, that they have enough time to connect, that they're networking, etc., and that's very soon going to form a new network, which we wouldn't want to see. That's why I think it's a big job for the Ministry, after six years, to perform and assess the work of an expert and evaluate dignity and re-entry, but I think that, given the current situation in our judicial system, it's necessary. I would once again thank the Ministry and the Government for accepting our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42163	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Jovan Palalic. Mr Dimitrijevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42164	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have foreseen that the following words are added in this article 7 behind the words "proving" the following words: "using exams before the relevant expert commission in the manner prescribed by the minister". So we'd still be if there was something that gave you an additional qualification of a court expert, but I see that this amendment of ours has not been accepted. A few more words about the whole law. For us from the DSS is not a questionable intention to settle this area, it is quite clear and that intention is good, but what is the problem of this law, it is not the indetermination of this law. So that indiscretion goes from member to member. Here, and here it is confirmed in this seventh term and in that attitude the one where we have given the amendment, and certainly in this position 2. You wrote in the position of the 2nd member – the candidate for a science-calling expert is not obliged to deliver the evidence from Article 1 of this article's position. Now, Madam Minister, if you had been in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the other day, when the amendment to the Law on Higher Education was discussed, you would have learned one big news. In one private university within two years, 148 doctors of science came out. Now you see how such a single thing opens up the possibility that one scientific calling will allow someone to become an expert. Can a college not be two years from now drive out 148 doctors of science? So many colleges can't give away two years for graduates, let alone a doctor of science. On the other hand, you know, when it comes to judicial-medical experts, you also have a scientific calling of a magistrate, and you have a scientific calling of specialists. Now look at the path to becoming a specialist, say, a maxilofational surgery and someone who's a master. It's a long way off who needs to become a specialist. It's far greater his education to be a judicial expert than, say, one magistrate. What are the criteria on which to choose someone to be a court expert? That's the indiscretion. On the other hand, when we spoke in principle, I asked you a few questions. Has the expert audit been done? You said no. Who's going to do the expert review? Do we need an expert review? I think it is, because of the condition in which the entire structure is located. The next question I asked was, is there a skill training? We think there should be continuous training. Is there surveillance? He's not in the law. Is there a professional association, a chamber? It doesn't exist. You see, all those remarks that we put to you in the principle debate, which I repeat today, are serious violations of the law. Take one law of Europeans, here I found on the site the Law of Witches of the Neighbouring State of Hungary, where these elements of the law exist, because one area cannot be arranged if it is unarranged. It opens up a variety of possibilities. I've cited a few examples of what kind of failure it is. In the end, we have invested a few amendments here, written and seen that you have accepted three, which is certainly a good gesture, unfortunately not this one. I call upon you to accept this amendment too, because there must be something, there must be some additional communication for the court's skills that will take place in front of professional bodies in a manner prescribed by the Ministry. We can't let them go like this, that they're wide open doors and that's where they come in as anyone will based on unclear criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42165	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The amendment proposed to add a new member of 7a after article 7a was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Amendment of the SNS, or MP groups Forward Serbia – SNS refers to the expertise of the candidate for the expert, as was the case with all the amendments before that. The SNS parliamentary group proposes to add Article 7a, which reads: "The skills must have passed an expert examination from the field of knowledge of the legal position of the experts in the court procedure and the rules of art. The examination programme is prescribed by the minister on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. The examination shall take place before the Commission of the Justice Department. The fee prescribed by the minister shall be paid for the passing of the examination. "What the government has provided as a justification for not accepting the amendments is that by prescribing a special expert examination from the field of knowledge of the legal position of the experts in the court procedure and the rules of art would create additional costs and extend the process of appointing the experts. In fact, it is, but in the opinion of the SNS, an expert exam is necessary because an expert, in addition to the expertise in the field in which he performs art, must know both the position and the role of the experts in the court procedure, in order to perform the skills properly. In practice, the biggest problems have proved to create ignorance of these very issues, not the expertise of the experts. It is a classic example of neuropsychiatrics declaring that the factor of the work was unaccountable, although accountability is in fact a legal question rather than a medical question. They would have to limit themselves to the state of consciousness of the defendant. What, unfortunately, becomes a negative trend in the conduct of court proceedings is in fact a decision based on findings and opinions of the experts, even when no other evidence points to the founding or non-basement of the claim. The court's decisions can actually be re-formed by the expert. In fact, what kind of picture is created in citizens by such decisions of the court, when citizens get the impression that they are tried and judged by various experts from all areas except the area of law? Unfortunately, experts like that are often inextricable and inadequate faces, not to mention experts. I'm not telling you this from "the words," I'm telling you from personal experience. For this reason, the SNS also believes that the practical skill must have passed the expert exam and we suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42167	40 seconds of MP time was used. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The word is Miss Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42168	My colleagues and I, on behalf of Parliament's Forwards Club, have tabled an amendment to Article 10 and suggested that this member be deleted. The position of the first member should be deleted for the reasons set out in the amendment to Article 3, which my colleagues have already explained, which regulates the conditions under which the state authority and all legal persons can perform the art. The position of Article 10(2) shall read - the authorities and institutions referred to in Article 1 shall designate one or more experts of appropriate speciality to carry out the skill or education of commissions composed of scientific or professional workers employed by them. Therefore, we believe that attitude 2 should be deleted because it is not acceptable for artisans to be able to perform employees that the manager declares professional, without meeting the conditions laid down for an expert. Also, there is no explanation of the concept of scientific and professional workers. On the other hand, strict conditions for the exercise of activity and strict sanctions for poor work have been laid down for registered experts. By interpreting the provision in Article 10. The bill concludes that an expert in Article 2 of this article may have completed only elementary school, unlike a registered expert, who must be a master, with a prescribed long-term experience. In this way, registered experts are placed in an unequal position with regard to employees in institutions and state bodies, and I call on you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42169	Thank you, Miss Budimirovic. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42170	Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, as regards the amendment submitted by Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic, it concerns the provisions of Article 10, where it proposed that this norm, i.e. should be regulated differently in paragraph 3. that experts performing skill-making activities in state authorities should be exclusively persons enrolled in the Register of Arts. As far as this law is concerned, I'd just point out that in this law, two degrees should have been foreseen. Furthermore, Article 7 lacks norms and the foreseeable possibility that he could not be a judicial expert who had previously been convicted by giving a false testimony, where he had skilled. This is not foreseen in the law, as in this proposal. There is no two-stage as regards Article 13, because in Article 13, when a decision on the appointment of an expert, brought by a minister, and against that solution, there is no possibility of a complaint being made, although the court is competent to provide for the possibility that a solution, which rejects the application for the appointment of a candidate for an expert, can be initiated by an administrative dispute, but I do not see that there are two-stages here. Secondly, this law has no criminal provisions. It is essential that this law also has criminal provisions, because an expert would behave differently if, for false or incorrect craftsmanship, he gave findings on which he leads the court into error to establish one day a judicial decision in some case. I think it's good, Madam Minister, that after 23 years you decided to propose to pass this law. However, this law should be an initial phase in the revision of our legislation, and, on the other hand, to amend and supplement this law during a certain period. When it comes to court experts, last time I informed you, Madam Minister, of a case that took place and a case conducted before the Supreme Court in Zrenjanin, in a case against the responsible persons, namely Miroslav Zivanova and other Agroziv companies. Madam Minister, the question arises – what is the significance of the artist in this case? It was one company that had 3,500 employees, but it had to be destroyed to bring Slovenians and Perutnina from Slovenia, Agrokor from Croatia, to destroy meat production in Serbia and to take over the market. It's the company's high value. The company was destroyed by those who made it possible for foreign companies to come in an unacceptable way and thus be involved in the destruction of Agroziv, and you know well that there is also a bankruptcy manager, you had the information that the Government of the Republic of Serbia had passed one rule on the rewards and fees of bankruptcy managers...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42171	Mr. Jojic, please connect the bankruptcy of Agroziv to the amendment of Article 10. I also ask that the items that have been or have been in progress are not the subject of discussion in the National Assembly's tribe. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42172	Mr. Novakovic, this is about warlocks who are witches in this case as damaged. This is the subject of the law. You're a lawyer, and you know what it means if a damaged person should be an expert in one case, as is the case in Agrolive, first of all in this company. To make things ugly, Mr. Novakovic, a man who has never had any business relationship with this company, Žilović and "Zilović" d.o.o. from Belgrade, he is establishing business co-operation, while at the same time becoming assistant to the bankruptcy manager and director of the company. The company now has damages of over 100m euros, and creditors are damaged, damaged workers, property acquired, and therefore I suggest, this will be the subject of both judicial and police, because it is of great value, where it was meant to destroy Agroziv and thus allow others to take over the market. Mrs. Minister knows well about this case what was happening and what was going on, but the damaged creditors are thanks to the expert, who from Novi Sad is one institution of warlocks, which is a private firm, and also as damaged in the case. For this reason, Mr. Novakovic, I link this up and argue that the aim of this criminal procedure was to destroy Agroziv, to include experts who would be skilled in the way that it suits someone, that the bankruptcy manager and the restructuring team would not allow the property to be registered, to keep that property safe and to enter the capital of Agroziv. As far as the artist is concerned, you're well aware, Mr. Novakovic, because for years you've had opportunities to fake car accidents, you've seen what's been going on. An expert is determined by a man who has never even seen an object in a nonexistent event. There wasn't even a car accident, and he's a warlock, he's giving us a hit. I think some of them responded in that direction. That's what Mr. Chikiriz was talking about, and Mr. Krasic told you best about the role of the artists, when he spoke about the skills we had in The Hague, and we have them here as well. The reorganisation and revision of the skills in Serbia is necessary. It's a good thing you decided after 23 years to put this on the agenda and get one law passed. But I remember when I was at the Justice Department, only someone if he knew someone from the Ministry or the administration, he became a judicial expert. One more thing that is very important, which is that the same institution is filing a criminal report, for example from the MUP, a criminal charge for murder is filed. The M.O.P. A ballistics artist as an expert. From the MUP, doctors and medical experts in murder and serious physical injury. You know it's the SUP who file criminal charges, and in no case did, I had it in practice, the expert remained stubborn until the end, according to the criminal report, it says almost in his report. I don't think if an institution submits criminal charges, that institution can't defend criminal charges through a finding. If you can, squeeze your strengths, eliminate the link, and make it work by lawyers of individual and individual arts. Remove the artist's monopoly. There are honorable artists, but there are individuals who are in such a state of mind, they have established a monopoly between law enforcement and certain arts. In this area, I think that an institution should also form precise criteria, but that institution should also be entered by lawyers, because lawyerry is part of the legal system, but also in the making of laws and in the participation of lawyers in certain institutions I do notice that the lawyer is neglected. In England, Germany, France, America, law is the basis for the election of judges and prosecutors. I therefore propose that a special solution should be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, to oblige the courts, from the basic to the Supreme Cassation Court, to inform an independent body that you will be able to form about the observed shortcomings in the work of the judicial authorities, but also to pass a law that should regulate this area wider. Is this for starters, this bill is what it is, but you have the opportunity to really prepare a good law in the coming period, but I would advise you to use a comparative-legal analysis and comparative-law practice, to eliminate all irregularities and illegalities in skill, as is the case in Agrolive. I'm saying this in the interest of trustees and citizens and workers who are damaged there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42173	Thank you. Eleven minutes have been used. Members of the 10 amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. By this amendment or by any amendments? You can't get a word in this because there's no amendment, because it's become an integral part, but you have time for a parliamentary group. Here, you have a word. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42174	I would like to thank Ms. Minister for accepting this amendment, but it seems to us that simply these members of the 9th and 10th should be one special chapter of the law and that this chapter of the law should bear the term "Institution for Judicial Skills", because it might open up the possibility of this law being more detailed, i.e. to be fully clear. I'll give you a law that's perfectly accurate and clear, which is why we have this attitude. So the institution of judicial expertise can either establish or abolish the minister of justice or another minister in agreement with him. The institution of judicial expertise is a budgetary authority, etc. Now we come to the fact that there's only a number of state bodies here. We intervened, in the sense that the City Institute, which was founded on these judicial skills, was also left behind, but we draw your attention and you will probably enter, very soon, into changes, or amendments and additions to this law, to bear in mind that this should be a special part of the law, which should have several members, where to the point that the institution of judicial skill will be reduced in one real way, to be fully explained by this law. Take the law from the EU or some EU member states, and you will see what the institution of judicial expertise means, what that judicial expert who is delegated to that institution must do, who has to stand behind him, who has to sign that skill, that such an institution cannot deal with any other activity, etc. Such a law would be a complete law and would be far better and more precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42175	Used two minutes and 20 seconds of MP time. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please, according to the amendment, a People's MP can come forward and that's not disputed. When there's no amendment, what are you looking for a word on? I don't understand what we're discussing. I read the amendment to Article 12. Of course you'll get a word in order as you've answered. First of all, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic will receive the word, as it is an amendment tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42176	My discussion won't lose on its subject, although I did report on the previous case. I don't think you're interpreting the Rules of Procedure clearly enough, and on the subject of the story of court experts, where I warn you that you can't discuss amendments with a decision on amendments. I'm using my MP group's time to talk about it. Article 143 of the existing Rules of Procedure in paragraph 4 says – each applicant of the amendment has the right to explain its amendment for a period of two minutes, with the duration of the search, etc. It can't be any longer. So, no matter what, we don't know if he's gonna become or become, or he's adopted, and if we know, it doesn't matter. We want to introduce the public to the content, this time to the good and acceptable, which we have presented, the promoter accepted, adopted, etc. You are mixing this with Article 151 where the amendments adopted by the proposer and adopted by the relevant committees and the Government, as well as amendments adopted by the legislator, committees and the Government, become an integral part of the bill, and the National Assembly does not particularly decide on them. Do not interfere with Article 151 and the decision and our right to discuss it, as in other laws, here is the previous one, where the Government adopted the amendment to Article 28. The law on education does not give me the right to debate, but this book, which has not yet been amended, allows me to talk about it. I'm simply asking you to keep the correct interpretation of this book that we're working on. The amendment to Article 12 will, by the right to use the time of the parliamentary group, explain my colleague Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42177	Thank you. Two minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42178	Okay. Since it has been raised that there is an opportunity within the Parliament's group's time to take advantage of that time and to present views on the current, both previous and new amendments. What's this about? I don't think this law should regulate this situation in Article 10 at all. It says: "Artificance can also be performed by state authorities." You know, a few days ago, we had a debate here, so I was trying to explain to some of them what all state bodies are. They remained convinced that they were in the administration, however, later resettled, so they realized that the word "state authorities" had its own rope and wider meaning. There are certain specific skills. It's hard for a person as an individual to perform ballistic skills, because it still needs to be done by an appropriate institute. There are also a number of other very specific skills that are simply not able, simply, not equipped with technical equipment, measuring devices etc. But then that's the category - legal faces. When it's said that art can be done by state authorities, it's a broad formulation. I agree with the Institute, the institution, the public institutions, that's fine, but, please, then you should call it right and call it – the Institute for Judicial Medicine, it's a broader observation of something within the state body, but it's not in the narrow sense of the words of the state authority. That's what this is about. Now let me tell you how it can look bad in practice. I'll take an international example again, Mrs. Malovic. You did not follow that, since you are not interested in it, you are in some other waters, but if you had followed the trial of Vojislav Seselj, you would have had the opportunity to see one court expert – Rayno Tunens, a Belgian officer, employed in the tribunal of The Hague tribunal, participated in the hearing, preparing talks with the prosecution's witnesses. He appeared as a military expert, an expert witness at The Hague tribunal, who pleads to be the top international justice institution. You now have on the side of a judicial expert the unity of the prosecutor's side and something that needs to be impartial, objective, that waist comes to terms. When Vojislav Seselj got rid of him, it turned out he didn't know what the gun looked like, that famous military expert. What can we learn from this example? We can only learn what we cannot do in our justice system. Earlier, Mr. Spasojevic took a very good example – police file criminal charges, but at the same time delivers something that should be impartial, objective, etc. When it comes to guilt, take the situation after the investigation goes to the D.A.'s office, what's it gonna look like? What's going to happen? For the sake of the public, I must say that in article 7, you said that evidence of expertise and practical experience is a confirmation of participation in consultations in expert associations organisations. Confirmation of participation in counselling, it could also bring a quotation, paid a man to fly to Budva, gave him a two-day lecture there, before noon Swedish table, 15 minutes of coffee, see a lecturer and then go to the beach. He received confirmation because he paid for his pension, perhaps even at the Brane Micunovic hotel, where the minister had recently stayed. That'll be evidence of expertise with you. Or, he says, he has published scientific and professional papers. Explain to me the construction engineer, the expert, what was the scientific and professional work he was able to publish? That the architect and that he won some award in Belgrade for an architectural venture, an architectural solution, etc., so that you understand something, but it's not a guarantee he'll know he's doing the work of an expert. It's just, the paper puts up with everything and everything. Put it there, as it is now, to prove the expertise of advancement he took a course, participated in a seminar, knew he was following a seminar in English, he didn't need a translator, etc. Why are you devaluing something that is traditionally a profession and profession? It takes so much devaluation to get through something. I'm sure you'll get through something, because experience is something a man has to call on. Whatever you did didn't come back to life. The latest thing, according to the newspaper, is probably those of the Zemun clan killed Krcun as well. You've gone so far. Krcun is probably the first victim of the Zemun clan. And maybe they were hanging around Ljubljana in May 1980, so Tito was probably their victim. That's how far it goes. That's when the press pulls in, and the free-thinking, free-minded intellectuals, and when they start to break these things, it becomes so degutant. I gave you an example. Your favorites, the great experts in some area, fought in front of TV cameras, and if there were two bullets, and a third bullet, and animation, and computer processing. What wasn't there? People were just horrifying about what was going on, and everybody was acting like court experts. Probably hundreds of cases in which they worked and their expert opinion depended on everything and everything, and did not want judges besides such authority to question the credibility, reliability and established factual condition, since, as a rule, the expert is an auxiliary means of proof used by the court. A means of proof? The evidence is a witness. The evidence is this piece of paper, too. The evidence is also an expert. We have now confirmed from him that he participated in a seminar on Zlatibor, etc. Then he says – certificates of professional associations, scientific and other institutions. A few months ago, there was a show. Those in the doctor's chamber were involved. It's the elite now. It's the doctors. They just didn't slaughter in front of Olja Kovacevic, with very conflicting interests. Are these conflicting professional interests or something? Probably something else. You know, there's got to be some authority to be made, but the authority we're going to trust, the authority that comes from something that really has a specific weight. I was just talking about what it takes to have trust, to believe. However, Srdjan Spasojevic made a good proposal – when you have completed the execution, then charge all the costs. Court costs are something to record the case, not the source of the state's income, because without it, the state couldn't survive without a court fee. No, you finish the whole trial, and then you just charge off whoever needs to pay, and not make an advance on the money, so it's blocked. If it's not blocked in court, then it's blocked in Kragujevac, if it's not blocked in Kragujevac, then there's no current community account to be removed from. There's no way to make a claim. Or, as the one in Arangelovac said, for overruns over some checks, life has made people have to spend money without cover, 56% interest on an annual basis. Now, tell me in court proceedings, what's an expert in economics? Has the green interest been properly applied by the bank? He doesn't need an expert for that. Is that interest rate possible? Anything is possible with us today, and those green interest rates. I know an object where they artificially used to cost the brand officially, so then how much it cost off the mark, so they turned the dinars into official stamps, and then the stamps were off the record, and then they went back to two thousand and I don't know how many years that would be in the dinars. Pure virtuality. Who defined the expert's task? The judge of investigation. As the task defines him, he does it, the judge looks at it, the prosecutor says – it doesn't fit me in the concept of the indictment, now let's do some new art, and the opposite side doesn't even know there's a skill, do you know that, neither does the suspect, nor does his defender. Nothing, nothing. They're finishing the job. How? The way it suits them, 16 skills. In the end, the state will pay the experts, etc. from the budget. Like when you go to court, you know exactly who's going to be a defense attorney on official duty. You know exactly who the lawyer is. There is a Ciric in Nis, in other places there is another. It's the same for the witches. Unless we want to wink and say it, well, that's not the case. You know what, we can wink here as much as we want, we can throw our hands in the air to make arrangements, but what's it worth when everything we agree on here is not valid on the street, it doesn't apply to these buildings with a big clock they call court. The halls don't work. It doesn't apply in life. Since it does not apply in life, why do we write a law that cannot be applied, or it will eventually apply? Tell me one instrument to prevent abuses in this area? There's no member here. There's no such thing as a member. Someone's gonna be set up, someone's gonna be relieved, depending on the minister. There are some conditions here. Well, let go of those terms, it depends on the minister, maybe on Homer, even more since he runs the ministry. What are we talking about? We've booked another area. We have beautiful laws, we have pro-European laws, we have ideal laws. Everything's fine, but we're not doing anything. We're not doing it at all. And, for God's sake, someone figured it out, Krcun was killed 15 minutes before the deadline – probably by a Zemun cunei. Come on, please, now put all the loose objects on the Zemun clan, and what you have left is on Sharic. And where is the answer for a billion and 350 million laundered through Serbia's payment turnover? Have you thought about it? That's Dacic's story. That's what the Prime Minister says. That's what the President of the Republic says. How a billion and 350 million were pollinated and that no one knew who had done it, and everything had to go through state authorities. Why? Because they controlled banks and all these other institutions. Tomorrow we'll see, probably Jelasic will be the first and only victim of that big affair. We have the law, thank God, we've solved everything, but something's not working. It hasn't rained in a long time, though.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42179	13 minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. Mr. Zoran Antic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the SNS is concerned, this procedure concerning the application for appointing, including the erasure of the court's register of skills, is quite problematic, it's quite inconclusive, and we have submitted a few amendments in the area. The main objective is that this discretionary right, which through these members is obtained by the minister, is reduced to some minimum possible measure and is also represented by some political position of the SNS, means that the discretionary rights of all levels of government, of all institutions, are reduced to the least possible measure and we very often endure amendments when it comes to such a topic. In particular, in Article 12, we have an appointment request. On the basis of this request, of course, a candidate for a court expert must provide some documentation, but it is not possible that, through some addition of that request, possibly through some additional documentation, the Ministry of Justice should issue a decision on the appointment, but if the documentation in the ministry's view is not sufficient, we are in a position to reject the request and to refer to an administrative procedure by a candidate for an expert, future court expert. These administrative procedures in our country often take a long time. In essence, they are both unnecessary and all this was possible in this particular case and through the adoption of this amendment. The amendment requires the Ministry to inform the candidate for the court's professional that his documentation is incomplete, that, on the basis of some 15 days, which we have put forward in the amendment, the Ministry is responding and that the candidate then completes his documentation, thereby avoiding unnecessary retention. We would therefore be in a position to be even and possibly with other candidates for judicial experts and to have the minister voluntarily decide whether or not he can meet the requirements when it comes to Article 12. I'm sorry there wasn't enough understanding. I think the amendment is quite clear, well-intentioned and that it would significantly improve the rights of future candidates for judicial arts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42181	Thank you. 45 seconds of MP time was used. The amendment was submitted to Article 13 by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42182	We wanted Article 16 to regulate, in a more precise way, the registration of artists and the keeping of registers, by determining the minister of law, which it otherwise belongs to, that it regulates the way in which the registers are entered and kept. We insist that another position be added, that for the entry into the register, the expert pays the fee prescribed by the minister by his act. It is not disputed that the cost of enrolling in the register must exist, but it is disputed that in proposing this law, Madam Minister, you did not follow the provisions of the State Administration Act, where it is prescribed that any type of compensation and obligations must be prescribed by law, or a general act should be adopted for your authority to provide for compensation of any kind. So you have the right to do so, but the law must give you the right to this authority to prescribe compensation. For me, there is an even more controversial way of enrolling in that court register, and perhaps a small number of individual, poor experiences that you are familiar with, an insufficient reason to tighten control and conditions for enrolment, but there is sufficient reason to tighten control and conditions for entering a low reputation of the judiciary, for which part are credited by poor court experts or those who in the whole online who do not experience their own state and who say, this is not our country, and those who are being damaged by such a judicial finding. To actually take a little care of who confirms those diplomas of graphologists and similar experts, what procedures and schools they acquire, because some of the experts you are as ministers, or the Ministry of Ministers, gave powers to work and skill, and that it is about schools that have no addresses, which exist only in online training, which are never included in the register of secondary schools or any of the people who are not registered under any of the laws of this country. I'm not going to bring up the names of those artists on purpose, or the names you've entered, or the names of those schools, but I'm going to give you one of the items that, because of the debate on this matter, I've been given to people who have been damaged by the bad and unconscious work of an expert. When you say that special training of court skills to get acquainted with legal procedures and procedures, which they must be familiar with, would be a cost to them, do you wonder, Madam Minister, and what is the cost of damaged by bad, malicious and targeted craftsmanship, find and opinion. We always have to measure how much what we get and how much we pay for what we get as a society and as a state. How much we get in a hurry to reform this species, how much we lose as individuals and us as a society, wanting to do some things on a shortcut, and sometimes it seems to me, grumbling on purpose, to the gaps that are happening. I ask you to remind yourself of one of my stories from the past called out, how a group of people from the courts, those who have been murky, who have been as defenders, have been obliged to grumble about how this state is experiencing someone else's and who, through the Republic budget, is being charged with enormous damages and differences for those arrested, and for the arrest, there was not enough evidence for those where no proceedings have been initiated within the legal time limit and so on. The figures on the burden of Serbia's budget, which are full and poorest, were charged by a team of those who know skillfully how to use gaps and cracks. I don't say consciously left holes in the law, but in this business and in what you do and what we need to help you with, we really need to reduce the number of these cracks to the lowest possible level, not knowingly leave opportunities for the abuse of rights, which makes someone wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42183	Three minutes and 20 seconds have been spent using the time of an authorised representative, i.e. the head of the parliamentary group. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted to article 18 by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment with the correction, the Legislative Committee did not declare itself, so the Assembly will decide on this amendment in the voting day. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Milica Radovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment, proposed to add a new member of 19 after article 19, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42184	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just for a little while. This amendment is based on Article 12, which I was just talking about, and in this amendment you can see, I would say, the haughtiness of the executive authority and the inability of the court's skills to, in the event that a procedure is launched for the discharge of the experts in any way communicate with the ministry, that they eventually defend their interest, that they participate in the procedure itself, means, to delete from the artificial register, and once again there is a discretionary right of the minister that, without any communication with the expert, decides in this discharge procedure. The Secretary's solution is final. The expert refers to some administrative procedure, the damage suffers, of course, and the expert. As I said earlier, the administrative procedure takes a long time, and I am really, once again, sorry to comment on the fact that the Justice Ministry, which should be ahead of some clear procedures, in some very clear institutes compared to other ministries, was not consistent enough in this bill and, I would say, even conscious enough of all the failures this law has and which have so far seen almost all the parliamentary groups, and it is a pity that it has not given up some of its discretionary powers, that it has given itself some discretionary rights that are truly inappropriate to the executive authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42185	Anyone else want a word? If not, an amendment proposing to add a new member of 22 to Article 22 has been submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42186	Madam Minister, if I expected an amendment to be adopted, then it was this Article 22, adding 22 members, who actually prescribed the obligation and prescribed on our proposal the obligation to prescribe closer to the conditions that should be met not only by a natural person who would be involved in these affairs, but also by a legal person. Then I was very well-founded by your exception, where you say that legal persons can deal with this business, even if it was state authorities, in some exceptional cases where you took forensics, took as an example, you could have left it as an exception and really stayed that way. However, it is not right that legal persons registered in the register should not meet any conditions, i.e. that they are not subject to conditions that apply to natural persons as well. There's no law of default. The extra head doesn't hurt, our people say. But I'm afraid from Latin to this day it's said someone's talking, but it's crazy, because they don't hear it and they don't want to apply it. Very often, as opposition MPs, we feel this way, but I really don't understand that you have made a failure as proposing that you prescribe the conditions that should be met by a legal person, in order to deal with the affairs that are very possible, we have found, even in the process of determining inaccessibility, that they are being abused. Now I will deliberately remind the citizens and you. It's easier to pay someone to declare you, for example, a prison doctor, with all due respect and apologies, those who can't be bought and bought, to be found ineligible, and to avoid, with the finding of a psychiatric professional and a similar profession, a 30-year sentence for some crime of rape, murder or anything like that, and to replace her with a sentence of lying in a prison hospital of two to five years. The moment the proceedings are terminated, when a court ruling becomes judicial, it moves to prove the healing of one who has been declared indecipherable. In a society where everything is measured by money and where there is much to sell, we should not leave the space I spoke about for a moment and allow the practice that is proven by research, that the time of healing is invaluable from two to five years. That's what the Central Prison prison records say, so go ahead and check it out. Why is that possible? Because there is no responsibility for those who place their expertise in the service of lucrative, diabolical work, to harm and reduce one’s pain by not allowing a criminal to be punished justly. This member of the law that you did not allow a legal person to have strictly prescribed terms, you indirectly allow the continuation of such bad examples. I won't dare say the same, but those who felt it in their nearest surroundings can say that. In addition, I insist that legal persons, namely legal persons, are far less responsible in front of all of us, says the fact that someone can start a company, enlists it in the register to carry out perfectly legal work of art although it does not meet any of the conditions normally prescribed for natural persons. Believe me, this law allows it. People who do this are basically saying it's possible. I'm bothered by what I'm going to repeat and what I expected you to respect, that the state authorities and officers who perform art, we only exempt forensics, you're absolutely right that they are an exception because there are no private persons involved in this kind of skill, they can do this work at a time of work, they can especially charge that kind of work, and they represent those superhumans who can, in one working time, make more fees for jobs like many superhumans in commissions, organs, bodies, and I don't know what all the invented forms of subjectiveity have. Not legally, to answer in front of citizens, but they have the legal subjectivity and form to climb into the vault of the Republic of Serbia, or the budget, and to show up with their jury and current accounts to collect their invested knowledge professionally, hard work and time in this kind of work. So skill is a commercial business. By allowing legal persons, i.e. civil servants, or state authorities, to do this work, to enter the fourth pillar of a liberal society, civilised society, which is to protect competition. In addition to judicial, executive and legislative powers as three pillars, the fourth pillar on which society rests is the protection of competition and the fight against monopoly. The fourth pillar, by means of an indirect introduction of state authorities, which will always have the advantage, is the fourth very important pillar collapses. Whose law offices first go to look for a dispute that will be won, no matter how guilty someone is, and how damaged the other side is? Where good shortcuts are known to be, where political friendships are rented, where a glass can be viewed up to half full or half empty. Please, in the name of profession, profession, in the name of being a woman and a mother, do not allow the court's skill, expertise and opinion, assessment of inaccountability or any other kind of finding of this finding to be misused in such a way that state authorities have the advantage of competing. Introduce strict rules, seek your sublaws, take this law of authority to edit them, and help that part of our society, in which we all look, and we all find ourselves at some point, at least because of a car accident ahead of an artificial situation, not to say we could have done something, and we didn't. That opportunity is ahead of you and in front of me, perhaps just today. Don't miss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42187	Five minutes and 30 seconds of use of the time of authorised representatives of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42188	Mrs. Comic, I'm going to go a little wider on the subject of Article 22. You haven't been before, so we've touched a lot of issues. Irregularity of the law, and I could say now, and the absence of the concept can be seen on these few members. You see, if an expert is a means of proof, if he is to help the court, since this law applies to court-laws, to establish certain facts that are legally relevant for judgment, if we say a natural person should meet and these conditions to be entered in the journal of an expert, please excuse me, what is the legal person now looking for? Legal person doesn't normally have that kind of subjectivity. The legal person shall be registered with the Agency for Economic Registers. The jobs of the legal entity, I think even the word "artificiality" in the legal person is wrongly taken into account, may be some evaluation jobs, etc., it's already a matter of activity. When it comes to institutions like the Institute of Judicial Medicine, etc., it is already a third category, where there is room to talk about legal persons, but if we are talking about legal persons and their actions that can be on the market, please excuse us, then we are completely on the wrong ground. Just because someone once invented the Institute of Art, so he put everything in there, doesn't mean it's supposed to be an inheritance to drag on for the next few years, I don't know how many years. If this wrong concept of the legislator is accepted, such as the quasi-vod for art, please excuse me, this legal person and his subjectivity for these affairs draws on the basis of individuals who are in a working relationship in that office, because only they can show that kind of ability and expertise. The legal person has no expertise. The professionality of a legal person depends on those who are employed and who do the job. There you see, this article shows the indeterminateness of the concept. It's a completely wrong concept. Absolutely wrong concept. Why would the Ministry now run a special register of legal persons when there is an agency that keeps records of companies? Here, the question of skill comes down to purely business activity, why not say commercial work. Depending on the court's case, you can order some evaluations. Why would they now ask the Department of Law to give that job on a commercial basis? Look for the Agency for Business Registers and see the list of legal entities that are qualified for it. There's a code of action and order some work. You see that mess that makes this bill. So, a special record of legal persons will be kept by the Justice Department. Why? It's not clear at all. Then you say in one of the previous members that the legal officer determines the employees who will appear in the name of the legal person in front of the court to defend their findings and their opinions. How is that possible? Let's move on, you have a member talking about some other institutions being able to deal with skills, the National Library, the National Museum, the Institute of Archaeology. Why? Because nobody could do that job better than them. They shall possess that type of expertise necessary to establish certain facts of the court proceedings. You see, there's essentially no concept here. There is only a need here to register another law that has been passed on the path of Euro-Atlantic integration, which we will wave and say that we have achieved allegedly European standards. Tie the cat to the tail. That's not gonna happen. What in our practice will happen after a law like this, each of us can assess. Infallible, 90% to guess what's going to happen in practice, what kind of monopolization is going to happen in accordance with the law. That's our problem. We do not draw, when I tell me first of all about those who are in power, who propose such laws, you simply did not draw conclusions based on experiences with us and in the world, and that only what has been checked in practice, which gave positive results to be installed as a legal norm and something that is necessary for us to allow in a court procedure as high as possible, as sure as possible and true as possible and to allow the court to make as legal a decision as possible. There's no guarantee in this bill, and that's why it can be called a failed mission, a failed operation. Probably if the key argument 126 or 127 votes voted this law, that, in some very short period of perhaps six or seven months, some new initiative would take place, that certain provisions of this law would change. There is again to be said – we must do this in order to make our law even more European. After all, for the last ten years, only such regulations have been passed, so there have been two simple excuses – we better have some law so we can go into the process, and in the meantime we'll build it up, or that's the best regulation, so we've met the requirements of the Mastrichts Directive, etc. There's a lot of those words that don't mean anything to anyone, or even those in France and Brussels, and here it ends up in the system holding water while the masters leave. We have tried with an appropriate number of amendments just to draw attention to the need to seriously edit this area, because in practice there have been quite these negative experiences. We have other areas, so I don't talk right now. Without the knowledge of one man, the fact that he was co-adopted by ordinary enrollment, which in court, which, in a cataster, happened that he no longer had any property at all, ended up in a municipality here at Belgrade level. Guys, now he's got to go through a lot of hard work to prove that it's some kind of forgery and he's not gonna make it, I'm gonna tell you right now. It won't work because that lobby that's behind this project belongs to some kind of building group and they won't allow it. A man will practically lose his property at about 70-80 square feet here in the center of town. I mean, I don't mean to speak to the community, or the name or the name, so that someone doesn't jump, so they don't recognize each other, but that's a fact. They go around people, they bring up their problems. The National Assembly is the last place a man comes to point out his personal problem, because he visited so many addresses where he complained, where he filed complaints, pointed out, asked for help, etc. He was welcomed by a good word, a warm, sweet word and a conclusion – we are complicit in your suffering, but we cannot change anything. The National Assembly must change in the only possible way through law and what is our jurisdiction and what is our activity this reality, the reality that should go into these legal flows. That's why we've submitted the amendments to distract us. As far as we're concerned, we feel that this law really needs to be withdrawn from the procedure, unless it's too late or it's not a matter of propriety. As far as we're concerned, however, there's no question of anyone's dignity or what he's done. If the remarks, proposals, suggestions and amendments are well-founded, and almost all amendments seem to have been good, because I must say that a good number of amendments have been accepted by the Government, probably with a view to improving this text as much as possible. And after the adoption of these amendments that have become an integral part of the bill, this law has not been finalised until the end, there remain some gaps and absences of guarantees, the absence of safeguard mechanisms that what is the principle and the first two or three members of this bill, are respected. There are many of these provisions below that may not be so clearly contradictory, but simply their spirit shows that it will take great volunteerism to get this pushed somehow onto the muscles. So no shame, no shame in this bill is to withdraw this bill and to create one perhaps slightly more comprehensive text, with many of these guarantees that it can be very effective to prevent the abuse of the provisions of this law and the abuse of skills. Of course, in the part where they regulate this law. There's that part of the abuse of art in front of the court itself in the courtroom that's not about this law and it's not the matter of this law. Of course, we were trying to help fix this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42189	12 minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 27th amendment was submitted by the People's Sent from Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposed to add a new member of 30a after article 30a was tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) This is the amendment that is the last in a row in the search of particulars. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42190	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you all for one constructive debate. I think this debate is an example of how the bill's proposals should be discussed in this respected home. As you've seen, everything we thought was improving I've proposed a bill we've accepted. And I'm also going to say quite frankly, there are two or three other amendments that we're considering, and if we conclude that we need to accept them anyway, we're going to suggest it in the voting day. I am deeply convinced that this law will be passed and that it will be part of a comprehensive reform of the judiciary, helping to reform the so-called. Justice professions. Judicial experts are a very important judicial profession, very important for the functioning of the entire judiciary, because, as the bill itself insists, they are given the necessary knowledge needed to make a judicial decision. We will also have in the next period, as I said today, and also in the debate in principle, laws that will allow some new judicial professions, such as public notebooks or notaries, to be introduced, as defined in some countries. We will also have a certain newspaper on judicial enforcers, and I am deeply convinced that together we will be able to contribute to this judicial reform being positive and effective. I thank everyone one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-22-0.u42191	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The honourable MPs, since the assessment of the time needed to discuss the details of the final examination of the draft law on judicial experts was that we would not be able to complete the debate until 1800 hours, that was why we extended the time, but obviously we were able to complete the debate. That's why we're finishing work for today. The paper continues tomorrow, June 23rd, at 10:00 p.m., with discussion in particular of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Act. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I agree that 103 MPs are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. a number of one-third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for the meeting of Mr. Radovan Jelasic, governor of the NBS, to be attended by Dusan Lalic, Director-General of the Directorate for Legislative Affairs at the NBS. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Law on the People's Bank of Serbia (Serbs) Before we move on to a search in detail, I remind you that representatives of MPs for the 5th point agenda are authorised: Parliament MP Vesna Pesic (Embassy Group LDP), MP Zoran Kasalović (Employment Group SPS-JS), MP Zoran Nikolic (Employment Group DSS), MP Vlajko Senic (Employment Group G17 Plus) and MP Zoran Krasic (Employment Group of SRS). You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijević, Gordana Pop Lazić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dejan Mirović, Dragan Stevanovic, Aleksandar Martinović, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Sreto Perić, Milan Avramović, Radina Buha, Mirko Munjic, Petar Jojić, Nemanja Sarović, Milovan Radovanović, Vladan Jeremic, Bojan Mladenov, Paja Momčević, Dušanka Plećev, Radjanka Jocić, Marina Toman, Tomislav Nikolić, Jurvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Kljević, Jažić, Javrštović, Savršović, Milić, Milić, Žalna Mirić, Žalić, Žović, Žaljavić, Žalić, Žalić, Žarić, Žarić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žaljadić, Vrjadić, Vrjadić, Žarić, Žalić, Žalić, Žarić, Žarić, Žarić, Vrš. You received the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
