ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39793	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. To determine the number of Members present in the O.R., please insert the cards into the electronic system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Momo Colaković and Milos Aligrudic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure called for Mr Nebojsa Bradic, Minister of Culture Mrs Verica Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, Ms Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, whom I welcome, with representatives of the Ministry of Health who are here, to be accompanied by representatives of the Prosecutor's office. I also invited Ms Neven Karanovic and Periš Simonovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Zorica Pavlovic, assistant health minister. We're continuing our work. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND MEDICINAL PRODUCTS (specificities) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Mašić and Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 35th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic submitted an amendment to Article 35 and suggested that this member be deleted. At the very beginning, I can't help but express my dissatisfaction with the fact that we don't get a single answer to the remarks we've made. We here in documents show that the answers we received from the Ministry of Health are not true. Nobody says a word and disproves what we're talking about. I think it's illegal and inadmissible. What's going on in Article 35? Why did we want to delete it? Medicinal products may be placed on the market under a certain procedure and are authorised under strict principles for their placing on the market. You now have a vague situation with this article 35, that you can use some other medicines that do not meet all the conditions to be used in our country. What's wrong with that? Serious and severe illnesses, emergencies, rare diseases and centralised procedures. If you look at the explanation given to us by the legislator and if you look at the answer that we have received, then you will see that it is primarily there that you need to be innovative medicines, new, permits to be put on the market. What does that mean? Our citizens should be guinea pigs and new drugs should be examined on us, not sufficiently examined and without complete documentation. Unnecessarily, the introduction of this member is necessary, as this destroys the basic concept of the World Health Organization on essential medicines that are necessary for all countries of the world. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39795	The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted the 25th amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) He has the word Milet Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39796	Ladies and gentlemen, in our interventions, we wanted this member, as risky as he is, to kind of change, to limit the length, the period of time in which the drug authorisation can be issued in the first 12 months, each subsequent reissue of the permit to be reduced to six months, and to make a commitment to the promoter, sponsor, producer, importer, regardless of who submitted the request to the Agency, to document their data with new clinical achievements. This is very important because in the opinion of the 5th of the same member, we note the possibility, without any valid medical documentation, a medicinal product under the designation – urgent, necessary for the treatment of the emergency situation, especially the need of the state and society, can be imported and, from year to year, the extension can be found on the list permanently, in the amount of five years, which is given for the regular authorisation procedure, with all necessary documentation. True, this member also camouflages the fact that a centralized procedure for some medications has been conducted. In paragraph 5, this is all due to a request. So we think that we need to limit and force the promoter or sponsor, or whoever, on behalf of that drug, comes before the Agency, every six months, to enrich new evidence and make new information that the cure is safe and secure, so that as such, this clause can pass - urgently. Such a clause can bring various medicines to the Serbian market, but it is not of interest to Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39797	Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Masic and Milan Knezevic. Mr. Prince, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39798	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 35, and this article of the 35th concerns a conditional medical license. In paragraph 5, we have in the law that in emergency situations where public health is at risk, a conditional authorisation for a medicinal product may be granted exceptionally without all the prescribed information in Article 29(2) and (3). These points 2 and 3 in Article 29, not to enter into details, include many essential characteristics of the drug, pharmaceutical-chemical-biological, pharmacological-toxicological, with all components of usefulness, drug harmfulness and all relevant indicators. In this procedure, we believe that giving drugs that do not meet these basic criteria and the situation that perhaps some under-examination drugs can be used, with incomplete data on their usefulness or harmfulness, we added that along with this read part of Article 5, the supplement – that this medicine is authorised according to a centralised procedure obtained in the EU or from the American Food and Drug Agency. It means that there is at least one safety and certificate of drug verification, and our amendment has been rejected because it calls for an explanation for the amendment of counterpart Martinovic, on the other hand, and that this is the harmonisation of all processes in the field of medicines with EU regulations. We believe that this amendment should have been accepted and thus avoided that unverified medications, under-tested medications are in some way tested and subsequently formed complete documentation. We find our amendment appropriate and correct this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39799	Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39800	Ladies and gentlemen, as Article 35 has introduced a simplified procedure that some medicines that do not have complete documentation can be used in our country and thus comes out to meet large pharmacology firms, same as this Article 36, which we propose to delete, another category is introduced. In addition to the parole, there should be a permit under special circumstances. Just to remind you, in Article 260 of the law, there is a possibility that, in emergency conditions, it is also allowed under a special eased procedure for the application of medicines in our country. Now it's quite clear why we advocate not to allow this. It is precisely because many of the medicines on our market are not safe because control is not responding. This is said in a clear study of the Twinning Project of the French – that inspection is the worst part of our control system. What has the competent ministry done – decapitated the Agency by firing 70 employees and now the Agency has 150 employees? According to the Tvining project recommendations, which has been done for two and a half years, there should be 215 people – who should do this job. I'm just reading a letter from the citizens, and I'm not going to read names. He says, "After cancer we bought one ampoule of torisel medicine and paid in February 82,000 dinars. After three days of taking the drug, the patient got all the unwanted facts and died. We ask, "Who makes the cure, who gives the permission?" "Please answer that too, because that is what the citizens of Serbia ask you. You allow such members – to enter the country all sorts of things, and you are told in the Twinning project, the French told you "the market is full of illegal and false medicines".
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39801	The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic, who wants the word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 58. The proposal for a drug law and medical means refers to the determination of the price of medicines. The SRS has proposed its amendment – erasing this member, as it is already stated in paragraph 1 that the Government is regulating the criteria for the establishment of the price of medicines, whose prescription regime is, as well as the highest price of these medicines, on the basis of the joint proposal of the Minister in charge of health affairs and the Minister in charge of trade affairs. It is the position of the SRS to – if the proposal for the price of medicines is given by the Government and the Ministry of Trade, then this member should not be in this law. The Government's explanation for not accepting this amendment states, among other things, that it is necessary for Article 58 to remain an integral part of the law, in order to create a legal basis for regulating the criteria for the formation of drug prices, as well as for making a decision on the price of medicines by the Government. Otherwise, under Article 2 of this proposal, it is clearly written – that the marketing authorisation holder forms the prices of medicinal products for human use, whose regime is without a prescription, and that it is obliged to provide information to the Ministry of Health Affairs on the prices of these medicinal products at least once during the calendar year.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39803	National MPs Milet Poscurica, Zoran Masic and Milan Knezevic submitted together to the 74th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Oh, no? A fellow Prince wants a word, he's usually fast, and this time he wasn't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39804	Our amendment refers to Article 74(1) where we have an Ethics Committee decision in Article 74. It is now foreseen, when complete documentation is formed for one drug, that the Ethics Committee makes a decision within 60 days. We believe that we need to speed up the procedure and that this deadline should be shortened to 30 days and not only in this article, but also later in other members, where we have made amendments – we have made amendments that unnecessary administrative extension of the deadline for decision-making, especially the Ethics Committee, where we can make decisions within a very short period of time when the documentation is completed. That is why we propose - that the deadline of 60 days be reduced to 30 days for the decision of the Ethics Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39805	The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to the 75th Amendment. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39806	Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to sort of explain this article, since it seems to be in collegiate with Article 61(2), where there is a ban on clinical trial of medicines related to gene therapy. Now the "I" bond may now seem wrong, but maybe if you were some other ally, the "a" preposition, and if you were closer to referring to genetic therapy, which works on the german lines of the subjects, maybe that would be clear in some way. In the way it is written – that such tests cannot be conducted, and now in Article 75. "that there may be clinical studies on medicines related to gene therapy", it simply seems a little unbulful. Maybe we should get this technical. We said that in the principle debate. We expected someone to do it, but it simply wasn't possible to do it except – wipe or throw out the possibility of giving therapy at all. Because these are the early stages of the study, the second stage probably and the question is how ready we are for it. There's a 90-day deadline, plus 90, plus a normal 30, and that's 210, seven months, that's going to decoup a lot of interested houses that would do that, a lot of sponsors of interrogations, and the question is how much we're prepared for it. Do we have such experts in the country, do we have abroad? Who's going to pay the Ethics Committee if they ask for that opinion? Will the sponsor pay for it, or is it better to come with a final opinion – it brings a lot of uncertainty? We went with some kind of minimal intervention to cut deadlines. Perhaps it would be better for these two members to be audited – to have them agree, because they seem inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39807	Members of the 75th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Masic and Milan Knezevic. Mr. Prince, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39808	Here, it's a similar situation again. I just said that in a few members of our amendments we wanted to shorten this administration and procedure, i.e. We find it unnecessary for these deadlines to be this long, especially when it comes to complete documentation and complete documentation for a drug. So in paragraph 2, we believe that this 90-day deadline, which is an extension of the Ethics Committee's decision, should be reduced to 60. Why? In all these members, they're unnecessary everywhere, if they were to add all these terms, i.e. really within the deadlines – the administration is wasting practically a great time, it is absolutely unnecessary and therefore we suggest that the deadline be reduced to 60 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39809	National MPs Milet Poscurica, Zoran Masic and Milan Knezevic submitted together to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The government, by the way, and the Health and Family Committee, have accepted this amendment. Mr. Pokurica, you want the word after all, do you? (Miletta Pocurica: It's okay. It's okay. National MPs Milet Poscurica, Zoran Masic and Milan Knezevic submitted together to the 80th amendment. Mr. Knezevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39810	There, the previous amendment has been accepted. In fact, our two amendments have been accepted, which means - in a proper way, the government has respected our opinion. Here again, the same story that repeats itself, except now they're deadlines again -- for reviewing the application for authorisation to conduct a clinical trial of the drug. Again, we propose and set a deadline for the Agency to consider a request for authorisation of clinical trial and authorisation no later than 60 days after the completion of the request has been established. Again, an unnecessary period is needed, especially if all parameters are relevant in the documentation. We also suggested that the deadline should be reduced to 30 days, I repeat again, so that the procedure which was administrative in nature would be shortened. We're always trying, not only in this segment, but in many segments we're criticizing too long a procedure that applies to this administrative flow of any kind, and here, as far as the drugs are concerned, there's so much administration, so it's unnecessary and it needs to be cut to 30 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39811	National MPs Milet Poscurica, Zoran Masic and Milan Knezevic submitted together to the 81st amendment. Mr. Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39812	The story of about five amendments with the same terms, none of which were adopted, and the argument would be mostly the same, if I didn't repeat myself too much, so here in this article 81 again we asked and we suggested that the 90-day period be reduced to 60 days. The reasons for the rejection of all these amendments to the deadlines are that a solution has been given in the draft law more comprehensively since it is in line with Directive 2001/20 of the EU. I don't know what the directive says in these details, but we don't understand why, in all places, these deadlines are extending. In the regular procedure, and even in the accelerated, much more has been given to time terms that are longer and unnecessary in all segments, so this is also an absolute general application of the law. Although the explanation is given as it is, we think it is unnecessary and that the agency could still reduce all these terms to an appropriate period, and that's all there about 30 days when the documentation is complete.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39813	The 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go, Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39814	In front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, we submitted an amendment to Article 84, where we asked that item 2 be added after Article 1, which reads: "If the sponsor does not submit the same documentation to the main researcher of the clinical drug, on the basis of which the Agency has approved him to conduct a clinical study of the drug, he is prohibited from conducting clinical research of the drug and is initiating criminal proceedings." Why did we think that? First of all, because we felt it was very important to control everything that was related to the drugs, that is to say, to control seriously and responsibly everything that is related to the health of the population, because so far we have had many unkind phenomena. This practice is not interrupted, and we feel that it is certainly necessary to punish one, not only financially, who tries this kind of abuse, but also criminally. In response to why the amendment was rejected, it was said that, among other things, this was not foreseen by the Criminal Law, but, my God, so many times we've changed the Criminal Law, complemented it, so I think this kind of abuse has room to be treated in the Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39815	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milet Poscurica to Article 87. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39816	You see, with this amendment, it's very important. The position, place and role of inspectors, on behalf of the agency, by order of the minister, by routine procedure, shall be considered and checked on how to conduct a clinical study on sites where clinical studies are conducted. It's one legitimate phenomenon, it would be evil if it wasn't there, then they could do what researchers would want in agreement with the sponsor and it's very useful. I don't think there's anything to object to, and it's probably everywhere. Maybe it's just more rigid somewhere, not somewhere, but what we wanted to change with the amendment is when a decision is made to term a study or a temporary interruption, a delay, a stop or a final interruption of a study, perhaps, in addition to the opinion of the inspector, because of some specific situations, the opinion of researchers, or the opinion of the Ethics Committee, as well as the opinion of experts on the list of experts. At times, an inspector may order a suspension or, worse still, a termination of the study at the very end of the study, because of some reported harmful effect or unwanted events. Then indeed, the sponsor will be in trouble that he can't have the data that was brought almost to an end. By doing so, the self-will of an inspector, who can sometimes be present, would be channelled to a significant extent by inspectors. We have a list of experts, they could be an advisory body. When, with such a serious proposal, the inspector goes before the minister, or before the agency, who applies to the minister, we think that this amendment could be adopted, that he would not change anything, in order to give certain certainty that the inspector first and foremost checks the procedure and respects the procedure that is in line with clinical practice and then, as a rule, there is no dilemma. We don't know why this didn't come to an understanding. It's only been given here on the importance of inspectors, he hasn't diminished at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39817	Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Masic and Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milet Poscurica, Predrag Mijatovic and Milan Knezevic submitted to the 91st Amendment. Mr. Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39818	In Article 91, we have a position 2 and we suggest that it be deleted, and this position 2 says that the competent ministry suspends or prohibits the conduct of a clinical trial of the medicinal product referred to in Article 1 of this Act, on the basis of inspections carried out in accordance with the law. You have absolutely the same explanation in Article 87(3). - the competent ministry... Well, not to read, so we absolutely have a formula for the situation where inspection surveillance can stop, or stop the clinical trial. We believe, in particular, that the amendment to the 87th that we submitted was adopted, that it was tied up and that because there is this legal formulation in this previous article, this position 2 in Article 91 is absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39819	The 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Here you go, Mrs. Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39820	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment to Article 95, which reads: Article 95(2) of the word "issued out by the competent ministry" is replaced by the words "issued out by the agency". We explained – the agency is highly trained and qualified to issue such a licence. This introduces practice from developed countries. The Agency for Medicinal Products should be European, as well as all other European agencies, not the health minister. We believe that the proposed law confuses the registration of gallenical drugs, so the question is why is it necessary for the minister to give his consent on the list of gallenical products? In no country in Europe, the minister, regardless of the quantity of the series, does prescribe what these medicines can be done in galenical laboratories. Laboratorys are especially important because the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices as a state institution cannot be admitted to the training of pharmacists to pass through the laboratory and control of medicines. Also, it's not a good solution from the bill that doctors and veterinarians control drugs. In only two or three European countries, drug control is carried out outside the medicines agency. The SRS considers this proposal to have given too much authority to the Minister of Health, thus reducing the importance of the pharmaceutical profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39821	The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the SRS seem to want to get something that's impossible. We're looking for answers, we're looking for a debate, and there's no debate. I received almost a warning because I protested, in a way, that we have unskilled persons who need to defend the law and lead the debate with us. I don't think that makes any sense. We heard about Mr. Chiplic that he has the qualifications so much that he graduated from med school. Mr. Bradic responded competently by having a family member in the family. We don't know what Mrs Samardzic can make out of qualifications. I'm not insulting the government. I know the government's making a proposal. We know that Minister Dacic signed it, and we don't object because of it, we just demand a qualified debate to be told to us - are we when we bring the facts to the truth or are we telling the truth? Simply to say, gentlemen of the SRS you're not telling the truth, it's simply not true. Please, that's all we ask. This is the highlight, this member, one of the peaks of this law. Here, I read what the first attitude says. He says: "A qualified pharmacist responsible for the release of a batch of drugs is obliged to have a license to do the job of a qualified pharmacist responsible for the placing on the market of a particular type of medicine in a particular pharmaceutical form." And then in attitude 2, something that is really surprising, he says, "The person of the 1st member's position is issued by the minister in charge of health care licensing." Be careful, Minister of Health, who doesn't even have to be a doctor, will issue a license to someone that is qualified to do what is the most sophisticated job can do. So, guys, where's that?- I'm sorry. Well, that's nowhere to be found. To hear what the answer is. And here, in the first position of the argument, he says, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that issuing a licence for a qualified pharmacist responsible for the release of a series of medicines into the market is not a function of achieving health care." Imagine, it is not in the function of the health of the people to control the drugs and give permission to someone who is qualified. Here's the answer. Please respond. Answer what you wrote. How is it not operational? If we assume that's true what you said - that it is not in the function of the health of the people, then what does the Minister of Health want? Then how did he just declare himself responsible for this? Please respond to what's written here. And also our presidency, which leads to a heated debate, I'm also asking to protect our MPs, because we're taking this risk that we're either talking total false or we're talking total nonsense, and I'm just going to remind you, here three minutes are up, now I'm wasting the time of the parliamentary group, we're still not going to answer a lot of words, that we're kind of bringing this story down a little bit. The pharmaceutical association didn't discuss the bill. The pharmaceutical core was present on the Committee and you have a circulatory letter that is addressed to a hundred addresses in Serbia and to competent places. I'm holding that circulatory letter now in my hand. What we also need to establish the Health Committee for the first time, which began to work in full co-operation, with the quorum, did not support this law. Be aware that this law has no support for various reasons, that we do not enter all these reasons, but there is no support or parent committee. So, what's going on? It happens with this law that Vukosava Stevanović, the Ph.D. of Pharmacy, signed for the Farmaceutal core, that the health of the people of the Ministry of Health assumed groups that Professor Kacic, and Professor Kazic is my teacher of pharmacology, a very prominent person who has written powerful textbooks and who is also very active today on the plan of pharmacology, says he calls the three-way alliance: industry, medicine and media. And now, Professor Kazic, what he says is, "In this new Bermuda Triangle, there is a whirlwind where truth, honor and honesty disappear, and great profits are made." We have argued, we are not responsible, and we claim that this law has not been passed in the interests of citizens and in the interest of providing safe, quality, efficient and cheap medicines. That's not what this law is interested in. This is the law, which again says in this letter – the law, according to the rapporteur's explanation, is made up in the interest of industry, which is equally the interest of profit. That's quite clear. Therefore, no one responds to our remarks, which is not allowed. What kind of parliament is this, what kind of democratic legal debate is this? We have told you that the SRS proposal has been constructive, we have proposed to you an agency with the reputation of European countries and other developed countries of the world. You said the four countries of the world have a similar. They don't. You cite Sweden as the first country and an example that it has something like that. There isn't. The agency is the government and the agency has an inspection of the agency itself. So we're asking the agency to be within the state administration, independent, to have an inspection and nothing more, and you're not answering anything, you're giving false information, you're cheating on us, you're misleading the public, and you're not answering anything. By passing this law, the Republic MPs, be aware that you do, experts say that, I do not say that, evil to my people. No wonder, when the head of our ministry is Mr. Minister, who gave his own assessment of the system, went abroad to be treated for an operation that is routine and can be performed in this country by 30 surgeons without a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39823	Four minutes and fifty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. It's available for 2.10 minutes. National MP Simo Vukovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39824	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the context of a time I can make available, I will still respond to Mr. Momchilov's previous remarks, which is, at the very least, distasteful. So, the objective circumstances that have made it impossible for Professor Milosavljevic to attend this discussion, I don't think there's room for you to question whether the resolution minister has confidence in our health system, especially because you don't have the elemental facts concerning his health situation, and I ask you that in further discussion, this is not a topic. What I'd like to say, what he's trying to replace as a thesis here, is that this law is directed against the right of patients. On the contrary, the proposed drug and medical law is based on the most modern standards and on the reputation of the EU's most developed countries, which you can also read in the light of this law, given that it includes all existing EU directives. I have to say here that you're very often inclined to discuss the laws, in fact, falsely display a public debate deficit on these laws. I must remind you that the public debate on the drug law and medical means took place in full capacity, that all relevant institutions and associations participated in it. But you're trying to tell us that a certain association, which I don't really have anything against, is called the Pharmaceutical Core, the only relevant institution whose opinion is unimpeached. I must remind you that, next to the pharmaceutical core, there are a number of other associations that have given a positive opinion on this law. I think it's harmful to qualify this law in such a way that he goes to the harm of patients. I think the patient is, in fact, the central motive of this law. Protecting Serbia's population's health, above all, has been the motive of proposing this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39825	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been spent using the time of an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. People of the Parliament of Pai Mamchilov, you have no right to a replica. Please listen carefully to others. The People's Messenger did not mention you in a single word, but the People's Messenger gave the information, as you gave the information. Giving information is not a reason for replicas. National MP Živojin Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39826	Madam Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Health, we heard large accusations in Mr Momchilov's discussion. Yes, I mentioned him by all representatives of the SRS. It states here that the drug law will harm the Serbian population. It's a huge accusation that doesn't stand. It is called for the Jegro Pharmaceuticals Association, the only relevant pharmaceutical association in Serbia is the Pharmaceutical Chamber and there is no further discussion. This law was at a public hearing. No one in the pharmaceutical chamber has made any major remarks regarding the law. I don't know where Mr. Momchilov's ability and the willingness to make accusations is so large on this law. Some pharmacists can make as many associations as they want, but the only relevant pharmaceutical association is the pharmaceutical chamber. As regards controls, or inspections, it is really illogical that insistence that inspection supervision belongs to a licensed agency, it should still remain with the ministry because it is the only correct decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39827	One minute and 45 seconds used by the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39828	Dear colleague, we would do well to follow the entire course of the debate and what we said earlier and what we said in the principle debate, what the chairman says we listen to each other. I was quoting, I'll do it again. This is the Twinning project, two and a half years worked, 600 hours, a million and a half euros spent. Assessment of the situation – currently many unregistered medicines, medical resources are on the market, sometimes fake. At this point, any drug can be sold without doctor's re-encryption. It can be sold. This law doesn't stop it. It goes on. That's what I explained, dear colleague. This situation is dangerous for the health of the population and is beneficial for abuse. That's what French experts say. It is also compatible with the EU's association, in which each country is responsible for its distribution network of medicines. It's also the weakest point in the regulation of drugs and medical resources. Dear fellow, follow-up, I'm wasting my time now, but I have to – strengthening personnel capacity and inspection, Maddatory priorities. Inspections, colleague, it does not work properly, based on the experience and skills of the current team, should increase the capacities and skills of the current team, especially increase inspection capacity, preserve the team, strengthen linguistics, in better coordination with the agency. It's even allowed to be out whenever you want. What are the recommendations, not to read to you, that we must have 215 employees at the agency, and we have 150, dear colleague. Did you really read this law? It wasn't me and the Serbian radicals took the burden of saying the hard words. You say - the chamber is competent, it's not, the chamber is a professional association, and the professional association is a pharmaceutical association, which exists specifically. You don't distinguish professions from professional chambers. That's what you need to know. We choose words. What we're reading, the profession said, the Pharmaceuticals Association wasn't discussing. We have it in writing, that's what we're looking for. Was there a discussion at the Pharmaceuticals Association? They say it wasn't. The tech secretary gave us the information. We've got all the papers. When we say something, we don't lie, number one, and number two, we always have material evidence. If this isn't enough for you, dear colleague, Europe and what she wrote, I don't know what's enough for you? Here, when you spoke to these directives, which my esteemed colleague Simo Vukovic says, it's a burden of law. Directives are technical things that change and there is no need to be in law. I've read what the Croatian law looks like, which you're referring to...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39829	Three minutes. Right on line, MP Zivojin Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39830	Madam Chairman, as well as the citizens of Serbia, we know that you of the SRS really know everything and everything. That's what your community results show when local elections take place, as you always know. By the way, buddy, I'm a graduate pharmacist, research specialist and drug control, which is exactly what you're talking about, so don't patronize my expertise and my knowledge in this matter. Still, you stick to your profession and you express your views on it. I can agree with you that there is a need to increase inspection capacity within the Ministry, because there are few inspectors working with the Ministry. That's where I can agree with you. I can agree with you that there are drugs on the market that do not have registration in our country, but that cannot be determined by law. There are inspections to go after these people who sell illegal drugs. Still stick to your profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39831	You have no right to a replica. National MP Živojin Stankovic informed you, since you obviously did not know what was in the profession. That's not the reason for the replica. You have no right to a replica. Please don't throw it away, that's the reason for the warning, based on the Rules of Procedure we all call upon. Thank you. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a drug and medical law, I have submitted an amendment, in Article 102, paragraph 1 of the word "competent Ministry" is replaced by the words "medicine agency". In this amendment, I wrote a longer explanation. There seems to be no understanding by the government and the minister, so I would read it anyway. "In line with the previous pledge that the Agency becomes a central institution dealing with all aspects of the safety and regularity of medicinal products, it is also necessary to submit the same application for authorisation. The Agency should be responsible for the inspection and control of the production and transport of medicinal products. The agency should be implemented by the ministry, and the ministry should submit sublegal acts that would regulate this area." The same solution should also be applied in Articles 103-107, 109, 112-118. I think that's unequivocally clear. I don't know why we shouldn't use those agencies you literally created with each ministry. I think those agencies should, as I've put them into account, exercise some control, and then report it to the Ministry. The ministry should pass that sublegal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39833	Anyone else want a word? If not, Parliamentarian Dragi Damnjanovic submitted to Article 112 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 120 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 120, paragraph 3 is said to be – the transport of large-scale drugs can be carried out by a legal person who has been authorised by the competent minister for the transport of medicinal products to a large extent, provided that he meets the conditions laid down by this law and the regulations laid down for the implementation of this law. With the amendment, I suggested that "the competent ministry" be replaced by "medicine agencies". The Government has not accepted this amendment, with the reason that, as part of the occasional transactions in the jurisdiction of the Republic, public agencies, other than inspection controls, can be given, which was regulated by the State Administration Act, and thus also by the procedure of issuing authorisations for the marketing of medicinal products to a large extent, as set out in Article 120(2). We from the SRS have also stated in principle that jobs in the field of authorisation for medicinal products, import and export licences and in general the transport of medicines should be carried out by the State Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, as a special organisation in the composition of the State Administration, and not by the Public Medicines Agency. In line with this pledge, the Agency for Medicinal Products should deal with aspects of the safety and correctness of medicinal products, so it is necessary to submit a request for the marketing of medicinal products to this agency to a large extent, not to require the competent ministry. The agency should report it to the ministry, and the ministry should pass sublegal acts that would regulate the area. This would avoid giving the ministry great authority and its dominant influence on the full work on medicines and medical resources. We see here a large area of corruption that would be greatly prevented by accepting these and other amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39835	Anyone else want a word? The 125th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39836	In front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment to Article 125, where we have requested that the number of '90' or '90 days' be replaced by '30', or '30 days', because we believe this is an extremely important and sensitive area and that administrative barriers should be reduced to the least possible extent and all deadlines speeded up. Modern technology allows this because networking in various systems is introduced precisely because of efficiency, and the administrative barrier in health care is very often known to be devastating and dangerous, and I think that here, just when it comes to health care and when it comes to solving some administrative steps, which is more serious, it is more administrative barriers for those who need health care in any way, so we felt that this deadline should be reduced here from three months to a month, that it is possible and feasible in modern conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39837	Anyone else want a word? The 135th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. This amendment was accepted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 144 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. And this amendment was accepted by both the Government and the Health and Family Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 144 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric, who wants the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39838	I can say that I am pleased that the government has accepted the amendment of counterpart Sima Vukovic, which is more complex than the amendments we have submitted. We asked for only one sentence to be changed in the article, to actually introduce "the period of validity of the drug is final and cannot be subsequently changed", a colleague did it much more professionally and much more in detail and it is good that the amendment was accepted. But it wouldn't be flawed if our amendment had been accepted. This is very important in all possible drug abuses, drug repacking, with a high suspicion of mistrust for medicines used, in real and true abuse on this market, means having such a legal provision, where when a period of validity is put on the medicine, it really remains final and cannot be changed administratively afterwards, as has happened with some very serious medicines and in very serious health situations, as we had just last fall. In order to avoid such doubts, it is important that the date on the medicine is on the medicine, and we know that it is determined, above all, because of some chemical processes that arise after the expiry of the medicine, to be final, irrevocable and for the user of the medicine, that information that is very important, so that it can deal with the disease for which the medicine is prescribed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39839	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 147 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39840	I have submitted an amendment to Article 147 and the Government has responded very comprehensively and, I would say, there are a lot of irrelevant things in this response. I don't understand why the postulates of the free market are mentioned here. It's economic stuff. The point of my amendment is not to run away from the facts Mr. Momchilov has already made, that this agency has far fewer employees than it should, around 150, and should be 215. On the other hand, the EU directives are automatically and technically adopted, which is essentially a technical burden from the legal point of view. In this respect, the amendment was submitted and therefore the erasure of Article 2(2) was required.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39841	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 148 of the amendment, did the People's Parliament want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39842	The New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 148, where we sought in the post-transport 1st position, other words delete and add the words "and withdraw a series of this drug from traffic or send it to destruction". Of course, it's about medications that deviate from drug quality standards, which can be very problematic and that possibility, that some medications with serious deficiencies, which are also dangerous in health, must be given immediately to destruction, should be provided by law, this law certainly. We are not satisfied with the government's response because it is not a clear enough reason for us to reject this amendment. As a reason for the refusal of this amendment, says – the bill suspends, prohibits or withdraws a series of this drug from transport, does not constitute a cumulative condition on the basis of which the inspection is conducted, but represents individual possibilities that the competent inspection will assume, depending on the specific situation. We believe that certainly, unreservedly, in any case medicines that do not meet the standards must be withdrawn and destroyed, not at any time available to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39843	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 149 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 151 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 153 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39844	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 153 speaks of the marking of the outer packaging of the drug. Point 8) on which I submitted the amendment reads - the external packaging of the medicinal product on the market must have the following information: the mode of storage of the medicinal product, if there are special storage conditions. I suggested that this formulation "if there are special storage conditions" be deleted, because I don't think there's a drug that's immune to the effects of the external environment. For this reason, I think it would be necessary to find one brief, summary warning on how this medicine should be stored, on how this medicine should be kept. I think accepting the amendment would ensure greater security when it comes to the correctness of the medicinal products on the market. I'm using the presence of the Health Ministry's representatives to draw attention once again to the difficult situation in the Home of Health in the Great Plan, caused by the lack of doctors. The doctors there daily examine twice as many patients as prescribed by the norm. This results in hasty work, a minor minute that can be devoted to patients and all the consequences have, surely, unquality health care. SO The Great Plan and the Home of Health have made one request to the Ministry of Health to approve the employment of three more doctors. I am using this opportunity to appeal to the Ministry of Health to respond positively to this request, as well as to the request that a pediatrician be allowed to work at a health center in Milosevic, where the largest collective housing centre for abandoned children is located.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39845	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 153 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, who wants the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39846	The amendment reads as follows: "Article 153 paragraph 1 point 15 is deleted". We have explained, it is not clear what is meant by the term "other data", in accordance with this law. Within these two minutes, I will relate to the story of our esteemed president of the Health Committee and the family of Mr. Paja Momchilova and to what Mrs. Vukosava Stevanovic said, which he did not say. She said, among other things, that she had had the opportunity recently to see the health minister's certificate for an import medicinal product saying that the external packaging of the medicine was not translated into Serbian. She responsibly claimed that many of the instructions patients receive are not approved by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, but by manufacturers, not to spend money, send to pharmacies in insufficient quantities, and often patients receive medicines without appropriate instructions or instructions in a foreign language. The SRS believes the bill remains an option for drug trafficking, as there are medicines in the transport that are not in line with the registration documentation that has an external packaging in Serbian and have no instructions. We also believe that this provision of the bill is imprecise, that it allows them to be applied so that there is a great possibility of unequal behaviour of state bodies in identical cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39847	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 154 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 164 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, and the Government and the Committee on Health and Family adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39848	I thank the government for accepting the amendments, but for Serbia's citizens, I want to say that this is a matter of Article 164. - advertising drugs within the meaning of this law is every form of providing information about the cure and the professional public in order to encourage prescription of medicines, supplies, sales and consumption. I suggested that the word "true" be inserted here, so the formulation obliges it to provide true information. Since the government has accepted the amendment, calling for an explanation, I will read the explanation. Daily practice shows that manufacturers, in order to increase sales in drug advertising, are mostly exaggerating their druginess and positive effects on human and animal health and thus misleading the public. This promotes unnecessary drug use. Drug manufacturers are not affected by the deception of the public. The solution proposed by the amendment obliges drug manufacturers to provide true information on medicinal products and their properties when advertising to the public. We're witnessing that advertising campaigns for individual drugs are so aggressive, so aggressive, so engaged, they can simply lead a man to simply want to use a particular drug. I even thought that it would not be a bad legal solution for each medicine, as well as for cigarettes, to make the medicine dangerous, harmful to health, unless it is used in accordance with the instructions and according to the necessary indications, when it comes to a certain type of disease.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39849	The Committee on Health and Family, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he submitted an amendment to Article 176, which the government accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to Article 182. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39850	As with an earlier member where we have submitted an amendment relating to some deadlines, so we have requested that the number "60" be changed by the number "30", or that 60 days be replaced by 30 days, because the deadlines are very important in the modern business world, as well as in the pharmaceutical industry, and every administrative procedure should be shortened and accelerated. We should certainly have a much more efficient and effective institution as well. If the agency adopts a 30-day deadline, we believe that the renewal procedure is fully justified to be carried out within a period of 30 days, also before it expires. So these are the two deadlines that we think would be compatible to return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39851	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 196 of the amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 208 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39852	The amendment reads - in Article 208, point 1 after the word "inspector" is deleted, and at the end of the line, the point is replaced by a comma and the words "as well as the Agency for Medicinal Products via its inspectors" are added. Thus, this view reads: "The supervision of the implementation of this law and of the rules for the implementation of this law shall be carried out by the Ministry of Health in charge of matters of medicine and medical means, the Ministry of Health Care for Veterinary Medicinal Products through veterinary inspectors, as well as the Agency for Medicinal Products through its inspectors. ''The amendment is not accepted, as the Government explained, because according to the Law on State Administration, the entrusted affairs of the Republic in the area of inspection supervision are given to autonomous provinces, municipalities and the city of Belgrade, and public agencies cannot have that authority. You have set an example of other countries' experiences, where, depending on the legal system of each particular country, work in the field of medicines is done by independent legal entities independent of the state, such as in Slovenia, Croatia, Italy, Sweden and Iceland, or bodies within the state administration of France, Great Britain, Norway, Romania, and that no European directive or EU recommendation has regulated the legal status and authority of regulatory bodies in the field of medicines, but that area has been left at the level of specific regulatory national legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39853	The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, wants a word. Time is available for two minutes and 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39854	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is the last thing I want to say today in this house, where we are having a conversation with the deaf, where there is no discussion. My esteemed colleague from DS informed me that he was a pharmacist, I know that, I knew by chance, it doesn't matter how, and he said that radicals know everything. No, we just said that since we don't know everything we've consulted top experts. What I was saying and what was the SRS' position is people's attitudes, experts who ran the Twinning project. I'm not going to name them. These are the people who ran the Twinning project and they're top experts. As far as the pharmaceutical core is concerned, it's not an informal association, it's an association of citizens, and one of you here said the other day it was the fourth branch of government. Here, you see how you treat the fourth branch of government, I don't think they are and they shouldn't be. We from the SRS want to tell you again – the Committee has not adopted this, has not even rejected it and it is a fact. Why not, we won't get into it. What the esteemed Professor Recic says is that in this Bermuda triangle there is a whirlwind where truth, honor and honesty disappear, and a great profit is made, is the current thought that you can find in the press, and it is about industry, medicine and the media. Therefore, we Serbian radicals do not accept, together with the people of the profession, top experts, that it is not in the interest of the health of the people of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39855	The amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic to Article 212. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The People's MP, Sheriff Hamzagic, submitted to Article 217 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Sheriff Hamzagic to Article 221. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39856	Madam Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 226, trying to correct this law a little bit, to make it more precise. The answer we have received about the rejection of this amendment is that this refers to the fact that the amendment has been rejected as well as the amendment to Article 152. It's about the adoption of sublegal acts. There's a kind of problem. Bringing in sublegal acts, I must remind myself of the adoption of a sublegal act at the Ministry of Health. One of these sublegislative acts is a Regulation on supplementary work. Let's see, the supplemental work regulation allowed someone to use state resources to work in the afternoon, even though he was employed by the state institution, and that additional work was paid to him. That's how you regulate the sublaws, that's how you regulate all the laws. That's how it's going to be with this drug code with your regulation of sublegal acts. So this has nothing to do with it. This is a very bad solution. There is autistic authority not to accept any amendment, even one that is extremely well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39857	Anyone else want a word? (No) We are moving to search for the particulars of the amendment to Article 230, which is also the last amendment to the draft law. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39858	During the principle debate, the DSS parliamentary group made a series of remarks on the proposal for a drug law and medical means. Unfortunately, these were rather lonely analyses, because besides the DSS MPs, it seems to me that only two other colleagues have provided an analysis and discussed the bill. This is certainly not good, because the proposed act systemically regulates a very important area that has direct implications for the health of the nation. The impression is that the adoption of this law remains in the shadow of the debate on the draft law on protection against tobacco smoke. The absence of a serious debate in parliament is only related to the rigid position that the writer of this law had in relation to objections from professional circles, primarily to representatives of the Republic Department of Pharmacy, and the Faculty of Pharmacy and the Medicines Agency, and on the other hand, and to the observations of the Association of Private Producers. The remarks moved during this debate that whoever wrote the law did not have enough hearing to adequately respond to the fact that Serbia is a generic market, or that 70% of the medicines produced in Serbia are generic medicines. Also, a poor formulation of what is a reference medicine has been done, and there have been reports of inadequate inspection and self-control of drugs and quality of supervision. During the principle debate, some inconsistencies in the pharmacovigilance process, i.e. the process of controlling the harmfulness of certain medicinal products, have also been pointed out. More specifically, such a formulated legislative proposal does not guarantee that medications will be satisfactory in terms of efficiency and security unless, i.e. When they get to the patient. As regards Article 230 itself, in a conversation with the legislators of the domestic pharmaceutical industry, it was said that the provision that treats so-called. The issue of extension of patent protection should only take effect after Serbia's entry into the EU. However, in the second Article 230, the time limit for the registration of generic medicine is only six years after the first authorisation of the reference medicine, which I think is extremely unfavourable for the domestic pharmaceutical industry and this raises the question of the legislator's will to stimulate the domestic industry in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39859	50 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39860	Madam Minister, you are the fourth minister to participate in the discussion of the Drug Act. In the principle debate, we were pleased to have the health minister present, Mr Tomica Milosavljevic, respecting all the reasons for his lack of presence during the debate in particular. In particular, the law was attended by Culture Minister Mr. Bradic, and then Minister Verica Kalanovic for the NIP, and you as Minister of Sports and Youth. So it's just saying something in itself, and I'm not going to comment on it. In a principled debate on the law in particular, and regarding Article 230, I have asked a dozen questions that I have not received any answers to. The first key question I asked about this drug and medical law was the question – where is the patient? So, what is it that this law should regulate? It is certainly that the medicine should be cheap, that it should be available, be safe and be effective. Does this law make it possible? Certainly not. The second question, since we're on our way, is that drug cheap? The question addressed to the Minister of Health and Ministers who participated in this debate in some way was – how much is the price of medicine in Serbia and how do we pay for these medicines that go to the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Institute? There's a very serious situation. In 2008, I asked the Minister of Health in writing – what is the price of medicine in Serbia and how is it paid? The answer I received surprised not only me, but it seems to me that the average price of the medicine is determined by taking the average price of the medicine in Italy, Croatia and Slovenia. At the same time, the health minister voiced concern over insufficient money collected in the Republic Health Insurance Institute's budget. Let's go back, see what it is and how much it's per capita in these three reference states. In Italy it is over 1,500 euros, in Croatia it is over 1,000 euros, in Slovenia it is over 2,000 euros. And how long is it with us? Not a full 300 euros. We're comparing ourselves, looking for an average from those three states to pay for drugs on the burdens of the Republic Health Insurance Office. Does that tell you anything? He who thinks a little bit will be made clear to him all that is done. Furthermore, this law talked about whether domestic pharmaceuticals were satisfied? You heard the remark. A moment ago, my colleague Mr. Nikola Lazic spoke about what domestic pharmaceuticals say about this law. Are the pharmacies satisfied? You've heard in earlier comments what the pharmaceutical core says. So what hasn't been discussed enough is what's the fate of unregistered drugs, what happens to smuggled drugs, what happens to auxiliary medications. Here, Madam Minister, since you are here and you are taking part in the debate, I can ask you, and I also asked Mrs Kalanovic – do you know what medicine is, what is a medical medicine, and what is an auxiliary medicine? When you ask such questions, when you ask the question where the patient is and when you have no answer, then you have to be concerned. When you don't have a basic thing, and that's the law on patient rights, then you wonder what kind of state we live in. The health minister in response to one question says that our Health Care Act deals with 15 members on the protection of patients' rights. Let's see what's going on in the state of Serbia, which is why so many objections to the entire health care system when this law is so concerned, in 15 members, about protecting the rights of the patient. Where'd the health corruption come from? Where'd the waiting lists come from? Where'd the smuggling drugs come from? Where did the serums come from and the serum site get water? Where does all this come from? Did that law regulate or not regulate? You're talking, you're doing each other, and you're thinking something else. This law is not in the service of whoever it's intended for, it's a patient. This law is in the service of the importer of drugs - the pharmaceutical import lobby. The law will destroy domestic pharmaceuticals, and then we'll get into the situation we were in last year, to import vaccines, so when we don't spend them because of the inactivity of Serbian healthcare workers, then we'll give it to some poor country in Africa. What poor country in Africa are we giving vaccines, and we didn't have them when the time was right? It's a condition in Serbia's health system. It is a product of eight years of ministry by Mr Tomica Milosavljevic. It's a state of the drug market, not to speak now because I don't have time for medical waste, how many of these things exist in Serbia, how many in the attics and warehouses, how many medicines have expired and we don't know what to do. Instead of regulating a whole area, this law confuses no one, no one's safety, no one's user, no producer, no distributor. This law is bad. This law is prescribed, this law runs somewhere forward, and it doesn't mean anyone who should benefit from this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39861	Eight minutes of MP time was used. The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39862	Dear Mrs Comic, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was encouraged by this seemingly seductive and charming rhetorical question, namely Mr Dimitrijevic's discussion, simply to think that by 2008, the same parliamentary group and Mr Dimitrijevic himself did not support the current health minister's policy. Most of his formerness at the health ministry in the mandates was also supported by the DSS. I'm simply astounded by that fact, but I have a few more things to add for the precise informing of the MPs, as well as the public themselves. So you respect, among other things, waiting lists, drug smuggling, corruption, etc. The kind of country we live in, you ask that question. I answer your question that we live in a country that provides with the least money one of the most stable funded health systems in the region. If you don't want to admit that with 265 euros or 300, since you often like to open that question, we provide a system where we have thousands and a half of drugs on the positive list today. In each country there is a gray or black market, to a lesser or larger extent, drugs. Serbia does not come out of that system at any time. If you want to compromise the health system and cause fear and panic in the population, where you were one of the actors during the campaign against swine flu and vaccination, then it goes to your personal but collective political responsibility. It's a very interesting question you're asking about vaccines. First you were a critic for why there was no vaccine when the vaccines were obtained and now where we're going with those vaccines. In order not to go back to that story, you obviously don't represent the fact that in this country, 89 people, I hope I'm not wrong, because of respect for these deceased people, died of a new flu. If that's small, then you don't appreciate the fact that it's a very serious problem that we've faced under the health system. You're talking about corruption. What kind of health system in the world has no problem with corruption? We admit that it exists, but it's not just the health system's absolute responsibility, it's the other factors. Did that corruption exist two years ago? Next thing you know, you're talking about the waiting list. At this point, we have a waiting list for cardiovascular surgery, primarily for coronary bypass aorta. You know very well that the Sucapacity currently available in the healthcare system in this respect is beyond any measure and multiplely used. Our 59 cardiovascular surgeons are currently working beyond all capacities and beyond the standards of all other cardiovascular surgeons in Europe and the region. On the other hand, when we were having a discussion about the previous law, where we mentioned the most important risk factor for cardiovascular disease, where smoking was involved, your MP group had an entirely romantic approach to it. So, if we want to stand up to it, of course we also need to reduce waiting lists, but also to deal with risk factors and problems that seriously undermine Serbia's general health. I call on you to discuss here responsibly what, we agree, the basic resource of this society, is the health of the population. I must remind you, you simply mentioned it, even though it was not heard in the tone record, you mention the state of the minister's health. I said, it's at least untasteful, especially from you in a party where you've had a similar situation. Don't come into a situation where anyone here mentions it. I say, at least it's tasteless. So Minister Milosavljevic never avoided an open discussion here or on the Committee when he was able to attend. The drug law and medical resources are certainly one of the most modern legal projects that this assembly adopted in 2004 and today, and I hope that most MPs will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39863	Five minutes and 20 seconds of time have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Time is available for three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39864	Mr. Vukovicu, we didn't say that in Serbia between two and three million people will suffer from a new world flu. We didn't scare this people. The truth works, Mr. Vukovic, "The Voice of America" in 24.7.2009, Minister of Health Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic: "We are talking to all producers and one of them have a preliminary agreement, that when the production of the vaccine is proven to be correct and reliable and that it has been clinically verified, then we buy it as a country for the first priority group of one and a half million people, as predicted by an analysis or three million doses of vaccines." How was this conversation held in July 2009? We didn't have vaccines in November. Who was Mr. Milosavljevic negotiating with? When you talk about drugs and supplies, I didn't make it up, Mr. Vukovic, there's at least one drug in every pharmacy. I didn't, Mr. Vukovic, invent more and more forgeries. That's what the press says. How are our inspections doing? Are there enough people? How many people are employed here? Who's in control? Next thing you know, I have expressed regret, Mr. Vukovic, that Mr. Milosavljevic is not there, I am truly sorry about that. I didn't comment on any of the ways in which Mr. Milosavljevic was being treated. I was talking about something else. I was talking about the price of medicines and I agreed with Mr Milosavljevic that it is not enough how much it is allocated to health care and medicine. But I'm talking about us taking an average of those countries that have five or six times more per capita contributions than we have in Serbia. We take these countries as a reference to pay for the drugs. That's what I'm talking about. That's quite clear. Don't give me that kind of thing. There are documents, and I won't speak publicly without a valid document, and that's the health ministry's response to how we pay for the drugs. Do you have an answer to that question? You don't. Don't ever comment again, at least what's true and what's fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39865	I ask you, People's Parliament, to treat your fellow Members of Parliament with respect, to this you are bound by the Members of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Simo Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39866	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously we have two approaches to the health care system here, that is, its concept. Mr Dimitrijevic is a typical representative of the demagogue, unsustainable concept in the health system. The fact that you may see certain political capital in all of this is your problem, but the sustainability of financing the health system and the extent to which we stand out and how many citizens are getting at this point is the maximum that could be provided. So, I'm just asking you, and that's what I said in the previous presentation, if we're talking about such a subject, like the functioning of a health care system, then we need to be guided by the dictionary responsibility. You're saying, we're taking prices for drugs instead of, for example, Italy. Of course you have to respect the drug market if you want quality drugs to be imported into the country. You have to act on the market. We don't want a time when in this country, drugs were sold on flea markets. Maybe that result bothers someone that it's being sold in pharmacies today, but that's the result of the ministry's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39867	A minute and 30 seconds have taken advantage of the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39868	Demagogy is when you get the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute in the budget and you say it's good, it's demagogy. And the debate has nothing to do with democracy when you can't influence any single amendment to that plan and you don't know how funds are spent in the Republic Health Insurance Office. It is not demagogy when there are waiting lists, and it is terrible when there are waiting lists in one country for malignancies, so patients of other insurance and other countries are being treated, while our patients are waiting on that waiting list. The public is presented in another way. It's demagogy, what you're saying, and this is the truth that I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39869	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? In the electronic system, MP Paja Momcilov was registered, time available and authorised representative and parliamentary group was used, so you do not have the right to reply. (Paja Momchilov: Very short) National MPs, it doesn't matter whether you're short, medium or long, you don't have the right to reply. The basis for the replica... (Paja Momchilov: 20 seconds left.) So 20 seconds says you have it at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39870	Only to a respected counterpart, Vukovic, 11 countries in the European region stand out less than Serbian citizens per head for health care. I read that national income per capita in our country is $10,000 per the World Health Organization database. Only the truth works and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39871	MP Simo Vukovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39872	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course and the truth works, you have the information done by the World Bank, which, of course, speaks the opposite. You often refer to the fact that you read it. You have to quote the source where you read it. Please, just to speak the language of fact. So, the World Bank, based on the project that was done here, has estimated that we are about 270 euros per capita. It's facts, and you haven't read it anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39873	People's Ambassador Paja Momchilo, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I read "Riport" of the World Health Organization for 2009, here I've been taxing. If it wasn't for you, I'd find it, I don't have time for it now, I read here the World Health Organization report, the European Department, and I've given you exactly 11 countries that are less isolated, for God's sakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39875	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the search of the bill in particular. After we've finished asking, based on Article 144. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, do the proposing representatives want to give the final word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank the government's representatives. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE TREATMENT OF THE LAW (specificity) According to Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, called for meetings in particular on the draft of the Law on 8-14th agenda, in addition to representatives of the proposings Saša Dragina, Minister of Industry, Forestry and Water Management, the presence of Željko Radošević, Dragan Injac, Mirjana Milošević and Milan Petrović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Momcilo Mitreski, Milan Stegić, Milos Milovanovic and Slobodan Teofanov, Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Dusan Pajkić, Director of the General Inspectorate, Dejan Serdar, Director of the Agency, Saša Orlović, Director of the Board of Forests, Jan Boscanski, Director of the Management of the Administration of Agriculture and Water Management of the National Administration of the Office, Uvršt. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Radisa Ilic, Dusan Maric, Vitomir Plužarević, Milorad Krstin, Srboljub Živanovic, Milan M. Nikolic, Zoran Nikolic, Miroslav Petkovic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Siniša Stamenković, Dobrislav Prelic and Zlata Djeric and a group of 21 MPs of the Parliament group "Forward Serbia", as well as the Committee on Agriculture. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee has rejected as an untimely amendment by the People's MP, Arpad Fremond, to the article. 1 and 69, to the title above Articles 70, to Article 84, to the title above Articles 98, to the title above Articles 99 and 99, to Articles 100, 103, 112 and 114, and to the amendment to which the addition of a new Article 114a is proposed. On the basis of Article 148(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a forest law, where Article 1 is said – after the word "use of forests", the words "and forest products" are added. The response given by the Government in the context of the amendments, where it is called for in Article 8 point 23, however, does not explain anything, because this point actually refers to the concept of forest products which are not present in this definition: the forest is "a complex formation of biogeocenics of trees, bushes, forest plants"; but what is found in the forest is subject to further processing, i.e. collection and sales, resulting in profit. This explanation would be in place if point 23 in Article 8, i.e. if you wrote in it the term "wood" to say that forest products are meant under the forest. My intention was also to find this concept under point 23 in Article 1, which would define the use and the forest products, because they are actually an integral part of the forest. Their use and processing, I would say, are special stages in the forest management process, that is, in forestry itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39877	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 5, and we propose that Article 5, paragraph 2, the words "five aris" be deleted, we suggest that "five ari" be not a limiting factor, i.e. a forest area. We have proposed, and you have not adopted – that the forest has its definition, despite all other comments, means "the forest is a complex formation of biogeocenosis" and with that definition of biogeocenosis it represents the forest. Is it going to be two, three or four acres, sometimes one tree is a forest, you know, in the literal sense of that word because it can provide certain conditions and preconditions to function like a forest? So we've suggested it, and we think that in this attitude 2, we need to delete these five aris or five aria area. So I'm saying again, we could increase that noise and thus not limit those five acres. Nothing is, to say, a special comment, that it should be five, six or seven acres, simply said – that the forest has its definition and that that definition should be incorporated into this law. The foresters know that, too, and they should know. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39879	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the People's MP Milorad Krstin has submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished gentlemen of the Ministry, I can tell you that it is a pleasure to see this number of experts who make up the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. I thought you might change your mind, then the Committee on Agriculture and accept this amendment to Article 9. The proposal for a forest law, in point 7 of point 1, after the word "second", which is usually the end of the seventh term, the point 7 of the ninth term reads: "gathering", which means the measure to preserve the forest, i.e. "The gathering of other forest products" then stands in brackets: mushrooms, fruits, healing plants, snails, and others. After the word "other" I put the words "unless carried out with the permission of the user, or the owner of the forest". I don't think I was wrong about that. I received an explanation saying this way: "As the collection of other forest products is more detailedly prescribed by the provisions of Article 62.". Furthermore, when I took Article 62, it says here: "the collection of other forest products (the fruits of the forest, the healing of other plants, the use of stone, sand, gravel, humus, as well as beekeeping and others) can be done with the approval of users". So what I've put on, just a supplement of this article 7, you've put it in article 62. This means, with the permission of the users and the same, that supplement is in your article 62. Only with this amendment did I want to – that what you have inserted into Article 62, that part of "with the permission of the user" should be inserted into point 7 of point 7, because that point 7 of paragraph 1 would absolutely give that point 7 a little more complete. I see no reason why the Government has not accepted this amendment, given that I repeat once again, that this same sentence is also in Article 62. I'm sure and convinced that this would seem, in my opinion, some kind of round point 7, right, and also this article 62, which speaks precisely about being able to be done with user approval, would be so legally possible. That would be my explanation for why I am dissatisfied with why you did not accept this amendment in Article 9 paragraph 1 point 7) Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39881	One minute and 30 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39882	Before I begin to explain the amendment, I would just draw the chairman's attention that when I step over time for the amendment, the time of the authorised representative counts. I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The proposal for a forest law to add a new point 3 point to item 4 after point 2) which reads "for the purpose of solving the result of the fire". Unfortunately, the minister is not here right now, but I would draw Mr. Orlovic's attention to what I have to say about this amendment. I could get an answer from the minister later, because I think it's a very important question. In practice, fire often destroys large areas under the forest and forest culture. In order to reduce the damage caused by the fire and at the same time create conditions for the recovery of the terrain by shaming, referred to in Article 16, it is necessary to carry out clean cutting. Tree trees that died in the fire over time, from three to five years old, especially if it comes to leafers, will dry up and lose value that they had right after the fire. In addition, without removing these trees, it will not be possible to do the reforestation. In the explanation of the government you gave indirectly you admitted that it was necessary to accept this particular amendment. You are saying in an explanation for the refusal of the amendments – how forest recoverys cover more phases, as well as the clean cutting of firewood material. So you yourself mentioned here a clean cut of firewood material. Now look at Article 9, and point 4, where you have the point 1) and 2) specified exactly when you can perform a clean cut. You will see that there is no case listed in the amendment, but yet you predict that there is one in the government's explanation for not accepting the amendment. If you want someone not to break the law tomorrow and in the process of resuscitating firewood, and on the basis of the performance plan normally, to carry out clean cutting, then you have to accept this amendment. Everything else would be the opposite of the law. That is why you have the SRS amendment to Article 16 which will only supplement this provision, if you accept it, because in Article 16, you also did not foresee the recovery of areas under the forest, I repeat, which were destroyed in the fire. I said, if the firewood is left behind for next year, normally if it is arranged by a performance plan, it must again be called by its full name and last name. So it must be called pure urea, such as some other types of cutting, such as sanitary, progeny, fertilized, protective, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39883	One minute and 30 seconds of time have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39884	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to welcome you and welcome the Ministry, with the largest number of representatives present at the assembly sessions so far. I submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to the area of change in the purpose of forest and forest land. My amendment reads - Article 10(1) point 6) number "15" is replaced by "10". This article says that the construction of buildings and use of other renewable energy sources of small capacities, i.e. small energy and other plants in the exploitation of mineral raw materials, if the area of forest and forest land for these purposes is less than 15 hectares. I wrote here that it's a 10-hectare number, because we know it's very difficult and it takes a very long time to raise one tree, one forest. I think that when it comes to solving an object for the purposes of energy and any other purpose, I think that in a few minutes or a few hours that forest is being cut down, and how many years does it take to raise that tree? Secondly, the forest, or plants as a ozone envelope, is needed to create oxygen, and we know well what other factories have to do with the destruction, and I believe that in this respect it is necessary to accept my amendment to reduce the number of 15 hectares to 10 hectares. On a piece of land, where it's done, there's probably not gonna be a case like this, but where there's no work done, I think you should accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39885	30 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to article 12 of this bill. We suggest adding a new position in this Article 12, and that this new attitude reads: "The user who is performing a change in the purpose of the forest is obliged to use the same area to change the purpose of the forest on the surface that the licensee has designated for the change of purpose". We believe, since the Ministry and legislators have their own comments, that this has already been regulated by some previous members or will be regulated by some subsequent members, that this Article 12 is important to this proposal. I'll tell you what we're proposing. You know, always that forest dinar or those forest assets don't go back to where they're supposed to come back. We believe that whoever made the deforestation or removal of the forest from a certain area, and has a desire to raise some infrastructure or factory in that space, that he is obliged to raise a new area of forest as he wanted to use in a certain place that will be regulated by law. That would, for example, look like this. If we know that Belgrade today is located on an area of 80,000 hectares, it is some gauge area of Belgrade, and there has been will and desire, or that it has been regulated by laws, and mostly forests around Belgrade, and housing buildings have been built in these places, i.e. there has been a change of purpose, and no other surfaces have been raised, for example, in the amount of 80,000 hectares. This is what I'm figuratively saying to know why the SRS wants to strengthen this comment, i.e. those surfaces, to increase the noise, that imagined noise in Serbia would be in safe hands, that is, in the hands of the law, without being in the hands of individuals or groups who want to do what they want to do in a certain space, and we know how it happens today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39887	One minute and 50 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which were submitted to Article 14 of the amendment by the Committee on Agriculture, adopted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on the Agricultural Representative. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 16(1). The proposal for a forest law, where the words "snow and the like" add to the words "lands under the forest that have been destroyed by fire". The amendment provides that the process of deforestation should cover not only unprocessed areas, but also areas under the forest that have been destroyed by fire, those referred to in Article 9(4). The minister is not here again to get an adequate answer, but again I am speaking to Mr. Orlovic, I hope he will convey to him what I would have to say about this amendment. This explanation given by the promoter is so much, I would say, confusingly and vaguely, that I am absolutely certain that I wrote a good amendment. Whoever wrote the answer, I believe it's a forest profession. I have the impression that this man in his life has not seen the live effects of the forest fire. Mr. Minister, in fact, which is not there, and Mr. Orlovic, you know well that when a fire passes through the forest, it leaves behind not only the deleted area, but still the deep trees with the weeded crust, say, in the height of the hive, with burnt forest growth, with shrubs, dry leaves, etc., and you say in an explanation that under the unprocessed surface, the surfaces under the forest that have temporarily become unobstructed. I really don't understand how you imagine it -- past the fire, now we have some variations, or all the trees have been turned into dust and ash, or there's been a fire, all the trees have temporarily disappeared, and then it's back, or there's a fire, and you're going to wait for the trees, the trees, the trees that have been burned, in four, five years, if they're leafies, if they're Chetinarians, the situation is more drastic, and they're going to get dried up, rot out, so there's gonna be a rain forest on that ground later when the assembly is gone, and then you're just going to go to take care of that firehouse. It couldn't have been otherwise, because the amendment I submitted to Article 9, which mentions a mandatory clean cut in situations where a good part of the forest was destroyed by fire, you didn't accept. I'd really like to get some sort of explanation that's a little more acceptable than this, so it can be understood. If we read Article 16(1), we couldn't see anywhere, and we won't be able to see that this is about the forests that have grown. It mentions the unprocessed surfaces caused by the fact of natural disasters, the surfaces of which failed to rejuvenate and rejuvenate, the areas on which devastation was carried out, the illegal cutting. But I couldn't read anything about the surfaces that grew up in the woods here. Then how are we going to get rid of that part of the forest and how we're going to do the resuscitation if we don't cut it first with a clean cut, normally, through a performance plan, trees that have been destroyed by fire, I really can't understand it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39889	A minute and 50 seconds have been used by an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39890	I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 which speaks of recovery, in the sense that Article 16(1) needs instead of saying: "supply" to add the words "areas on which tree drying occurred due to the occurrence of plant diseases, pests or other factors". The Government has not accepted this amendment for reasons such as that contained in Article 16(1) and Article 10(2). I'd like to refer to article 10, which speaks of changing the purpose of forest and forest land. Under 6), when it comes to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, it is said: "To build buildings and use other renewable energy sources of small capacity, in terms of regulations governing the area of energy and the exploitation of mineral raw materials, if the area of forest and forest land for these purposes is less than 15 hectares". I'd like to remind you that last year, we passed an update on the Mining Act. The Mining Act treats and processes how mineral raw materials are exploited. Then there was a change. Earlier, there was the possibility that the responsible forest ministry would give consent to exploiting mineral raw materials on forest land. However, changes to the Mining Act have abolished the provision, so there is no possibility of exploiting mineral raw materials on forest land. This is explained that even in the Law on Forests, as well as other positive regulations, there are no conditions for consent to the exploitation of mineral raw materials on forest land. Since these two laws are contrary, the Mining Act does not allow, because of the Law on Forests, the exploitation of mineral raw materials, and the Law on Forests allows, but a maximum of 15 hectares, I ask the question – what if the Kolubara Mining Basen comes across forest land; it is possible only to exploit 15 hectares, and then interrupts the exploitation. It's one example, not to mention other exploitations, whether they're quarryes or other kinds of mineral raw materials. I'd like someone from the Ministry to explain that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39891	Thirty seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Radisa Ilic, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister has arrived, although I am sorry that he could not hear my remarks on Article 9 and Article 16, but as for the Members of the 16th and amendments submitted by our colleague Milan Nikolic, as much as I tried to interpret this explanation for the rejection of the amendment, I failed to find a valid reason why he was rejected. In the attitude of the 1st member, you have not mentioned any mention of forest deforestation, which is, for example, desolation or desiccated, destroyed due to the functioning of plant diseases and pests. What is to be done with these surfaces that have destroyed, say, horseshoes or lepers or some kind of virus? Should they stay, I'd say, silent monuments to drying and destroying the trees because of decay or to resuscitate such surfaces? For example, in British Columbia, Canada, the underpasses have led to the drying of millions of acres under the woods, does that mean that such forests will not be remedied? Even less, I understand why you called for Article 10(2), which refers to the change of purpose of the forest? You may have thought of attitude 3, but he's referring to suppressing the occurrence of pests. We are looking for a legal formula for the resuscitation of forests that have already been destroyed, dried, and not for areas under the forest, on which the spread of pests, i.e. plant diseases, should be contained.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39893	Two minutes and 40 seconds used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 16 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At the meeting of the Committee, a representative of the proposer accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39894	I'm very sorry the minister isn't here, because I have some questions for him. As far as this amendment is concerned, Mr Miroslav Petkovic and I have submitted this amendment, which reads: "The programme is brought by the Ministry and by the AP authorities in the territory with the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry". We are absolutely aware that the transfer of jurisdiction is ongoing, but that does not mean that this transfer of jurisdiction should be within that scope that we have two separate systems. Apart from the unique information system, we actually have two public enterprises, two different planning and competences of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are only narrowed down to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or without the AP Vojvodina. I don't understand why it's done or why it's done. I am very sorry that this amendment has not been accepted, but what I want to say more about, and it is also about this amendment, is that some other amendments have been accepted on the Committee on Agriculture. This is what the public is not familiar with about events in the National Assembly between two sessions or between two debates. We had a principled discussion. I said my opinion on behalf of the parliamentary group on this law. One of the main remarks is that this law lays the foundations for the separation of forest management in the territory of the AP and the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Serbia, I have to say that formulation. What happened? This is an insult, I don't know if you've been informed, but I also want to inform you, and congregation bodies that don't do their job properly. In fact, we had a principle debate in early April about this law. On 13 April, the Committee on Agriculture was scheduled. On that committee were amendments proposed by a colleague from the Union of Duchy Hungarians, Mr Fremond, but these amendments were not submitted with agreement with the procedure, it was too late for the deadline, but MPs accepted those amendments as amendments to the Committee on Agriculture and so proposed them at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which concerns and which enter into matter a very dangerous one, which is that the AP is the owner of forest land in the AP territory and that, in addition to the formulation of state property, we also have a formulation of the property of the AP Vojvodina. On that committee, a colleague of the DS proposed those amendments on behalf of the Committee. These amendments have become amendments to the Committee and, on behalf of the Government, the Minister has adopted these amendments on this Agriculture Committee. I interpret that when the minister accepts something on behalf of the government, when he accepts certain amendments, these amendments become an integral part of the law. You're nodding your head – no, it takes the Legislative Committee to confirm it, but he didn't. However, a new meeting of the Agriculture Committee was scheduled on April 20th, where these amendments have been withdrawn more quickly and better. Those who stood up a week earlier said seven days later that these amendments were not good. But what's the problem? There were no representatives of the Government at that meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and was not the committee's competent minister. I can understand that DS MPs got ears from their headquarters, so they had to pull those amendments faster. It's legitimate and it's perfectly fine, it says how autonomous they are in their work in the National Assembly, but we don't have a return opinion by the minister. Until today, we do not know whether the minister, who has accepted these amendments, is now willing to withdraw or disagree with them or to give his opinion, I think he is also obliged to the professional public, but also to the general public, Serbian citizens, to explain why he accepted the amendment on April 13th, and then on the Committee on Agriculture did not show up when DS MPs in the Committee on Agriculture were withdrawing the amendments? This is about one very serious thing, or should I say, a very serious attempt, because, I repeat, it's one transfer of jurisdiction, one thing is when you empower the authorities in the AP to deal with planning, to manage forests, and it's another thing when forest land, or property, you want the amendments to make from one of the formulations that exists, and that's state property, to turn it into property of the AP Vojvodina. What I need, I think, is now a convenient opportunity, just to get this interpretation from Minister Dragin, is he also not in agreement with the amendments proposed by the Committee on Agriculture and concerning property, which defines state property as the property of the AP Vojvodina? It's about 11 amendments, and it's a very important thing, I'm interpreting this as one attempt to make a transfer of jurisdiction at the expense of our legal obligations, trying to do something that has already been seen in the previous period, and what has created a lot of problems for us as citizens and as a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39895	Four minutes and 15 seconds were used by an authorised representative. People's MP, from the time of the authorized representative of the parliamentary group? (Zoran Nikolic, from place: Yes. I thank you. In accordance with Article 27, I remind you that amendments withdrawn from the procedure cannot be discussed at the session. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Nikolic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new subtitle and new members from 38a to 38k. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted to the 41st Amendment by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the representative of the proposer accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 44th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) National MP Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) Members of the 58th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 58th Amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want to say a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger named Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 58. A bill of forest law, but before I read the text of the amendment, I would like to read the attitude that precedes this amendment. In the view of the law of the promoter, it is said – in the forests of the owner of the evidence is done only if the owner of the forest provides proof of ownership and shows the boundaries of his forest on the spot. I have submitted an amendment that is attached to this position and which is read – the owner of the forest is responsible if the professional person leads to a delusion to perform the deed in a forest that is not owned by it. So far, pages 8 and 9 are becoming pages 9 and 10. I would also quote the argument given by the Government for not accepting the amendments – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that criminal provisions prescribe criminal liability in the event that the mark is carried out contrary to the provisions of Articles 58 to 6. Proposal for a law, so the proposed supplement is unnecessary. This is about a member who's talking about a clue and you've called in an explanation for an article. 112, i.e. point 28. I think you've made a mistake not to accept the amendment, because this criminal provision that you're referring to in an explanation is only about violations of a legal person. However, the purpose of the amendment was to regulate one fact, a situation that mostly happens in private forests. But what is a very common phenomenon on the ground in the management of private forests, and to remind ourselves of those occupying 47% of the total forests, is that the owners of the private plots under the forest are doing this violation, which is the physical faces. However, you, in Article 113 relating to a violation of natural persons, have not listed this point 28 anywhere, in either of these three cases for actions intended to be treated as infringements, and are listed in point. 111 and 112. What's this supposed to mean? Is it allowed to do something like this, and then people are litigated with each other or with the state, if by any chance, by mistake or by deliberate entering a plot belonging to a public enterprise? Do you need to take provisions from some other law? I'm saying it would be a good idea if exactly the parent law that speaks of forests had such an important provision. In addition, in response to the non-admission of the amendment, you cited the points in Articles 1 to 6 in Article 58. What I'm talking about is about attitude 8, which absolutely has nothing to do with these attitudes that you've listed here in an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39897	A minute and 30 seconds of authorized representative time have been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) If not, the People's MP Radisa Ilic has submitted to Article 60 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 60. The proposal for a forest law, which reads: "Article 60 following Article 2 is added to Article 3rd and 4th, which reads: the transport of branded wood, or produced wood varieties, shall be carried out with the mandatory possession of accompanying documents. The Minister is closer to prescribing the content and form of accompanying documents in the transport of wooden varieties. In order to avoid the impression that only a clearly visible forest mark is required for the transport of wooden varieties, it is proposed that this Member be supplemented by an opinion on accompanying documents such as escorts, copies, specifications, etc. Reading the proposed article 60, as the promoter wrote it, gives an impression to someone who would interpret this law that you only need an authorized person, say the manager, on the equipment hits the brand on a wooden sorting and that's how you finish the job. Now, the problem with the amendment is that they are mandatory and accompanying documents, and I don't see what's wrong with that, because I didn't mention in the proposed amendment the tax type of documents, looks, form, size, I just suggested that you do it as a minister. I doubt that any other law will deal with what forest escorts or publications will look like, as they call them, exporters or assorted specifications, it is left to those people who are employed in your ministry and who will, however, give and who should make a proposal through the sublaw of how it will look and how it will be arranged. The amendment only noted that, in addition to the brand for the transport of wooden varieties, there must be accompanying documentation. This amendment aims, I would say, to establish continuity with, as you have stated in your explanation, a special law governing the transport of goods. If we were to follow your approach, where it is said that some action in this law that we have proposed is already covered by the amendment by another law, then we could halve this law altogether.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39899	A minute and 20 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used. The 63rd Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic, who wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the esteemed chairman, honourable ministers, the New Serbia Parliament Club has practically submitted several amendments in this debate on details in order to fix this law. First of all, for the reasons that any latent fire threat, which can lead to inconceivable consequences and major forest fires, we all know that it is extremely difficult to fires like this and put out, and the very great damage to forest goods is all real, we thought that the distance is concrete in Article 63 of the Cemran, cretan and similar open fire objects should be increased to a safer distance with the proposed amendment. The distance from 200 meters proposed by this law is certainly necessary to get as far away as possible and I don't see any reason, Mr. Minister, why you didn't accept this amendment, as well as the amendments to Articles 49 and 47, where it is practically a message to include and what is relevant to waste, and what is referred to as any open flame that can bring about, means dealing with such actions that can cause such damage. I cannot accept why you did not respect this amendment because it really is the purpose of this amendment to ensure the practical forest good and forest management. Of course, there is much contradictory, as I have already introduced and submitted the amendment to Article 42. The forest law, where everything clears up in Articles 43 and 44, but there's no reason not to stand here. Those users, small users, who have big problems, as we have said in principle, do not have opportunities because they are nursing households, which certainly cannot adequately send out certain things, and of course the Ministry's support exists, but the question is whether those people who are 70-80, who are owners, who are hard to live anyway, are most often ill, can resort to all of these wishes that you have and some of the prescribed measures that you are introducing. It's hard for someone who's extremely hard to live, who's extremely old, who's 70-80 years old, to be able to follow all of your regulations. I think I should have, if already in article 43 and 44. You're talking about, there was no reason not to put those words "with the support of the ministry" in article 42.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39901	A minute and 15 seconds have been used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted to the 70th Amendment by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39902	I'll also use the time of the authorized representative. A large number of amendments have been submitted to the Law on Forests, with the fact that the profession for the first time played a dominant role in defining many open issues under this law, and therefore the amendment that I have submitted. We are aware of the fact that on the Committee on Agriculture, which has just mentioned some of our colleagues, and in other committees there were no major problems in agreeing to the amendments related to expert solutions. The problem was presented, and now they are amendments that are intruding into legal-political solutions to certain responsibilities, obligations, and the financial functioning of this law, when it is implemented in everyday practice. Through the amendments submitted, our parliamentary group has advocated full accuracy and clearly established obligations and deadlines for the conduct of the Ministry and Government, future public enterprises formed, but also future owners and users of forest land units, in terms of the full public and insight into how to grow, maintain and transport heating and industrial wood, as well as forest products. The amendments to this basic law deserved a separate debate, in which, after 20 years, both the legal and quality framework and all technical and technological solutions for this so important resource for our country would be legally and qualityd. The adoption of this law is not a debate on the work of public enterprises which now manage these resources, but rather a debate on the adoption of a proper, comprehensive, responsible and professional law which will regulate this matter in the future. The debate and amendments must give a full definition of the strategy for further development of Serbia's forestry, with a clear and complete definition of the responsibilities and obligations of new users and forest managers. The amendment that we have submitted to this law, to this article, is trying to clearly separate both functions that the law will impose on future public undertakings, which is that public and business functions must be placed under state control and under the control of the profession. By this session, the amendments to this law remained polymic in this part of the so-called area. double jurisdiction, both by profession and by conduct of decisions. We hope that this debate will finally be able to define a few more open issues related to the adoption, but also the practical application of this law in the preservation and use of national resources such as forests.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39903	45 seconds of authorized representative time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 75 and 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there are 14 laws in the field of agriculture, seven, as the minister said in the debate in principle, systemically, and seven are confirming conventions. You will have the opportunity to see today that the SRS has worked seriously on these laws, that within our parliamentary group we have divided these laws to participate more constructively in the debate. I must say, a number of amendments have been accepted by the Ministry. We think it could have been more. We will try to convince you of this during today's debate, and certainly you will allow, hopefully, the position of the SRS when it comes to our agriculture, when it comes to the position of our agricultural producers, individual agricultural producers, people dealing with livestock, fruit growing, vegetables, to bring out all the problems in the area of agriculture. We think our agriculture needs more help. We'll certainly commend what we think is right, but we'll bring problems out of the field. First of all, it is our obligation as MPs, and we will make concrete proposals today during the debate in which our agricultural production can be improved. First of all, we mean subsidies specifically, because our farmer has been cheated so many times and simply has no confidence. We think that agriculture, as a branch in which we are achieving a surplus, can be much more, that this surplus can be five times larger, but that the government must first of all have understanding, through the Ministry of Agriculture, and that agriculture should be one of the momentum of our economic recovery.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39905	A 15-second parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 79th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 80th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted to the 82nd Amendment by the Committee on Agriculture. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Radoslav Milovanovic and National MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39906	Dear Vice-Presidents, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, with this amendment proposed by the Committee, 30% of the funds incurred from the compensation for the use of forests and forest land become the income of the budget of the unit of local self-government. For the first time, this amendment introduces local self-government in the process of worrying about raising new forests, as the most important part of the environmental protection system. I come from the area owned by the forest land of northern Kučac, Kučevo, where the territory covered by the state forests is 62,000 hectares, and private forests have 71,000 hectares, and the municipalities of Braničevsky Management District and part of the Borsko district are covered. I thank the representatives of the Ministry who have accepted this amendment, and I think, as a forest engineer, that the Forest Law is good and that it is important to arrange this area, very important, I repeat, for the protection of the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39907	One minute used by the MP's group. National MP Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39908	The Honorable Chairman, representatives of the ministry, Mr Minister and fellow MPs, I would only refer to the words of my colleague Radet, who in short only explained what it was about. Of course, I join the ministry and, of course, the Committee on Agriculture, who found understanding that this amendment proposed as its own and who found understanding for the municipalities of Majdanpek, what the Municipality of Priboj is and what the municipality of Kučevo is like. I would just like to clarify for our viewers, that this amendment explains that the funds are made from the forest and forest land benefit of 70% of the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and 30% of the revenues are the budgets of local self-government. Furthermore, in Article 85 of this proposal, the law determines who pays the fee, lays down the basis for the payment of the fee and the time limits for the payment of the fee. At the level of forest and forest land charges to be paid by the forest user, a rate of 3% will be applied on the basis of the total annual income generated by forest management. For forest owners, a rate of 5% will be applied and based on the market value of the wood cut, i.e. the value of the wood variety made. I come from the Majdanpek municipality, which extends to 932 square miles and per area is among the most spacious in Serbia, except Belgrade. The Municipality of Majdanpek has 63,150 hectares of forest, which is about 68% of the total area of the municipality. Serbia's noise is normally about 29%. Majdanpek belongs to the municipalities of the richest forests with 2.66 hectares per capita. The structure of the forest surfaces is extremely favourable. There are high forests and they cover over 70% of the total area. The total wooden volume on the territory of the Municipality of Majdanpek is 10,620,895 meters of cubic trees. The annual increase in national forests is 640,153 metres cubic. The state-owned forest is 75.8%, and the rest is privately owned and owned by the Faculty of Forests. Otherwise, about 76 cubic metres of wood is cut annually. The National Forests are managed by the forest owner "North House" in one part, and by the forest owner "Timotic Forests". Both of these holdings are part of the "Serbishum" Public Enterprise. Our largest Đerdap National Park owns about 17,000 hectares of national forests located on the territory of the Majdanpek municipality. More than 90% of the national forest in the municipality's territory from the aspect of production function belongs to the category of technical wood. It's a beech, oak, the rest of the leafies, and there's some loggers. This is undoubtedly an excellent potential, or raw materials base, which was widely used without compensation for local environments. The adoption of this amendment removes the current lack of existing law. I am saying this to point out the importance this adopted amendment will have for the revenue side of the municipality budget from which I come, and for the budgets of all those municipalities similar to it. Once again, I would like to thank my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, otherwise the members of the Committee on Agriculture, who had the understanding and put this amendment amongst themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39909	Used four minutes and 30 seconds of MP time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the 84th Amendment have been tabled by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the title above Article 88 and Article 14 of the amendment were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 91st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 99 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 99. Proposal for a forest law. Otherwise, the member refers to the lease of forest land in the state property. The amendment is – forest land in state property cannot be leased to a foreign citizen, nor to a foreign legal person. As for the applicant's response, it is said in the explanation that he does not see the reasons that point to the necessity of adopting the proposed amendment. The submission of this amendment may have been aimed at warning the meaning of everything that has been happening lately in Serbia, when we know that many natural resources owned by Serbia are being given and sold out. It is known that many military polygons are built on forest land. In some cases, it is the kidnapped monastery forest and monastery land after World War II, or 1945, which was returned to the 2006 Restitution Act to the SPC. I now cite an example of the Beans meadows. Many have heard of this military polygon, which otherwise belongs to the Despotovac municipality. There have been many articles in the press in the last few years about NATO's interest in this military polygon because of its strategic position. So, given that certain military polygons have become very interesting to NATO's pacts in the strategic approach to Russia, I believe that even on such a small case, it is necessary to adopt this amendment as a confirmation that the Serbian government has genuine and friendly relations with the Russian Federation. Otherwise, the rejection of the amendments will mean that in the near future forest land is planned for foreigners, or NATO. Could it happen that the forest land that is in state property, which, as I mentioned earlier, is returned to the SPC by the Law on Restitution, that such land be leased to a citizen, or to a foreign legal person? Let us not forget another fact that the forests, especially the monastery forests, were once, and today, the keepers of the springs of healthy drinking water, very important natural wealth, unfortunately not used enough. It will certainly be the wish of many, those who do not think well of Serbia, who are foreign citizens, the apartment of legal persons, to use this natural wealth without eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39911	A minute and 42 seconds have been used by an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Serbia Parliament Club has submitted several amendments when it comes to criminal policy. Of course, this directly refers to economic crimes, Article 111, and we felt that Article 111 needed to tighten policy, namely that the words "three thousand to three million" were changed in the words "four hundred thousand to four million dinars". The interpretation of this amendment is that criminal measures for legal persons must be increased in order to permanently destimulate them to commit those commercial offences. Of course, in my explanation, I have seen that you are calling for certain scales that apply to commercial crimes, but given the specificity that concerns the forests, criminal policy should be tightened. Namely, these economic offences relating to some 26 points, as can practically be sanctioned by all those causing a type of economic crime, are not clearly distinguished from some of the irrevocable damages that can be caused, such as in point 4, by cutting trees, rare and protected types of trees. So there's an irrevocable possibility that certain damage can be done. On this occasion, I would also like to point out, Mr. Minister, that the competent ministries and, of course, the Ministry of Trade, and yours, should pay further attention to the catastrophic situation in the wood industry. In the King, you all know that the "Jasen" factory, which has been known around the world, of course, in our country, which has had extremely large exports, has completely failed, that some privatisation that has been done in principle is badly done, but this time I would point out the catastrophic situation of individual people dealing with the wood industry. At this point, of some ten-fifteen strudels who have been extremely invested in the previous years. It's a big investment. Of some ten-fifteen in the King right now, a single company may be at a positive zero, and when you pass, you will see that they are practically all closed, and that many people have lost their jobs and are extremely difficult to do business. This time, of course, I call on you and the government to do something to make individual producers who have been completely choked, because the trend of wood in the world and Europe has fallen, it has to be recognised, in order for these people who have both large loans and mortgage loans to overcome their problems and survive, and thus those people who are employed there, some sawmills and scrapers to employ 45 people, these people have lost their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39913	A minute and 50 seconds used by the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted to Article 111 of the amendment by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39914	In Article 112, as we have said, New Serbia's parliamentary club is representing the issue of increasing criminal policies for this type of area and for this type of sanctions. In Article 112, the words "a hundred thousand million dinars" change with the words "two hundred thousand to two million dinars". In Article 111, I explained why all this is to be tolerated. This type of problem involves and requires stronger criminal policy. It's about such material social well-being, any violations, any disrespect for the law in this area needs to be raised, or their limitations. The explanation is similar. I'll remind you, gentlemen of the government, that over the past year, court fees have been raised by 50%. No one at the time, and we pointed out from this pay phone, it didn't occur to me that he was only following the inflationary part of the criminal policy, but suddenly he made one big cut under the pretext of 50%. I've repeatedly pointed out from this pay phone that we're going to swear on a small number of cases, in a more up-to-date judiciary, but people just don't want to be tried anymore when they have to pay a fee at the beginning of 50 grand, and 50 grand for a decision, so a hundred thousand for a complaint. If in such a state, an archaic is when we talk about court fees, and here we call for something that is limited, so I'm asking you if anyone who doesn't respect everything I just said in those 26 points is going to stay within the scope of something that's long gone. Mr. Minister, I can't accept that through a stricter criminal policy you didn't want to protect the material goods of the forest.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39915	50 seconds of the authorized representative's time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we continue the search in the particulars of the amendments to the proposal for a forest law, I would like to inform you that this part of our gallery session is being followed by the participants of the Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence. I invite you to welcome our guests together, and these are: Adrian Boka, Aleksandar Cvetković, Aleksandra Požgaj, Aleksandar Zorić, Biljana Lazović, Bojana Janković, Damir Hamzić, Danko Aleksić, Djordje Rasevic, Dragoslava Marković, Dubravka Stijović, Dubravka Grčić, Dušanka Zlokolica, Malojković, Filip Milošević, Goran Arsić, Goran Arsić, Goran Tepšić, Ivan Petronijevic, Katarina Golubović-Kovač, Marjan Cvetković, Marko Stevanović, Maša Miljević, Mile Bijelić, Milorad Matić, Milorad Stamenković, Miodrag Šeger, Neda Bogović, Srdjan Božinović, Srdjan Sandić, Srdjan Vezmar, Teodor Obrenović, Tina Kampa Kamče, Tina Kamčević, Tina Kambar, Tina Kamor Kambar, Tović, Tović, Vlaštić, Vlačić, Vlad. Our young guests come to us from Vrsac, Kragujevac, Šapca, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Loznica, Nis, Topola and Old Paz. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're continuing our work. [[Applause]] On Article 112, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 112 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, representatives of the applicant accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 113 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 113. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39916	Of course, we have already explained everything concerning commercial offences and violations of legal persons, and in Article 113, the penalty limit should also be increased for natural persons in criminal policy. So in Article 113, the 1st position "from 10,000 to 50,000 dinars" changes in the words "from 20,000 to 100,000 dinars". Penalties for natural persons must be increased in order to permanently destimulate them to commit the offences provided for in this law. It would thus increase responsibility and security in committing the offence.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39917	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the amendment to Article 113. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to article 119. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39918	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the word "two years" is changed in the words "one year". Reason: it is necessary to reduce the time limit by one year because otherwise it is impossible to ensure the application of this law. Mr. Minister, and in the debate in principle and today practically finishing this part of the debate in particular, I pointed to some illogicality when this forest law, which is today on the agenda, is ahead of us. This amendment, I think, should have been accepted, especially for the reason that the deadline reduction would have provided for a better application of this law if voted in the National Assembly. Today, at the end of this debate in particular, I once again point to the fact that the forest law needed first, and only then the hunting law. It's likely that all of this I pointed to is a causal link, and certainly certain experts that New Serbia has did not say for no reason that the reverse order was first to go, so the law on forests, then the law on hunting.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39919	Anyone else want a word? The 120th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the part of "The List of Forests and Forest Lands of Forest Areas", which is an integral part of the bill's proposal, in sections 1, 4, 7, 9, 10, 16, 17 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the part of "The List of Forests and Forest Lands of Forest Areas", which is an integral part of the Bill's proposal, the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word, on the basis of Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. In that case, I conclude a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People's MPs, in accordance with Article 27 and Article 85, I am notifying that we will conclude our morning work for today, that we will continue our work in the afternoon work at 15.00 hours, and that at 2.30 p.m., a session of the Committee on Agriculture will be held. By referring again to Article 27, I would like to inform you that the session is scheduled because of the need for an agreement on the Committee on Agriculture on the submission of amendments to the draft Water Law, which follows us to search the details in the afternoon. What I still want to say is that this session will be held by the interpartial co-operation of all parliamentary groups and I sincerely thank the representatives of the opposition parliamentary groups, because the session would not be possible, that is, during today's session would not be possible in accordance with Article 27. So we continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 9th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE VODOMA (specificities) You have received amendments that were submitted to the bill by the MPs: joint MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Pošurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čolić; then, MP Milorad Krstin, Radiša Ilic, Sinisa Stamenković, Dobrislav Prelic, Petar Jojić, Sreto Perić, Sreto Perić, Milan and Žiljanjević. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, and pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, is about the proposal for a water law, in Article 5, paragraph 1, after the word "own" is deleted and the words "Republic of Serbia" are added. What was I gonna say about that? He says this – Public water well-being, Article 5: Waters are good of general interest and state property. When it is said "in state property", I see no reason why you did not accept my amendment if Article 5 reads like this – Waters are of general interest to the Republic of Serbia. I think it is more logical, and in my own explanation I wrote it well – given that in several members of this law, the Republic of Serbia is listed in the definitions relating to state property, we believe that the amendment is in line with the basic principles of this law. It's the only real explanation for this amendment of mine. I think it makes sense that the waters are better than the general interest of the Republic of Serbia, not state property. Just to take a look at the individual members of this water law, you'll see that the "Republic of Serbia" is not put on "state property" everywhere. Therefore, I really see no reason not to accept it – it would mean nothing to you, and this law would mean a lot. It would be much clearer to say "the property of the Republic of Serbia" than "in state property".
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39922	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Radisa Ilic has submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law on waters where a new position 2 is added. The view reads: "The competent authority is obliged to implement the removal of all irrevocable facilities from waterland that are not in the function of water supplying water streams, the maintenance of the waterbeds, the implementation of water protection measures and other activities concerning water and water land". In order for this law to be successfully applied, it is necessary to go to the overall recording and editing of water land and facilities on it for the purpose of water land. The facts suggest that a large percentage of water land is usurped by the construction of illegal objects of different purposes, by wild exploitation of gravel etc. As for this Article 10, it refers to water land and a game of cases or fate, I would say, yesterday we could hear directly the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, who has been visiting flooded areas throughout Serbia – that all responsible persons who have contributed by their inaction to the flood will be punished for failure to work. That's exactly where I wanted to fix this bill. What could have been the cause of these floods, except for the heavy rainfall? Exactly what should be determined if this amendment is accepted. First of all, it is necessary to record all wild excavations of gravel, then built buildings, garages, restaurants, broken dikes, or walls that are used to protect against floods because of private needs, private roads, etc., that I do not now list.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39924	45 seconds of authorized representative time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39925	We have submitted to Article 24 of this Law an amendment that should define many issues related to both the Republic and the Autonomous Region, at the end of the Belgrade city, or local self-government authorities in other municipalities. We are aware of the fact that one of the basic laws of agriculture and our overall being as a society in general is exactly the law on water. That is why we, as a parliamentary group, and as a Committee on Agriculture, gave him an extremely large and responsible attention and gave him a large number of amendments. The debate on the Committee on Agriculture has shown all the strength of the opposing views and opinions on several draft solutions, with a closer definition that the Committee for this plenary session may propose partially agreed amendments. The determination of the level of the disposal fee as an annual cost calculation for the management and maintenance of the disposal system in a specific melioration area, as well as the obligations of land users and facilities used for the purposes of the defence of the country and public security are definitely determined according to the area used by the entities. The titlers of property and depositors shall also be determined by other laws, not only by law on water. This removed one of the above-mentioned dilemmas, which in preparation, in both the debate in principle and the debate in particular, made it a big problem for us to come up with final and real solutions that would meet all the needs of our society and the state in general. Amendments to which the competent authority is obliged to implement the removal of water-land-free facilities, which are not in the water-flow arrangement function, as well as in the water-flow maintenance function or the implementation of water- and water-land protection measures, require another consideration of all the technical and technological relevant solutions that should finally contribute to the correct and sustainable solutions. The definition of melioration areas is the definition of the general use of water not exposed to previous amendments, which are in line with the identification and appropriate quality of the water referred to in Article 83. It's a bill of law. We believe that in a technical sense they should be supported. They can only contribute much better solutions than this bill. Amendments proposing the regulation of the various obligations of users of water under this law have not been fully defined and we hope that this debate in particular and will submit amendments, regardless of what political group they are referring to, will make a great contribution to them being defined. We believe that the obligation to clean up wastewater needs to be closer and better defined. We believe that the obligation to obtain water conditions for industrial and other facilities, and in particular the conditions for handling and bringing water from surface and underground springs, as well as the setting of water conditions for industrial and other facilities, which release waste water directly into surface and underground waters and sewers, must be much more stringent, i.e. to limit much more strictly. The level of limit values of all water emissions for which the quality of the recapitals would be compromised must be conditioned. It seems to me that a major shift has been made both in the law and in the Committee's efforts to raise this water slightly through certain amendments. We believe it is necessary to accept the amendment to Article 98 and Article 118. The bill, where it is prescribed that water conditions be issued by the Ministry, in order to raise the upper limit of all relevant parameters relevant to the water regime to the highest level and even to the criminal responsibility of contaminants of these waters. The amendments to the Water Law and the proposals for other laws in this set of laws are only professional and technological solutions that can help make these sets of laws right. They will be supported by our parliamentary group in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39926	Two minutes and 20 seconds of the authorized representative's time have been used. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment has been accepted by the Ministry, but I feel the need to say a few words. And in my opening statement, I said that the Ministry had accepted a few amendments, although we thought there was an opportunity to accept even more, but what is very important and for the public to say why this amendment was accepted. In Article 25 paragraph 1 point 6), the words "reduction or" are proposed to be deleted. I will also read Article 6: The polluter pays principle; anyone who causes water pollution by his activities is obliged to bear the costs of the measures to reduce or eliminate pollution. So there's no dilemma, there can be no reduction, there can be a removal of pollution. I think it's all right. What I still want to say when it comes to water law, we are all witnessing that these days there are a lot of problems in Šumadia, Kralje and Leskovec. There are also problems in Vojvodina, especially when it comes to groundwater. However, when it comes to rashes, it is a better situation than in Serbia, although in many of the Danube municipalities, there are problems, but something is a better situation. It should certainly be said that the Duke's water, since the Law on the Transfer of Jurisdiction was passed to the AP Vojvodina and everything we warned about then, has come to light very quickly and evidence to our claims that we were right. Namely, our farmers, with taxes that they receive regularly for the country, have suddenly received for the first time from the Duke's water treatment solutions. Believe me, I've had a chance to look at those solutions. They're in the same minority amount as the total tax on the ground. It's just amazing. What is still to be said, in a conversation with our people, and I was an eyewitness, we called one agricultural landowner who has seven acres of land, the tax on that country was at 9,000 dinars, and in two years, 8,700 dinars arrived. That's what's very dangerous. That's what we warned that we would have parallel to two governments. There is one more thing that should certainly be said, that the AP Vojvodina, or President of the Executive Council Bojan Pajtic, was preparing for some things in time. First of all, I am referring to the Development Bank, which was opened before the adoption of the Statute of Vojvodina and before the transfer of powers to the AP Vojvodina. All the funds that were received in the case of agriculture through the AP Vojvodina Development Fund have been applied normally to the fund. All users received a new contract afterwards where they commit to returning it to Metals Bank. This absolutely means that if they have been late for days, they will be subject to the interest that banks are predicting, and you know very well that these are amounts at a tremendously large level, and above all a huge number of these loans have been raised to improve livestock farming. You all know the price of milk and everything. People are simply in terrible trouble. We think that the Ministry of Agriculture can react there, objectively look at the situation, get out on the ground, get out where these people spent those funds, which are in a really difficult situation, and even if a certain period of time those loans freeze, like you did when they were short-term loans for one year, that people get on their feet. None of the farmers are sure to run away from their obligation, but to be helped in this way because we think they deserve it, and that's the only way to survive now, because many of them have been fired, primarily in agricultural combinations, and thus they have tried to continue to live normally and to provide existence for their family. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39928	Two minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 67. The proposal for a law on water, with a proposal to add a point of '7' of irrigation in Article 67(1) after point 6). The use of water for irrigation is a very widespread and widespread activity that is applied in agricultural production. It's water used without prior treatment. The adoption of amendments would define more fully and comprehensively the concept of general water use. If we look at Article 67, which is water whose use is possible without prior treatment, then we do not understand why you refused this amendment to the SRS. I'm saying this in the light of the explanation you wrote for the rejection of the amendment. I'll quote one part: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is a provision of Article 67. The bill stipulates that the general use of water implies the use of water without prior treatment, i.e. without the use of special devices (pumps, weights and other) or the construction of water facilities, which is not the case for irrigation." Now I ask you, reading one item at a time of Article 67, where it is said under point 1) of drinking water, under 2) feeding livestock in the household, 3) sanitary-hygiene needs, 4) recreation, including bathing etc., does the use of these waters not mean, as you say here – pumps, weights, construction of water facilities etc? It is a bit strange that water at these points can be used without what the proposer stated in the explanation. We know that there is a particular chapter in article 82 of this law that deals with irrigation, but we think that here and irrigation was a place for general water use. Because it turns out that water is better treated for irrigation than water intended for drinking, as described in point 1) or for feeding livestock in the household or for sanitary and hygiene needs, etc. We absolutely don't understand and make this argument clear. We believe the amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39930	A 50-second mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 69th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 94th Amendment were submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39931	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 94, which refers to the protection of water from pollution, and on paragraph 2 "prevention, interruption and reduction" is replaced by the words "prevention and interruption". Reason: It is absolutely unacceptable that someone polluting water commits to reduce pollution. The only possible and only acceptable solution is to remove pollution, which is in the interest of protecting water from pollution. The ministry did not accept this amendment by saying that pollution is a continuous process and that it should be done gradually by building a water treatment plant. I will refer to a practical example, and before that, I would say the term "minimum sustainable flow", which represents a flow that, downstream, must be provided in the waterway for the survival and development of downstream biocenosis and to satisfy the downstream users. This is in Article 81, and it is specified, that it is an obligation for anyone to use the water supply and that it must enable it. In Article 81(2), it is prescribed that this is closer to the secretary's office and defines how it is done. It's beautifully written if it's fully applied. I'll give you a practical example. In Ariel there is a large water supply system "Rzav", which has no accumulation, because it is directly attached, or drains water from the water stream. It's been working for 20 years. Now he has the intention of entering the building of the battery. When it's over, you don't know, probably years, but there'll be problems by then. What's the problem? As long as there's water, everything's fine. However, when a dry period occurs, it becomes a problem. People, 300,000 citizens do not have water to drink, and a minimum flow should be provided downstream, or biological minimum. What's going on? Then there's the conflict, the Aryans want to protect Rzav, the citizens downriver want to drink water and resort to the minister's order to reduce some prescribed biological minimum.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39932	30 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to Article 97 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39933	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to thank the Ministry of Agriculture for, unfortunately, accepting certain amendments, since I believe there have been a lot of good amendments here that need to be improved by a certain law. I would, however, ask the minister to follow us, because yet these laws, how much agricultural law today is, and how interesting the laws are to be seen by the visits and by the MPs themselves in the National Assembly. The belt you predicted for this member to be 20 meters, I can't figure out that the one who handled this law made such a cardinal mistake, that he predicted so many meters from what was present so far, that next to the canal there would be this five-metre protection belt. What is this belt used for? It is used, firstly, for the safety of the situation; secondly, because of the system where it is sometimes necessary to clean these channels. And, as my colleague Radisha said, when the president visited flooded areas yesterday, he was appalled when he saw that certain channels and certain words had not been cleaned for 40-50 years. It's one of the big problems that we remember to clean up, then we dig when the flood comes. When the flood is over, when the warm days are warm, when the water retreats, then we all forget and consider – go on caring for each other. I think this is one of the most important issues, one of the most important laws, and it's the water law. You know well how much over the year these unworked systems take away money from agriculture, or how much floods of the area and land that are sown. We know that in this year, in which two or three times certain rivers, streams and streams have been poured out and how much damage there is in agriculture, you can't do a certain amount of money, which you want to help farmers and people in the flooded area, to help them repair the damage. It's impossible and quantitative money, and it's impossible for that damage to be compensated in the amount of water that caused that damage. So I think that this amendment that you have accepted is an amendment that reduces that protective belt from 20 to five meters, or increases the size of arable surfaces, or what we are and how we are able to do it, maybe reducing the space that would also grow into flares, weeds and all that, so the maltenes could not be approached by these canals, streams and sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39934	A minute and 40 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The 98th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group submitted to the title above the 107th and 107th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 133. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 133, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 134th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 140th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 142 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 145th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture tabled an amendment to Article 146. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Gjorge Milicevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39935	Dear Mrs Comic, Honored Ministers, Honored Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to express my satisfaction with the adoption of the amendment of the Committee of Resolution to Article 146. I want to believe that this is the result of a quality debate in the principle that we have led here within the Republic of Parliament. I also want to say once again, as regards the Water Act itself, we have in principle highlighted the positive characteristics and characterised it as a comprehensive and significant shift in the alignment of this area with EU directives and regulations. We note once again that the previous Water Act was passed almost 20 years ago, in particular in 1991, and was mostly changed to comply with the laws relating to the jurisdiction of the province. I think that the draft law on water and in the pre-debate period in principle and before the law itself entered the assembly procedure we should have paid much more attention to, bearing in mind what was happening in the area of water industry in the past few years, and it seems to me that there has been a lot of abuse of natural resources and great wealth for private persons at the expense of state revenues. I would like once again to express my satisfaction with the adoption of the Committee's amendment to Article 146 and to say a few more justifiable reasons why this amendment was adopted. In principle, we all advocate decentralisation, a balanced development of all areas and municipalities in Serbia, but some members of this law did not seem to be in this spirit just before this amendment was adopted. This is why we tried to place some amendments through the Committee on Agriculture and during the debate in principle in order to implement a policy of equal development and decentralisation. There were three amendments to be discussed on the Committee on Agriculture. The first amendment was adopted on Article 146. I would like to say whether or not it is deliberate or accidental, this article does not specify which public enterprise manages and maintains regional and multi-purpose hydrosystems. I would like to remind you that regional multi-purpose hydrosystems, I have already spoken in the debate in principle, complex systems that serve to provide water needs in the territory of two or more units of local self-government and a proposal from the Committee, fully justified, that the management and maintenance of regional multi-purpose hydrosystems is carried out by a public enterprise founded by local self-government units, for which needs are provided in the area of water. Our remarks, I would like to conclude with that, also referred to Article 224. We tried through the Committee to support the amendment to this member. The reason for this was that the amendment proposed was not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Such an explanation, it seems to me, if that is so, does not stand, because no one is intruding in the management of state assets of natural resources, because they are of general interest in state property. The attitude that we have highlighted very clearly and very precisely during the debate in principle is that it is not necessary to punish legal persons, i.e. investors who have built or built water facilities themselves to sign, in a word, capitulation and transfer facilities to a republican or regional public enterprise. Once again, I would like to express my satisfaction that the resolution ministry has accepted the Committee's amendment to Article 146. I want to believe that during this debate on details, they will also consider adopting amendments to Articles 216 and 224.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39936	Four minutes and 20 seconds used by the MP's group. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 150. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 151 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 151 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and gentlemen of the Ministry, we come to chapter nine - Water Management Finance. In article 151, it says – funds for the financing of transactions under Article 150 of this law are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina budget, water fees, concession fees, other sources. In this article 151 after point 4), I added a new point that reads: "5) donations". I see no reason not to accept this, if we just turn around, and this is how it stands in my explanation – when it comes to funding jobs in many areas that are regulated by law, the government has often as one of the means of providing funds, as well as funds from donations. The adoption of the amendment would be in accordance with Article 188. It's a bill of law. Here, if I look at Article 188 now, he says: Other sources of funding for transactions under Article 150 of this Law are: own funds of legal and physical persons, means of prevention that are derived from premiums and insurance, dedicated loans, public loans, donations and so forth. So, just on the basis of this Article 187 I'm connecting and I want this Article to be 151 after point 4) of the existing point 5 to be transferred to point 6), and the new point 5 to be another source of funding, and these are donations. I don't see why they wouldn't be donations, if we already have that in Article 188. I will once again read this article in 188, says – other sources of funding for the 150th law. On the basis of Article 150, on the next 151, I am merely asking that the word "donation" be added after point 4) of point 1 be added in point 1 and that the existing point 5) be point 6. I really don't see any reason not to accept it. I don't see why, this isn't the Law on the financing of political parties, which is rigorous, for some it doesn't seem, so it has to be strictly taken care of. This is something that will always be good for agriculture, even one called donations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39938	A minute and 25 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39939	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, I support the amendment to Article 151 that Mr. Krstin has submitted and I see no reason why, although under this line, five other sources could not be tampered with and – donations. One more thing, I would like to say a few words to the deputy head of the parliamentary group, using this time that the party has. Mr. Minister, I specifically asked you one question, and in relation to article 150, which says: that the affairs of general interest financed under this law are: under one, the regulation of the waterflows, etc. And I'm interested in that, that water stream. I asked you specifically for two villages, now one of them, unfortunately, is particularly injured, which is the village of the Eyebrow in the royal municipality, from the flood. My question was: who will answer for the disorder of the flow of West Morava, why do they lose their fatherland or grandfather for years, how do we like to say it? So, it's not just happening in the Chapanese municipality, maybe it's even more drastic in the Sabbath community, on the Sava River, where hundreds and hundreds of acres a year, here, my colleague from Capca gives me the right, loses because the water streams of rivers aren't arranged. If I understand your answer properly, which you have given me as well as ever, the second is whether or not I agree with that answer, but it's pretty much that local self-government is in charge of this thing. I don't see from this law how local self-government, if they're coming to realize, let's say, the water supply system writes -- the budget of the Republic of Serbia, who's in charge, how can local self-government be in charge of that? I repeat, in the village of Katrga, in the municipality where I come from, from the city of Cačka, it's been going on for years and people are desperate. With that in mind, I can say that this law is like one of the few, which, although very large, is written in a very clear way. You don't have to be something special professional to understand. The question arises when it comes to practice – what will now be taken away by a farmer from Kamarketa, who, for example, last year from a total of three acres and 80 acres of the most fertile sea land by West Morava? What does he have from this law now? So, to you, Mr. Minister, I do not dispute the intention at all, if anything else is seen by the number of your associates present here, to respect both the Assembly and we respect the importance of this law and important topics. What exactly now is one farmer, I go as a MP there and I say, well whether I vote or not, it's passed this law, it's extraordinary, I've already said, it's all written, and what's he going to say to me, what am I supposed to do with that law? That's how it's been going for years, and at the same time, they've got all kinds of imposings, taxes and taxes on deforestation and irrigation. These sums may not be that big, but for those who lose a third of their grandfather's grandfather, every penny, Mr. Minister, is precious to him. One more thing, since I won't answer again, and I don't think this is the law on which we need to fight and burn, which concerns Article 224, where within six months, you and you are obliged to take over water facilities and jurisdiction, so let's say, "Vojvodna's Water" takes water facilities from the territory of Vojvodina. So jurisdiction, rights, obligations, everything. "Belgrade water", from Belgrade's territory, and "Serbia" what's left. Then the name needs to be changed, Mr. Minister, to that firm, the rest of Serbia, what's left. While fellow Stamenkovic, it seems to me that he was saying something about Article 224, if I understood him correctly, I didn't pay that much attention, and I'm not an agricultural expert either. Dear citizens of Serbia, here's what I'm talking about. The state of Serbia exists within the borders – they have rivers, lakes, water facilities, and in order to explain it more professionally, they are now taking over the competences of public enterprises. What is on the territory of Vojvodina is taking over the "Vojvodina Water", what is located in the territory of the city of Belgrade, "Belgrade Water", and what remains of "Serbia". Then the name is illogical, what's left – the rest of Serbia or the Forest or Western Serbia. I really thought, until I looked a little better at this 224th article, that the "Serbian" was in charge of both "Belgrade of Waters" and "Vojvod's Waters" and that the Ministry of State is government at all. Now we have approximately divided the water – "Vojvod's Water", I don't mind, the law is passed, whether I have or don't have, respect for autonomy, respect for everything, "Belgrade Water" and now "Serbia", which is really a little nonses. The "Serbian Water" is called what remains of water, western Serbia, eastern Serbia, Shumadija, KIM. We pride ourselves on that name, of course, I have nothing against "Serbia", but that name suggests that the "Serbians" are in charge of the whole territory which is not, if I understand the law correctly, if I did not, you explain it to me, but more to the citizens of Serbia than to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39940	Five minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39941	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I really can't, and I've been trying to understand why you rejected this amendment, Mr. Krstin. It's a section of the law on funding water management. I don't know what the problem is, that resources are being supplied through donations. Is that something that's unacceptable for the Ministry? Or maybe donations aren't acceptable at all? Or do we need no more donations? Especially, what donations are mentioned, as Mr. Krstin said, in article 188. How is that mentioned in one article and not mentioned in another? On the other hand, I'm going to use the time of the parliamentary group, and it seems to me that a lot of authority has passed one very important member of this law. I think this member is important for the Serbian public to be familiar with some facts. It's about Article 117. It's about water conditions. It is said – objects and works of the planning document for which water conditions are issued. Point 4) of the planning documents for which water conditions are issued relate to hydropower plant, thermopower plant and nuclear facilities. Let's see what nuclear facilities are. The story would not have been very interesting until two or three days ago, or on 22 April, if it hadn't been for MPs who had received one invitation to a meeting organised by the NGO "Beles" and with a proposal for certain issues to be initiated by MPs. As far as I can see, MPs of the ruling majority are not interested in this, and that's good, there's a relationship. It is said this, point 5) is one of these issues that should be initiated in the talks – the verification that the Water Act is in accordance with EU directives. Is the EU directive to build nuclear facilities? Now what does that have to do with this subject again? It is said this: "point 6 - initiating audits, strategies, energy and decentralisation in the field of energy". Did we come in, Mr. Minister, into the energy audit? Does the public of Serbia know anything about it? Are we going to build nuclear power plants? We have some obligations that we've brought before, by 2015, or are we at a small door through one law, what is the Water Act, introducing the concept of nuclear power plants? I think so. Serbia's public needs to know this. Here, this is how it appears, and then, in the context of a story that is served to the MPs, there is a public debate. What about renewable energy sources? What does the environment minister think of this? About nuclear facilities? What are nuclear facilities? Who among you, gentlemen of the Ministry of Agriculture, can explain to the MPs what this is a nuclear facility for which a water permit is issued? Here, that's an interesting question. In the next article, 118 says: that water license can also be issued by local self-government, and we know what local self-government is, the city of Belgrade can also issue an Autonomous Region. So, the Environmental Protection Act doesn't apply to you or you haven't read it, or does it not apply to you moratorium by 2015? Or maybe you made a deal with some financiers about building nuclear power plants? You will load another misery upon this people's throat. So, explain: What will a nuclear facility do in the Water Law and what does that mean? What's that, what kind of nuclear facility is that? I expect answers from you, let's see what's in the law. Is this kind of a crawling policy, a small door being introduced to some concepts and it says - it is in line with EU directives? What about our laws? So, we're going to break our laws, they don't exist, there's no obligation under the old laws, past any decisions, past any consent and public debate we're introducing the term "nuclear facilities" and here in Serbia's nuclear power plant. That's what you came up with in this law, no discussion, no consultation. You will re-enter new borrowings, introduce a miracle into the country of Serbia, and someone will invest, get us a nuclear power plant in Serbia, and we will, on behalf of the loan, give electricity. That's your plan, and that's the policy run by this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39942	Five minutes have been used by the MP's group. National MP Radisa Ilic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would also like to refer to the discussion of my colleagues from the DSS, as regards this Article 116 and the mention of nuclear facilities. At the time of the adoption of the Law on protection against ionic radiation, last year I talked a lot about the problem that occurred through Article 48 of that law called "nuclear object", and then we got a shura of explanations from the Ministry of Science's representative that this was not about nuclear power plants, that it was about future warehouses for the disposal of radioactive waste, but they weren't so convincing to us and now we have the opportunity to see also in this water law the mention of a nuclear object again. It also ran out of response to the SRS claim that the then environmental adviser in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Aleksandar Peric, publicly announced information that the Serbian government is looking for 16 secret locations where nuclear waste storage facilities would be built. Now again, one fact that once again, the term "nuclear facility" is passed into one law. The public in Serbia should imagine whether there is something behind this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39944	A minute and 45 seconds have been used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic to Article 152. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the Honored Chairman, the SNS amendment refers to Article 152. The proposal, also in attitude 1, which refers to the words "on the territory of the Republic of Serbia other than the territory of the autonomous province", therefore, these words are deleted and attitude 2 is also deleted. The adoption of the proposed amendment, possibly by SNS MPs, ensures that transactions of general interest in Article 150, item 1, point 2, 5 and 6 are financed in the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, of course, by a single plan and the equal interest of all citizens, which should in fact be logical, and unfortunately nothing is logical in this country. When considering this amendment, it must be borne in mind that it is specific about the following matters. I believe that you know all this well, but by passing some other laws, of course, all of this comes to some division, which is, when it comes to water supply and water protection operations, water treatment and water use, construction, maintenance and management of regional and multi-purpose hydrosystems and other matters of general interest. The division of this business and their financing would, among other things, mean that, for example, The AP Vojvodina is responsible for financing the construction of the embankment and protection from the floods of the two coasts for the first 30km, say the Sava River, and for the rest of the coast to the left would be the AP Vojvodina, and for the right coast Serbia or Serbia, or, as they would already call Serbia outside the province. It remains practical for us to guess whether any, as we call it, territorial unit would build as many embankments as there is money, so as long as whoever gets there or maybe competed at the height of the embankment, that the flood would go practically to the other side, of course to the neighbor. When it comes to the Danube River, the situation is similar, but it's actually a little worse. It has long been known that neighbouring countries have established common funds and organisations for regulating border rivers and common protection against floods, so it turns out that in fact our country Serbia and its province behave as two neighbouring countries, not to say hostile states, but each of which, of course, regulates its coast independently to flood the other. I think we'd skip that part at that time, too, I brought it up on the Committee on Agriculture to the Assistant Ministers, after which the Minister himself, when the flood comes, of course, both Zaječar and Negotina, as well as the New Vienna, which I mentioned in the responsibility of the province, local self-government, however you wish, I think they'd practically avoid such jobs, or events for the good part. The last item remains business of general interest, and we are left to wonder what kind of jobs are of general interest to citizens of RS who are different to citizens in the province compared to citizens outside the province when everyone is well-known that water actually does not know about borders. It is quite obvious that the objective of this division is not to effectively protect citizens, but to ensure that political groups and individuals have control over the work of public funds and their spending is exclusively in their own interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39946	A minute and 40 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 153. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 169 of the amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 171 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 171. The proposal for a law on water, as it is said - in Article 171(1), point 1), after the words - according to the area in hectares, the point is placed and the rest of the text is deleted. It is logical to pay for irrigation per area, i.e. per hectare, and everything else would be inappropriate to pay on the basis of a class of land, agricultural culture and others. The adoption of the amendment would be in accordance with Article 180. It's a bill of law. The aim of this amendment is to protect the land from floods, by making the excess water more efficient by meliorating the land. Now we can get into a situation where compensation for, say, neighboring parcels that are somehow classified in different classes is either a different fee or a different culture. In an explanation for the refusal of amendments, the proposer wrote the following – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the land area is not the only parameter, since the basis for determining the level of the disposal fee is the annual calculation of the management and maintenance costs of the disposal system, and the construction of these systems is conditioned by the hydrological regime, topographic characteristics, land characteristics and the like. However, you in Article 180 of the same proposal for a compensation law for the so-called so-called so-called compensation. You don't have a specific class of land or agricultural culture. The only conditions, as I would say, are only the area of land for which compensation should be paid. In this case we have both class and agricultural culture, and when it comes to this other kind of fee, only the area is enough. Also, a colleague Markicevic spoke about the plums of some rivers. The fact is that rivers in Serbia carry more and more agricultural land. I would like to cite an example from the Pomorava County, more precisely the village of Svonova in the Municipality of Paracino, as regards the waterway of the Great Morava River, where it is constantly changing course, taking literally every day significant amounts of agricultural land. Deokoji may have looked different once on the map, now it looks quite different, and the specific regional route of Jagodina-Gilje-Varvarin-Trstenik will probably be threatened in a few years, because the Great Morava will probably cut him off. As for a public company that deals with water supply and water supply, just to point out that the Velika Morava riverbed rescue project was done at the village mentioned 10 years ago, but it's probably a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39948	A minute and 30 seconds have taken advantage of the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Member of the 171st Amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 173 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 173 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted the amendment before the SRS to Article 173 and it reads - the disposal fee is not paid for: 1) land and facilities used for the purposes of the defence of the country, the barracks, military polygons and other and public security, 2) building land under business and housing facilities, if the disposal fee is paid for a business, i.e. a residential facility, 3) agricultural land for which compensation is paid for the use of water for irrigation. We propose point 4) protected natural resources. What do we suggest? We suggest that they be excluded from paying protected natural goods, such as national parks, "Fruška Gora", "Gerdap", "Tara" and all other protected parts of nature. Why do we propose? For the simple reason that we know that the Deliblat cave needs to be irrigated, and we don't need to drain it. We also know how all these protected parts work, like national parks. They're in a very difficult economic situation. Profitability is low. They barely make ends meet. Since I work at the National Park of Fruska Mountains, I know we need to set aside five, six, seven, eight million dinars for this purpose. It's the height of one personal income for the employees. Other national parks also live on very modest and difficult economic opportunities and conditions. We believe that this amendment of ours should be accepted, that the Ministry or the Minister is pleased, that he smiled and said yes, we accepted this because of all these comments in his manner, so we expect that if the Minister, if he listened to what I was saying, he should accept this amendment in the interest of all of these factors, factors, entities and objects that I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39950	45 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Subsection 2.2.7 and Articles 183, 184, 185 and 186. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 189th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 191st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 193 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 194 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new section and three new members of 194a, 194b and 194v be added behind Article 194. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 196 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 199th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković to Article 199. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 201 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 201 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the SNS does not really apply to inspection surveillance, so in Article 201(1) of the Law, we proposed to delete paragraphs 4 and 5. In fact, paragraphs 4 and 5 of the proposal stipulates that the Autonomous Region and the city of Belgrade are entrusted with inspection tasks over the implementation of this law, which would be somewhat logical to me, but it is a problem with all others. We believe that inspection tasks must be carried out exclusively by the competent ministry, because it is about the unique interests of all Serbian citizens and that any territorial division of competences in this area is simply not acceptable. In particular, the question must be asked why only the city of Belgrade is entrusted with such jobs, not for example the New Sad, and Nis, and Kragujevac, and Jagodina and other cities, because there is no fundamental difference between cities and the interests of their inhabitants, especially when it comes to water. Depending on the forward position and the proposal in this article, it is obvious that there is also some mistake, as it is stated that the transactions referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 are entrusted and there are only three positions in front of these positions which list the supervisory tasks. This seems to be another proof that the laws that arrive at the adoption of the National Assembly are being prepared quite a bit, not to be too difficult a word, but recklessly, because it has become a practice for the bills to arrive with various errors, although all the instances of expert checks and public debate have apparently passed. But I'm getting more and more the impression that they're simply copying, not taking into account potential mistakes, which is actually happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39952	Anyone else want a word? If not, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic to Article 205. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 206 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 208 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 209 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 211 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 220 and 220. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 220th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39953	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Serbian Progressive Party to the 220th proposal to delete this member, otherwise it concerns failure to fulfil obligations by the chief inspector and environmental inspector. Prescribing the criminal punishment of an inspector for unscheduled work is not legally justified, as the inspector is a civil servant who, under the Law on civil servants for non-execution of labour, can be punished for breach of a labour obligation in a disciplinary procedure. This attitude is also referred to by the general rules of international law. An attempt to prescribe a criminal liability faces a multitude of legal and natural and practical problems. In order to be able to file a misdemeanour report against officials, someone must first determine that it was the inspector's fault, because it depends to a much greater extent on the organisation of the service and the burden on the individual inspector, rather than on the wishes and will of the inspector himself, of course. The finding of blame for the delay and overrun of the deadline cannot be left to the judge for the offences, because the judge does not have data on the state of affairs of the service which could have caused this delay. At the same time, according to the state administration's state of affairs, it is likely that inspectors and other officials would never have been able to earn even for the costs of the proceedings, not for the penalties, if, of course, all the delays were found with the judge for the violations. A provision on the misdemeanor liability of unscheduled officials likely first appeared in the Law on Planning and Construction, where the punishment was threatened by the failure to issue a building permit within 15 days, which, in my opinion, was a purely demagogue move. So far, no one has been granted a permit in 15 days, nor have there been conditions, and of course no one is even punished for it. There was no debate on this provision, as the law was passed in such a quick procedure that MPs did not have time or the members' titles to read, let alone discuss them. After that, in various proposals of the law begin to appear such, in a world of almost unknown provisions, such as this one, so it is obvious and I will repeat this, as I said in the previous discussion, on the scene of the restoration of the famous Resavska Prescription School.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39954	Thirty seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 221a be added behind article 221a. The representative of the proposer and the Committee on Agriculture accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. To Article 222. The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 226. The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, tabled an amendment to Article 228 and the proposing representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 230th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Agriculture have submitted an amendment to Article 232, and the proposing representative has adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word on the basis of Article 144? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. I hereby conclude the review of the draft water law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day by voting on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON RECOGNISATION OF THE SORT OF POLIJOPRIVOUS BILJA (individence) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Milorad Krstin, Dobrislav Prelic, Tomislav Nikolić, JorgovankaTabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Pelević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragoljubović, Dušan Marić, Dusan Marić, Goran Mijajić, Zaljić and Žilić, Žilić Šilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić and Žilić, Žilić. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and gentlemen of the Ministry of Agriculture, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants. This is what he would say: in Article 1st paragraph 2, the words "fruits and vines" are replaced by the words "fruits, vines and hops". Explanation: In February 2005, the Law on fruit material was adopted, where the words – fruit, vines and hops were mentioned, and in Article 1 paragraph 2 was left out, and I believe that the word "chmel" should also be inserted. I will now read what Article 1 of this Law says, and it is the subject of editing: "This law regulates conditions and procedures for the recognition of varieties of agricultural plants, the registration of varieties of agricultural plants in the register of varieties of agricultural plants, as well as the maintenance of varieties of agricultural plants." Now we come to this second position where I have otherwise submitted the amendment, and it says, "Under the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants in the meaning of this law, it is considered to be the recognition of the newly created domestic variety of rat and vegetable plants, fruits and vines." Now it's just supposed to be what I'm looking for, to add "veggies, vines and hops." I repeat, I don't know why you didn't accept this amendment, once again, in February 2005 a law on fruit material was passed. It stands well where the fruit, vines and hops are listed. Why are you throwing out the hop this time? If he's standing in the fruit material, if there's a bill here in front of us on the recognition of the variety of agricultural herbs, I don't see why you wouldn't just throw in this word "chmel." Now you automatically throw maltenes out of a variety of agricultural plants. I don't see any reason. The word "fruits and vines" should have been added after that. You don't lose anything here, you just get one real law. However, you have admitted some amendments, but you do not want any more amendments to accept the SRS parliamentary groups. All right, we've got a lot ahead of us here in this set of laws a lot of amendments, I hope you'll accept some.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39956	Thank you. Forty-five seconds of Parliament time. Mr. Prelic, you're after the amendment? The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, believe me, Mr. Minister, I expected this kind of response to this amendment I submitted, but that's another reason for me to present to the public what the SRS warned last year about when we had that set of laws in May, and above all it refers to genetically modified organisms. What we fear when it comes to our agriculture, and above all genetically modified organisms, is Monsanto, which was allowed in 2000 to import genetically modified soybeans. You know who did this, that it was Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic, that we tried to say and to appeal to the Ministry that inspections must go far more and more on the ground because the fact that modified soybeans are increasingly being practiced in our production. Those are the facts and we have to deal with it. What is also the fact that Monsanto has primarily the support of the US Ministry of Agriculture who openly expressed their dissatisfaction at the end of 2009, dissatisfaction primarily with our law prohibiting the production and transport of genetically modified food. You've probably recognized what the negative consequences are, and above all, I'm thinking about the World Trade Organization and we have assurances that you've made a commitment to change the law as soon as possible. Monsanto is the most powerful company that has invested huge money in order to simply flood the world with its products. In addition to the soybean seed, which is resistant to herbicides and where it is only allowed to be used as a total herbicide, where production costs are greatly reduced, they now have and want to place on our market primarily soybean corn and potatoes in which the gene from bacteria produced by toxin is incorporated and thus protected from insects. If it's harmful to insects, what kind of fact can it have in a human organism? Here's a simple question for you. What we said about modified soybeans is absolutely true, and the fact that a large number of these soybeans, i.e. weights, go to people who deal with soybeans, then our farmers who deal with livestock take that bite. It's usually where the milk is made and the milk goes to our children. We sincerely hope that, above all, the permission of these genetically modified varieties of corn and potatoes, and soybeans will not come here to us in Serbia, because if Monsant was allowed to interfere with our market, we are afraid that in ten years our fields would be flooded with genetically modified organisms. Monsanto is, I must say, still with some products from last year present on our market. We believe that, first of all, because of our seed houses, which are recognizable in the world, you will simply manage to resist this great lobby of the world's big companies. The SRS believes that at no cost, since we have here today and the Organic Production Act, which can certainly be a perspective, especially for small agricultural producers, or that we have to throw the accent there, and at no cost should be allowed, in any way, to use genetically modified food. I believe you won't allow it, but we'll be here to warn you. We warned you in time, and we hope you will be able to resist these world-wide companies. Although we doubt it, because when it comes to agriculture, there is, above all, a lot of dissatisfaction with our farmers, because they simply can't trust this country or this government anymore, because they've been cheated in a lot of cases. We will still have the opportunity to present to you in some way what we need and what the SRS thinks should be done – for the better development of our agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39958	Three minutes and 20 seconds of Parliament time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia and MP Srboljub Zivanovic to the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Zivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39959	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 2 of Section 1. Mr. Minister, the Law on modified genetic plants, you're about last year, maybe at this time or earlier, you said it was a ban on the use of seeds during sowing. However, I can see here now, and that is why I have submitted an amendment to this article item 1 – that you are about to approve of the use of modified seeds. Apparently, this is on certain occasions related, also unclearly explained in this article, which the seeds are concerned with, which the government would allegedly allow to use such modified seeds. You know well, and here I will tell you chronologically – that in 1996 the world was sown somewhere around 2.8 million ha of modified genetic plants; in 1997 that figure increased to 12.8 million ha; in 1998 there were about 27.8 million ha, while in 2010, it was projected to sow about 150 million ha. Today, around 59% of their used surfaces are used in the United States, sown with modified plants, Argentina about 20%, Canada and Brazil about 6%, and China around 5%. I ask you – is today what my colleague Prelic said in one exhaustive display, when we import certain premixes and certain livestock food that we use, means, in the production of livestock food in our country, i.e. certain additives for livestock, which is soybeans and grizzly, is this possible today in the area of Europe? Can such soya be used? Here, again, I'm going to tell you chronologically -- that somewhere around 60% of the areas in Europe are sown with soybeans, about 23% sown with corn and about 11% sown with cotton. On 23 March 2010, the European Commission approved the cultivation of modified potatoes, which would be used for industrial production - allegedly, only and exclusively for livestock nutrition. I'm asking you now – if when you use it for cattle nutrition, I also said it on my parent board on science and technological development, I don't know how familiar it was to you, but I believe that it is, how much food the cows produce in milk, or how much it manifests. I was one of the big milk producers, and I have to tell you that using it is what happens, that acid that's present in the silica, it manifests itself in the milk. Not to say, well you know, antibiotics and everything else that's forbidden, those who use antibiotics on animals, especially on cows, that kind of milk can't go into processing. So let's not look or hold on to that, the supporters say it's a continuation of the natural process, and the opponents say again that it's actually the opposite of genetic engineering in this area that penetrates natural genetics, because if we go back, even though I'm not an agricultural expert, but I'm dealing with a major military production, I have to tell you that you're using inorganic matter, it's artificial fertilizer. What are we using it for? So we can cheat on nature and get bigger offerings. This is the goal of using inorganic matter in plant nutrition. That is why this system, as Mr. Prelic explained, is why it is used, due to the increase in yields. With total herbicide, you will have no grass if you spray a soy, modified soybeans. I've been sowing over 15 acres of soy and I can tell you that I've never sown this modified soy, but there are those who sowed it. Do you know how she came to the Serbian market? Under the patronage of former Minister Dulic, who allowed the import of modified seeds, and it came to this seed that our agricultural estates were infected, to make it easier to produce that food, that is, that plant. So I think what you did last year and said that you couldn't use modified seeds of any kind, not here under a certain question mark, that should apply. Think again that what Australian experts tried to do to get a black rose using its genetics, failed, they still got a red one. So I'm afraid using these genetic potentials doesn't lead to malformation in our offspring.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39960	Four minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39961	At the beginning of work, this administration banned and imports of genetically modified soybeans for the feeding of cattle. I suppose you know that, and you know the contents of the Law on genetically modified organisms. I don't think I should further clarify the relationship we have with this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39962	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, tabled an amendment to Article 2. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Christin has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this proposal for a law on the recognition of a variety of agricultural herbs, I have submitted an amendment to replace the point in Article 4 after the word "Republic of Serbia" with a comma and add the words "and other countries that would put fruit material and seed into circulation". In order to make it more clear to both citizens and registered agricultural holdings and those dealing with this material, I will read this Article 4 and then use the time of the parliamentary group and clarify this amendment. Article 4. says this: The process of recognising the variety determines the quality and essential product characteristics of the variety, as well as the diversity, uniformity and stability of the variety, on which the variety can be recognised and the seeds and fruit material of the variety are placed on the market as varieties on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. All I asked was for it to expand, not only to be sort material to be put on the market in Serbia's territory, but also other countries that would put fruit material and seeds on the market. The Republic of Serbia was the leader within the former large Yugoslavia in the production of fruit material and seeds and large world exporters. You should know that Dr. Skoric created a variety of sunflowers that were recognized in the world. We export that seed a lot. Not to list all the known and recognized scientists from agricultural institutes in Zemun and Novi Sad who created famous and recognized varieties and corn, wheat and not to list the rest. These varieties look to this Article 4 as if they can't go on the market of those countries that want to co-operate with us and who need such fruity material and seeds. I have that feeling. I'm sorry, if anyone can explain this to me, let them tell me that I'm not thinking properly, but I don't see why our famous Zemunpolian and newly-sad corn varieties would go beyond the market of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see any reason. Why when those varieties are recognized? However, we have also come out to meet the EU, the World Trade Organisation, the United States, to import the "pionir", to import "KVS", "LS", these are all varieties that are now competing on Serbia's market to our agricultural institutes or known varieties of Zemunpolski and Novosad. That's obvious. Unfortunately, we can't influence for sure how many and whether any registered agricultural land will take the varieties of our domestic institutes or varieties that are imported? Especially when I'm talking about corn and sunflower varieties, and I think we should think about it for a little bit, that's all. to think about it, because I really don't see a reason why such fruit material, such quality, such a single seed doesn't get into traffic as sort material and seeds of other countries, whether in the environment or in Europe, in the East, the West, the South, the North, it doesn't matter at all, but we have to fight for our varieties that will go into the world. We should not just fight and let others import into our Serbia area sort material. Therefore, I only carried out one addition, extended this Article 4 and after saying "the territory of the Republic of Serbia" to be "other countries that would put fruit material and seed on the market", nothing more. No one makes anyone take these or those varieties, like I said a minute or two ago. May the agricultural producers themselves, i.e. the holders of registered agricultural holdings decide which varieties of seed, corn, sunflower, wheat are to be taken from, and from whom they will take. Please, let's see if we can expand our sorting material and seeds beyond Serbia's borders. It's just my proposal and the amendment that I put on Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39964	Three minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Anybody want a word? (No) National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. There's no answer for word. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Anybody want a word? (No) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The word is Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. The proposal for a law on the recognition of a variety of agricultural plants, which says that the words "15 days" are replaced by the words "eight days". It is necessary to shorten the time limit for completing the documentation, given that it is a serious matter of recognition of the agricultural variety and because it is a serious matter, it is therefore necessary to avoid any possibility of improvisation and, I would say, bureaucratic compliance for the pro-longing of deadlines. As for reasons for not accepting the amendments, I will quote what the Government said: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that we consider that a 15-day period for completing the dossier is an appropriate deadline, given the specificity of the matter in question, the time needed to obtain documentation, as well as the practice so far." It is likely that one who submits the request is so responsible that there may be a minor shortage in this case. One who prepares to apply for the recognition of the variety is certainly not so insecure that it submits incomplete documentation for such an important matter. So, this situation may be about some minor shortfall that doesn't take so long – 15 days, as you have predicted here, and it is probably in the interest of this applicant to remove this deficiency as soon as possible and to obtain the necessary permission, or to meet its request. This applicant requires, if he hasn't obtained the data by then, let's say the electoral material of the variety, if there are any, he won't have it in those 15 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39966	Twenty seconds have been used by the time of the authorised representative. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Sluzzard, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 15 of this law that regulates the variety of standards. And in principle commentary on this law, I said that there were no more of our institutes that dealt with these things and these standards. So, we've destroyed every parent, we've destroyed varieties, we've destroyed standards, and even by passing this law, I don't know what we're going to be able to do, essentially, whether we're going to start from zero or we're at some level where we won't be able to go, and why would we move when you know that the EU has flooded our market with fruit material and all varieties. I don't mind their kind, but I'm against that we've destroyed their own and their crops, and their parents and everything else. For the sake of the public, I need to read this amendment, see what we're proposing. Article 15: "The examination of the production and useful value of the variety shall be carried out at the same time as one or more varieties of the standard. The variety standard used during the testing of the production and use value of the variety cannot be replaced by another variety of standards until the test is completed. As a variety of standards, only the variety that is entered in the register of agricultural plant varieties and which is represented in the production on the territory of the Republic of Serbia can be determined." We propose to delete this attitude that I will read: "Extremely, if for a particular kind of agricultural plant, a type within a species of agricultural plant or for a particular purpose cannot determine a variety of standards, the variety is examined without variety of standards". This latest attitude "sorts are being examined without a variety of standards", it is a very suspicious comment in a future analysis. It will be able to abuse a lot of things and therefore the variety is tested without the variety of standards. The test and use value of the variety shall be carried out in one or more places. You can't conduct an interrogation without a variety of standards. That's the problem with this article, and we suggest that this attitude be erased. All this has already been prepared and you now want mutants and unknown hybrids to get through this law. That's why we believe that this attitude should be erased, to protect our varieties, our producers, and everything that is related to the profession and science.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39968	A minute and 15 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. The proposal for a law on the recognition of agricultural plant variety, to replace the words "many years" in attitude 2 with the words "at least six years". The term "many years" can also be interpreted as a lease for two, three or four years, since it takes up to six years under this law for certain sort monitoring processes. In particular, we have a situation in Article 13(2). I find it necessary to lease land conditions for at least six years for these purposes. Now I'm going to read a part of the argument that this amendment was rejected by the government, and we're going to see that we had the same intention, with some sublegal acts that should come later. The government says, "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 16(2) is based on Article 16(2). The proposal for a law defined that the reviewer must prove that he has land in his possession or on the basis of a lease contract that has been concluded for several years, and on the basis of the provision of Article 14(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The draft law will bring the conditions for land closer to the law, as well as other conditions to be met by the reviewer." The idea of writing this amendment was obviously good, considering what the government wrote in its explanation. It is, however, important to set the conditions for the length of land lease for the examination of the variety in the field of view of persons who meet the conditions as viewers. However, as far as we have passed the law in the area of agriculture in the past, where almost every third member has provided for writing sublaws and supplementary regulations, I doubt that the relevant regulations will be made in time, and until they are done, this Article 16 will be appropriate in its original form, as it is written. It'll be treated exactly the same as the one who rents the land for two years and the one who rents it for 10 years. The problem will be if, for example, someone rents land for three years to examine varieties of fruit and vines, for which it should be least, we see in Article 13, six years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39970	Forty-five seconds have been used by the MP's group. The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Mr. Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20. The proposal for a law on the recognition of a variety of agricultural plants, to add "which will be separated in the register from the register of domestic varieties" after the term "recognised domestic and foreign varieties". The amendment defines more precisely and more transparently the register of varieties of agricultural plants and separates domestic and foreign varieties. This is mainly about varieties that are yet to be produced, but we also have the same problem when many varieties, i.e. fruits and vegetables, are produced as ready to import into Serbia. Since fruit and vegetables have been imported into Serbia uninterrupted, Serbia has suffered double damage. It endangers, above all, the health of the population and destroys domestic production of fruits and vegetables. The question now is, when I say the health of the population, why do the EU countries and many other developing countries ask us for healthy food, and they deliver thousands and thousands of tons of fruit and vegetables to us, and genetically modified species? They set the standards, according to which we can import everything into Serbia, and we know why we are conditioned. It's enough to try apples, say, from Holland, Germany, vegetables from France, Belgium, and what's characteristic? It doesn't taste like shit, because genetics involved fingers. The important thing is that the product looks beautiful, red as in some photograph, to be seen by the customer, but what is the product will be seen over the decade when the mutations start to show up. What's proposed in this amendment to separate the domestic varieties in the register from the foreign ones, I don't see that it's so terrible, but let's make one comparison, it would be the same if we had foreign citizens on our polling list who had absolutely nothing to do with that status.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39972	Forty seconds. So, you've wasted your time as an authorised representative. Mr. Ilic, the time of the authorized representative is up, just so you have information. The parliamentary group has 38 and a half minutes left. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you just called for the first time today, which is unusual for you. You usually participate actively in the debate. Certainly, Mr. Minister, that we know and followed and participated in the debate on genetically modified organisms, but the SRS wants to warn of something that we don't think is good and that, first of all, you, as a resolution minister and ministry, must not allow by any chance, which is that genetically modified soybean, corn, and potatoes, and tomatoes, etc., and fruit enters Serbia legally. Why am I saying this? Because last year's laws were in May in the National Assembly, the first laws to enter the Assembly's meeting, and the Ministry of Agriculture allowed the company "Monsanto" to examine our fields in Zemun and the Institute in Novi Sad a month earlier. This is what we warn and what cannot be allowed here, and plus having such an opportunity to do a lot of things with regulations and sublaws after the adoption of the law, which we also had the opportunity to see last year when subsidies are at stake, where regulations have been lifted from pensioners to agricultural ones, the subsidy is limited to 30%, which we were talking about, and that non-community land has been abolished absolutely the right to aid from 40,000 dinars that they had. When it comes to subsidies, first of all, premiums, and subsidies and agricultural land per hectare, and for breeding heifers and for that hero, I must tell you that our individual agricultural producers are very unhappy with the work of your associates, who in every way look to return the documentation to our farmers. Believe me, Mr. Minister, it's so humiliating that it's just amazing. I personally had the opportunity to see where they say, when the complete documentation for the breeding heifers arrives, where they ask that even the grandmother was insulated, not just a mother, and you know for a fact that large agricultural systems have been sold and bought, that many farms have literally been destroyed. It is impossible to obtain real and official documentation in such a situation. There are people who do that. Then they ask that in court it be certified, imagine, on the back. I was personally in court when we received that remark, the people at my home in the field, believe that they were baptized in court – this is the first time someone's asked us to. What do I want to say? You're looking for any reason to deny the subsidy in some way to our farmers. We don't doubt your good intentions, but make sure the SRS finds that one of the reasons your people are doing this is the level of subsidies, or the budget that's been assigned to the Ministry of Agriculture in our country. You said you were happy and you were able to literally fight for a bigger budget this year. It doesn't take you, Mr. Minister, to fight at all for a larger agricultural budget. This should be felt by the president of the state, the Prime Minister and that you have the support of the entire government and that the agriculture budget is twice as big as it is now, so that you can see how our agriculture and Serbia will progress as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39974	Two-and-a-half minutes of Parliament time. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture tabled an amendment to Article 26. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Here you go, Mr. Jelice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honored Chairman, respected ministers, New Serbia has tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on the production of agricultural plant variety. Article 48 is amended as follows: "The rules for the implementation of this law will be passed within one year of the date of entry into force of this law". Recital - it is necessary that the sublegal acts necessary for the application of this law should be adopted as soon as possible, because if the law enters into force on the eighth day since the publication in the Official Messenger, then it is necessary to shorten this time limit and thus enable the law to be applied in the shortest time period.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39976	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. We have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, so the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE PIVU (specificities) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Miladinović, Milet Pošurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čolić; Željko Brestovic, Dusan Marić, Radiša Ilic, Milan Škrbić, Milorad Krstin, Dragan Živić, Milutin Želic, Milic, Miličić, Dobrislav Prelic, Momirović, Smirić and Mirić. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Chapter II above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment, MP Željko Brestovici submitted. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Christin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I filed a bill on beer amendments. In Article 5(1), after the word "ministration", the words "and which fully fulfils the legal requirements required for the registration of operations" are added. I'm going to read this Article 5 of Section 1 in order to make it clearer. He says, "The production of beer can be done by a legal person and by an entrepreneur registered in the Register of Business Entities and registered in the Register of Beer Producers, who runs the Ministry of Agriculture." Explanatory - the amendment defines more precisely who can comply with the law to deal with beer production and to register beer producers. It is very interesting to see the famous Apatin beer factory produce "Apathian Beer", but I am like many witnesses that this Apatin beer factory produces "Niksicko Beer", with a label that stands beautifully written "Niksicko Beer", and behind it stands – full of Apatin brewery. Now they can drill as they send us from a brewery in Montenegro and produce "Niksicko Beer". That beer is made with us in Apatino, a technology that reads the same thing about "Apathian Beer." It is one part of what should affect you to accept this amendment and to repeat once again why, in Article 5(1), that, after the word "ministration", the words "and which fully fulfils the required conditions for registration of activity". I really wouldn't want someone to put on other people's feathers, someone to produce technology like that "Apathian brewer" known for their technology, to produce the famous "Apathic Beer," and to have a label that says "Niksic Beer" i.e. The name of that beer is "Niksicko beer." I think we should really regulate that with this amendment. It's not just "Niksicko beer." We have others who use the technology of our brewers in Serbia, and the names are beer from other countries in the environment. Therefore, I think you should accept this amendment that I have tabled before the SRS parliamentary group. There are a lot of amendments to the bill on beer, but I think you'll accept one. If nothing else, we're a famous nation of beer, well, at least for as long as they know they're drinking "Niksicko Beer" so they know they're drinking "Apathian Beer" and not "Niksicko".
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39978	Two minutes of MP time was used. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. No one answered for the word. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Here you go, Mr. Jelice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I have submitted an amendment to the beer law. Article 6 is amended as follows: The register referred to in Article 5 of this Act shall in particular contain: 1) information on the manufacturer, 2) data on the responsible person, (3) the operational code, (4) the data on the volume of annual production, the consumption of raw materials and finished products, (5) the data on the facilities and rooms for the production and storage of raw materials and finished products, 6) the data on equipment and devices for production and filling, 7) the data on quality and certification standards, 8) the data on the volume of annual sales. The manufacturer is obliged to report any change in the data kept in the register to the Ministry within 30 days of the day of the change. The records are public. The registry is conducted in written and electronic form and can be linked to other bases and registers of the ministry. The Minister shall provide for the content and manner of keeping the register closer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39980	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39981	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you see, Mr. Minister, I've been trying to understand why you didn't accept the amendment, I really don't understand. Namely, what it's about. In Article 6 paragraph 1 after point 7 a new point 8 is added) data on facilities and premises, i.e. the laboratories, for daily water quality control, so that the existing point 8 would become point 9). In your explanation, you say - the amendment is not accepted because the register does not have to contain data on facilities and rooms for daily water quality control, for reasons why water quality control is carried out by authorized laboratories. I think this would be more cellular and above all more responsible, but good. This is also the attitude towards opposition MPs to accept very few amendments, but we are here to warn our citizens and to regularly inform them of everything we think is not good that you are doing. The fact is, of course, that some breweries in Serbia are well privatised. When I say, well, that looked good, first of all, in relation to the workers who were employed in our brewery. Later, however, it turned out that what is a priority, an economic interest, and that all these buyers are looking at their economic interest, so there's been a big change in the Apathian brewery, so now we all know how many Apatian brewers only had their own trucks. It's all sold out and the privates are coming in slowly, and it's the strangers, driving our "Apathian Beer." The entire administration was transferred here to Belgrade. Also, something similar is happening in chelarev, not to mention "BIP." We all know how many workers worked here and the privatisation has been cancelled. This isn't addressed directly to you, but first of all, it's an irresponsible attitude of the state towards such and such strong companies. We think that the BIP should be given special attention and that everything that has been done is done out of some personal interests, in the interest of bringing the BIP to the edge of the beggar stick, as has been done with many businesses in Serbia. Now, no matter what the state takes to help the BIP and these people, and I have to say that 80% of the people in the BIP didn't even get severance, that they were waiting, and now it turns out after this annulment of privatisation that the question is whether or not they're going to end up getting anything and it's going to be too late easy for the BIP, as well as for many strong companies that have been sold in Serbia, I say, in a very radical way. Unfortunately, that's the fate of the BIP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39982	Twenty seconds of Parliament time. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. There's no answer for word. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Željko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovsky. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The word is Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill of Beer, and this is to the 15th member of this law. Namely, my amendment refers to the declaration and I asked that the manufacturer's declaration be such that it contains as much information on the quality and origin of beer as possible. Of course, it is not necessary to stress that when it comes to food, drink and anything else that is introduced into the organism, it should be clearly, loudly and precisely defined and that it has a more comprehensive declaration, because all these parameters are on the declaration. However, the government, in its explanation for not accepting my amendment, says - the amendment is rejected for the reason that the declaration must not lead to consumer error at all in any sense. I must say, I absolutely agree with this argument of the government. But with the amendment, I was also asking for it to be extended, to more clearly define the declaration more comprehensively, so as not to lead the consumer into error. Why did I write the amendment? I didn't write it just like that, I wrote it simply for a reason that in practice it's completely the other way around when it comes to consumers. Very often we have the opportunity to consider the declarations of various products, in particular in this case beer, do not contain as many percentages of the ingredients and the ingredients on the declaration, which are determined daily by various inspections. In this way, consumers are led astray, although it is said otherwise in the explanation. This is not the only way for consumers to go astray. There are, unfortunately, many ways in which consumers are led astray today, except for those where the declaration says something other than what is in the package, in this case specifically in a bottle of beer. But, for example, consumers are led astray and when they go to the bank to raise credit, where the interest that a certain bank advertises on television is no longer that interest when it meets a client. Consumers are led astray through various networks of mobile phones, where when our mobile phone bill arrives we see that the minute does not cost 5, 10 or as many dinars as it is in that package, but simply much more and in a variety of ways. Here, today we have in all the newspapers that operators of any mobile network offer various types of telephones for just one single dinar. It's one of the biggest delusions about consumers being wrong. I really don't know anyone who could buy a phone for a single dinar, but that's one of the ways consumers are wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39984	A minute and 40 seconds have been used by the MPs' group. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The word is Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18. The proposal for a beer law to be added "as an authorised body of the Ministry, prescribed by this law" in the post 3rd post of "inspector". The amendment unequivocally determines who is in charge in front of the Ministry and authorised to verify any shipment of beer exports, and it must clearly stand in writing in this law. When an ordinary man reads an explanation for the refusal of amendments, the first question will be the following - in which country we live, do we have our own state and are we subjects of Brussels or Belgrade? Here's what it says in the explanation. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the inspector is not an authorised body of the ministry, but is an authorised agricultural inspector who was given the authority by depositing his signature in Brussels. From now on, it seems that not only agricultural inspectors, but also inspectors from other areas, perhaps teachers, perhaps teachers, commissioners, will go to Brussels to get a license for their account. Where it will lead us we will see, and this is just one small episode that we have, behold, had the opportunity to see and hear just from this argument that the government is referring to this important question. On top of everything that most of these foreign countries bought our brewers, here, we have a situation that now our inspectors, with their powers from Brussels, are controlling our export goods.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39986	The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and gentlemen of the Ministry, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19 that defines beer transport, so that in Article 19, paragraph 1, after the word "feelings" is stuck and they add the words "which must clearly stand on the label of the product". I'm going to go back and explain it again, and I need to read Article 19(1) first. It reads: Beer must be transported, held and placed in traffic in a manner and under conditions that ensure the preservation of physical, chemical, microbiological and sensory characteristics. Now I'm asking, since it says nicely here that it provides for the preservation of physical, chemical, microbiological and sensory properties, let's see, how does "Niksicko Beer" provide these conditions, and it's loaded in Apatino? I'm interested in that. Just to go back to Article 15(3) says - the declaration must be visible, clear and readable and must not lead to consumer confusion. The buyer goes to the market, buys "Niksicko Beer", takes the normal time to honor him, comrades and friends, doesn't matter, and doesn't look behind, where he writes – full of Pivara Apatin. We're doing these many favors again to some who, in time, stabbed us in the back. To take advantage of the opportunity, there is a minister, as is every time it comes to a set of laws or agricultural laws. The Granjanin brewery was destroyed thanks to a certain number of people or the last one that destroyed it was the famous Rajic, a great friend of Goran Knezevic. A grain brewer, who wore her label the year she started working, which is 1745, and instead of us going out to meet and just filling up and pouring beer in Apatino, so it's a grain beer, we have beer days in Zrenjanin, we don't have a brewery. If this is the real news that I've heard about, thanks to people, starting with the mayor and the Ministry of Agriculture, it seems that this year, it's easy to wait for beer day, but it looks like we're going to have some intention of starting a brewery, which I think is very commendable. But I can't understand, I'm still going back and forth, that we are doing services and making "Niksic beer" in Apatino, and we are not doing services to that destroyed brewery, which was destroyed by this Rajic along with Goran Knezevic, who is now a high-ranking official of the Serbian Progressive Party. He also destroyed the Vienna factory, and the grain factory of beer. If that's the real information, Mr. Minister, that an action was launched to rebuild a beer factory in Zrenjanin, which began to pour beer the first time in 1745, then this is commendable. It is not to praise what services are being done and beer is being poured in Apatino called "Niksicko Beer", where Article 15 automatically violates Article 3, which reads – the declaration must be seen, clear and read and not be confused by consumers. He was led astray as soon as he took a beer, and he didn't read behind to fill it with Apache.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39988	It was used two and a half minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mrs. Vice President Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39989	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the short-time speaker, the SRS MP, who comes from Zrenjanin as I do, mentioned Zrenjanin's brewery as one very bad example of a compromised privatisation. The Granjanin brewery was privatized in the fall of 2003. In addition to the Zrenjanin brewery, the Vienna brewery, as well as Jagodinska, was privatized. The Vienna brewery was founded in 1822, and if we compare it to Zrenjaninski, which was founded in 1745, then we get interesting information about the fact that both breweries were created in the 18th century or early 19th century. It's a long tradition brewery. They probably had good production, too, successful, so it's odd that both of them stopped producing beer after they were bought by Mr. Rajic, and that's right within a few months after he took possession of both the brewery. The Zrenjanin brewery was privatized in autumn 2003, and in 2004, production began. Since then, production has not been restarted. Unfortunately, with the production stopped, the brewery and the workers were out of work. Today, a total of 16 workers work in that brewery. Out of the last 300 and some workers there were 16 left, and it didn't have to be that way. Since April 1st, a two-month deadline has begun, since the brewery has been blocked for more than three years, over 50 million dinars. Within two months, a bankruptcy procedure must be initiated. Otherwise, there is automatic liquidation of such a significant economic entity as the Zrenjanin brewery. I think it's completely incomprehensible and unreasonable to welcome the end of those two months without the state doing anything to make things better. The tax administration is looking for 307m dinars and therefore the account of Zrenjaninska brewery has been blocked for more than three years. The state has 40% of the capital in this Zrenjanin brewery. It is totally incomprehensible to the inertness of a state that does not care how this business operates, although it has a good share of capital in the company. The value of capital in the meantime has dropped significantly. Today, it is about 20% of the capital that this brewery was worth in 2005. She fell to a quarter of her value. What does that tell us about this kind of privatisation? He's talking about the fact that the state has really taken the stepmom towards the processing industry, that it's neatly recording all claims against the legal person, and he doesn't care that she has a stake in the legal person. He's not doing anything to stop this process of a rapid collapse. However, it is not the same for every legal person as it takes care of its interests, the interests of citizens and workers. Let's say, of the three breweries I mentioned, one brewery is in the restructuring phase. It's a strawberry brewery. The Privatisation Agency has made a decision on restructuring. We welcome that. Debts were written off by the brewers, or creditors gave up their claims. We assume the trustee is the same as the trustee at the Zrenjanin brewery. If the state itself has contributed to increasing the loss of that Zrenjanin brewery by its inert behaviour, if the state is a majority trustee, or the only trustee with that amount of 307 million, it is completely incomprehensible why the state is not doing anything to reorganise, or restructure this brewery, especially by taking certain steps towards this brewery in Jagodina. We also talked about different treatment, different behaviour between politicians and different behaviours by the institutions of the state depending on the region, or cities and municipalities from which individual politicians come. Is that the only criterion that a legal person will be reorganized, is one company going to be restructured, is that the only criterion that the state recognises and applies? There was obviously one criterion in these three breweries, because it also proves that only one of those three brewers is in the restructuring phase. I mentioned that both breweries in Vojvodina, both Vienna and grain, with a long tradition, with good production. The Granjanin brewery also had the production of "porter" beer, the Granjanin brewery also had the production of "euro malca" or "tut guta" which and how it had its own market, as well as only the Granjan beer. Therefore, if noted and known, and could be seen and known over the past six or seven years that there are certain problems with the functioning or operation of certain economic operators, why the state has done nothing. Why didn't she take it to prevent further decay? Why didn't the state ask, through its particular institutions and bodies, what's going on with privatisation? Why has she allowed privatisation to be compromised to this extent that there is one opinion among citizens, among workers who have lost their jobs, that privatisation is the cause of all their misfortunes and that privatisation has ruined Serbia. Privatisation didn't ruin Serbia. Only certain compromised privatisations, only certain inert behaviours of the state led to the situation and Zrenjaninska, as well as the Vienna brewery. At the very least, and Jagodinska, who needs that restructuring. Therefore, if we start from this situation that Zrenjaninska brewery is able to continue to produce beer, as it did until 2004, it will find the most likely market for its products. Therefore, if the restructuring of this brewery can employ a number of grain citizens, i.e. workers of that brewery, why the state does nothing to realize it. Especially since, as far as we know from the daily press and even if this subject is followed, beer consumption is growing from day to day. Therefore, it is necessary to use the potential of these grain brewers, as well as the Vienna brewery, in order for Serbia to re-industrize, because all that has been done over the past 60-70 years, it is obvious that in the short 10-20 years it has been destroyed. Granjanin needs re-industrisation. Grainin had a developed industry. If there are already potentials and the possibility needs to be exploited. Therefore, if Zrenjaninska brewery is allowed to be privatised for a really small amount of funds, because 51% of the capital, Mr Rajic paid with 55m dinars, or 912m euros, even though the total value of Zrenjaninska brewery's capital at the time was 9.5m euros. This is a good indicator that if the state already has a certain share in the capital of a legal person, it can affect how this legal person will develop further, that further produces, further exists or simply shut down and disappear. The results are that we can expect the Zrenjanin brewery to be completely liquidated within a month, to cease to exist such a good company, or a good business until a few years ago. That's no use to anyone. The restructuring and thus to achieve certain benefits, since above all, the state would again be able to charge taxes, taxes and contribute to all that workers, or one legal person, or one company in office can pay. Although she would now write off her claim of 307 million dinars over a longer period of time, she would pay far more for her claim, and she would have satisfied citizens and satisfied workers, who would finally start working and simply take responsibility for themselves, and not leave that responsibility to the state to seek social assistance, although they are capable of working and wanting to work, while investing their entire working and life span in such a serious Zrenjanin beer industry. I appeal to the competent, above all to the Privatisation Agency, to do everything to enable the Zrenjanin beer industry to treat the same treatment, as well as the treatment that is available to the Jagodina brewery. I think we all have a common interest, which is that the Serbian industry is finally coming to life and that we can really achieve that the state can charge taxes, not take loans to consolidate and avoid one final bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39990	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, similar to the previous amendment, but you did not encounter the need to accept the proposed solution. In Article 22, point (10), after the word "quality", the words "based on laboratory findings" are added. In an explanation, we have obtained that the amendment is not accepted because it is necessary for the inspector to have the authority to at any time check whether the quality of the raw materials used in the manufacture of beer corresponds to the prescribed quality, not only to control the report on the analyses carried out. I don't know what you meant by that the inspector checks the water quality at all times. We think it was more logical for the labs to do it, the minister won't be at any time to check the quality of the water, to do it by the lab, and the minister can control the lab's findings anyway. We heard here that a couple of brewers in Serbia are not working, I mentioned the Belgrade beer industry, so counterparts Krstin and Mrs. Judith mentioned Zrenjaninska and the Vienna brewery. The brewery was also indirectly tied to our agricultural production. You know we've had hops all over Vojvodina. Unfortunately, there's absolutely no more today. Why isn't there? Because imports of malt from abroad, because all brewers that were in Serbia will remain at the level of two-thirds that will hold the monopoly and import the malt, production in Serbia is absolutely not necessary. Today, when our farmers go to the brewery to pick up the beavers or the malate, as we call it, to feed cattle, we find some corn grains somewhere, which our people would say, a little cross, but they'll throw it out, too. When they cross him a little bit more, then we get a little more headaches after more beer. It's mostly because of that. What's the point? Which is also how many of our territories lost their primary production, and especially in Vojvodina, there were many agricultural combinations that dealt with the production of hops, today absolutely barns are destroyed. The import lobby works, and that's not just the case when it comes to our brewers. This is also the case when sugar canes are involved and milkers are involved. Privatisation and sugar and dairy, and you know what's interesting, that all these tycoons that buy these companies buy them in May or June, when production is based, normally without dinar investment in production. And then they say smart, the finished production just takes off in such a way as they were then destroyed, and these, these few brewers in Serbia, who simply have no return, passed through and sugar in Bac after that famous nine-euro privatisation, bought by Mr. Kostic. The stove hasn't been lit for two years. So passed the milkmaker at the brewery bought by Imlek, or Salford, who didn't work for a month after the privatisation. You know, you've heard all over Serbia about famous beer cheese. That's how the milkman fell in the chimneys of the Ojacanka. There's only a few people left to work. They were almost Imlek's representatives from New Sad. You know what they said to the workers. We did not buy you to develop you. At least they were honest and they said to them in the eyes – means that they too, like most, unfortunately a large number of our people who ended up on the street, will end up as well. This must absolutely stand in the way when agriculture is concerned, because agriculture has a tremendously high capacity and agriculture can certainly stand on stable feet, but must have a completely different relationship, not only the Ministry of Agriculture, but must have the support of the complete government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39992	Two minutes and 25 seconds. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 23. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, this amendment, which I have submitted only at first glance, seems to be of a technical nature. However, I believe that he is essential in nature, and you will see to it from my argument. Namely, Article 23. The draft law on beer speaks of the situation - what does the agricultural inspector do when he finds certain shortcomings in the application of this law? So, in such cases, you taxively list it in this Article 23, it makes a solution to the temporary ban on performance and, in that case, it sets a deadline in which these shortcomings, which it has established in its solution, will be eliminated. Among other things, there are 17 points of taxation in which he can or may determine these shortcomings and order these shortcomings to be addressed. One of those points is point 10, to which I submitted the amendment. This point 10 speaks of a service charge of beer that does not correspond to the prescribed quality. In my amendment, I asked that the words "listed in the declaration" be added. Therefore, the inspector will make a solution to the temporary ban on performance, if he finds that the service of the beer does not correspond to the prescribed quality, so I ask that the word "listed in the declaration" bees be added. Mr. Minister, how are we going to know what the prescribed quality is? How are you, me or someone else gonna know in fact and how we're gonna react to the Secretary-General, if it doesn't say anything about what the prescribed quality is, and that prescribed quality is written in the declaration, right? Where this prescribed quality should stand – therefore, in the declaration on that label. What's prescribed should stand on the declaration. It is perfectly normal and adequate to accept this amendment, because it is clear that what is prescribed should be written and written somewhere, and that is logical and only correct – to be on the product quality declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39994	A minute and a half of the time of the parliamentary group. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill of Beer and to Article 23 of this bill. Namely, I asked my amendment to increase the deadline for the appeal of the agricultural inspector's solution from eight to 15 days. Of course, you did not accept this amendment. In your explanation, you claim the opposite of what I have claimed, that the term of eight days is sufficient. Of course, I would not like to make a difference with you in that sense – you claim what you claim. I want to remind you that I have not submitted this amendment just for the sake of being as many amendments as possible, and that in this way someone would be promoted as an MP or as a group of MPs, I have simply felt that the proposal, or my solution that I have made with the amendment, is much better. In fact, some good practice when it comes to making any complaint says that some standard, classic, uniform 15-day deadline, and that's why I asked for this 15-day deadline. I mean, you didn't respect this, but that's your business. But there's something else I want to say about this beer law. It is not clear to me at all why this beer law is being passed, when we know, and we have heard here from many colleagues in this assembly, of course we are from all over Serbia, that our brewers, Serbian brewers, are in desperate condition – many have shut down production, many are operating on the edge of rentability. This is what our colleagues talked about, first of all from Vojvodina, because Vojvodina can be seen as a cradle of beer, brewery in Serbia. I come from Nis, from central Serbia, and I'd like to say there's not just a beer factory in Vojvodina. We heard it here and we know there's a famous factory in Zajecar, so Nis has his beer factory, so a Valjevo beer, etc., not to count it. These factories are either almost destroyed or closed. The low beer factory was shut down one minute. However, he now operates in a way, he has a certain production, but it is very weak and the workers are almost not receiving the salary, while it is a factory with a large and long tradition. What's noticeable about privatisation? What did this country, the government, do first? First, she privatized the brewers, because that's where the big money turns, and the one who buys certain brewers must have made a certain profit. Now, of course, he doesn't need some brewery, some factories inside Serbia, because now we see that he's slowly moving on to the production and packaging of beer in bottles of half a liter or 0.33 liters, and we know that our man in Serbia is primarily used to that standard packaging, a bottle of half a liter. The area I come from is said – which beer is best, is best that beer that is drunk in front of the cooperative. It's real. Simply, through this packaging and through all of this can be seen and it is evident that beer production is slowly choked, i.e. to survive only large, that their goal is only to extract profit – it is seen through packaging.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39996	One minute and 55 seconds of Parliament time. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. There's no answer for word. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on VeterinarsTV (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Miroslav Marinković, Milica Vojić-Marković, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić and Donka Banović, Dušan Marić, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Masić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Pjeljić, Miletko Radić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučitea Živića Žirića Žilić, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You received a report from the Agriculture Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. There's no answer for word. The People's MP, Vlad Milojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. There's no answer for word. The People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does Mr. Christin want a word? He does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can tell that you've really made changes and additions to this law professionally. That's what the EU asked of you. We've had the veterinary law, you've completed it now, and I can tell you that we've had terrible problems, along with a team of experts from the veterinary domain, to try to shape it a little bit more as we think it would be legally better. I tried to try to get you to accept my amendment somehow. I've tried to write it quite briefly, and that's the amendment to Article 4. A bill that I have submitted, and in Article 4(1), to be deleted. I deliberately tried to see if there was a possibility on your part to accept that amendment of mine, but you did not accept it with an explanation that I would still have to read. "The amendment is not accepted for the reasons in Article 4. Proposal for a law of the defined obligation of the owner and holder of animals, and in Article 64 point 7. The Veterinary Act is a list of all the measures imposed by the Ministry in order to prevent the spread, control and eradication of animal diseases. "I will read that article in 64 that you have called against my amendment, and I will read that point 7. Point 7 of Article 64 says this - the collection and safe disposal of dead animals or killed animals, as well as products of animal origin, food of animal origin, food of animals, tracers or secretions which cannot be decontaminated by cleaning and disinfection. I don't know what it is that can't be decontaminated. Literally today in this 21st century, there are no funds that can't be decontamination of what you've listed here by cleaning and disinfecting. Unfortunately, it is another amendment that we have submitted as a parliamentary group, which you have not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39998	A minute and 40 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. There's no answer for word. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u39999	How much time is left for the MP's group?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u40000	There's 22.20 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u40001	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Veterinary Use by adding to Article 4 after point 4a) the following point 4a: "and creating conditions for the smooth implementation of the programme of animal health measures", and the existing positions 2, 3, 4 and 5 become points 3, 4, 5 and 6. The amendment improves the proposal for a law, in the sense that animal keepers close small animals in a fenced area before the arrival of the veterinary service and place large animals on the bond. The government has not accepted this amendment. Here's what she wrote in an explanation for not accepting the amendment: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Veterinary Act already prescribes the obligation of the owner and the holder of animals to enable the implementation of the animal health care programme." Obligations of animal owners and keepers are prescribed to allow animal health care measures to be implemented. However, as these animals are kept, we know well, especially if we go a little inside Serbia. For example, dogs that have owners who, when something happens, reject any kind of responsibility pose a great danger to people in the immediate environment, especially school children. Veterinary services must take part in solving this problem both in the interests of humans and in the interests of animals. It is not enough just to regulate this problem in order to comply with the EU directive. It's not just the case with this law, it's also with many other laws that are passed by some accelerated procedure, to get us some candidate status. What happens in practice in Serbia? Public utility companies have somehow taken over some role in removing stray dogs from the streets, and they have no equipment. Furthermore, the accommodation capacity for these animals is zero or insufficient, they are simply small. Those who are most endangered are actually children. As far as this Veterinary Act is concerned, we can pretend that everything is fine, just for the very reason I was talking about meeting these conditions. However, we know how the Animal Welfare Act requires dealing with them. That's what they are, I'd just say the good wishes our law writer framed in such a European way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-26-0.u40002	A minute and 55 seconds have been used by the MP's group. As the working time of today's session expires, on the basis of Article 85, it's 6:00 p.m., we'd end today's work. Continuing tomorrow, on Tuesday, April 27, 2010, at 10.00 p.m., the possibility offered to MEPs by Article 235. Rules of Procedure, and subsequently by amendment to Article 4 submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov, etc. Thank you for your cooperation and welcome.
