ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38762	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 95 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for meetings, in addition to the representative of Prime Minister Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, to be attended by Snezana Obrenov, Assistant Minister of Postal Traffic and Petar Janjic, head of the cabinet of ministers. We continue to work towards the agenda. We move to a joint principle search of the 18-83rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSES OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POSTAL SERVICES, APPROVAL OF THE AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE XII OF THE REGION CONFERENCE ON THE INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION FOR PLANNATION OF THE DIGITAL TERRIAL AUTRAL AUTHORITY, CONCERNATION OF THE REGIONAL AUTHORITIES OF REGION 1 AND 3 IN THE FRECTIONAL COMMUNICATIONS 174 TO 230 MHz AND 470 to 862 MHz (RC-06), CONCERNING THE PROTOGYAL OF THE SPECUAL (ZOES) With resolutions (RC-06-Rev. ST61) AND RECOGNISING THE ACACT OF THE CONSTITUTION AND CONVENTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time spans as well as that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group of MPs - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Group of MPs New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you, at the same time, that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them: MP Đuro Peric, MP group of PUPS; MP Dejan Radenkovic, MP group SPS - JS; MP Zeljko Ivanji, MP group G17 plus. According to Article 142(2) and Article 152(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Postal Services; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments to Article XII of the Agreement on an International Telecommunications Satellite Organisation; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Final Acts of the Regional Conference on Radio-communications for Planning of Digital Terrestrial Broadcasting Service in Parts of the region of One and Three, within the relevant frequency range; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements of Certain Parts of the Regional Radio-Difusion Agreement with Resolutions (Stakholm 1961) and the draft law on the validation of acts amending the Constitution and the Convention of the International Telecommunications Union. I would also like to inform you that a representative from 18, 80 to 83 will be Vladan Jeremic for the SRS parliamentary group in the debate. Before I give my word to the motionors, on the basis of Article 85(5) and Article 27, I would like to inform the National Assembly that we will be working today even after 1800 hours of debate on the agenda points that will be the subject of our work at that time. On the basis of Article 27, in the event that a joint principle and uniform search on points 18 and 80 to 83 ends before 18:00 hours, we will also open today a common principle and single search on points 21, 59 and 60, on the draft law on the Central Register of Obligor Social Insurance, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Labour Organisation Convention No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on Social Security. If the debate on the open agenda doesn't end until 6:00, then we'll only be working until the debate is over, which is just open. Does the representative of Telecommunications and Information Society's Proposer Jasna Matic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38763	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as you have heard, you have today several legislative proposals in the field of telecommunications and postal traffic, in particular the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services. The reason for law-making is the rapid development of postal traffic, which in all the world and in Europe is causing numerous and frequent changes in the regulatory environment. Due to the rapid development of postal traffic, there is a need to regulate and control the postal services market, and for us it is important to bring the laws into line with EU legislation, i.e. Directive 2002/39 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, as well as the acts of the World Postal Union, which were brought to Congress in Bucharest, October 2004 and Geneva in 2008, as well as the requirements of the World Trade Organisation in Serbia's accession process to the World Trade Organisation. It is also important to ensure full application of applicable laws in practice, as well as supervision of the application of the basic law, which will be fully ensured by these amendments of the law. Since, in accordance with the law, the first Agency Council was appointed at the end of 2009, there was a need to amend individual members of the proposal, which was also provided. The fact-finding work of the Postage Services Agency since 1 February 2010 has created conditions for performing the tasks that are in their jurisdiction. The basic provisions of the law define and explain the concepts of printed items, the transfer of postal mails, post office mails, the damage compensation that a postal operator is required to make up for in the event of overruns of delivery, loss or damage to a postal consignment. The obligations of postal operators to act in accordance with their specific conditions, to ensure the non-violence of postal consignors and the confidentiality of data, shall provide for the content of the receipt certificate of registered consignment and the possibility of transfer of contracts made by individual postal services. The other provisions of the law define the universal postal service and the precise and prescribed provision of universal service, as well as the issues of issue, sale and withdrawal from the use of postage marks, carried out by a public postal operator with the consent of the Government, in accordance with the acts of the World Postal Federation. The law has been amended in the part where the public postal operator's obligations are indicated in respect of accounting monitoring and separation of the costs of reserved and unreserved postal services, and in the context of universal services that the public operator must provide. Responsibilities and damages shall specify the obligations of the postal operator to compensate for the proven damage caused by the postal operator, in accordance with the acts of the World Postal Federation. Complementary of the law on the specificisation of the supply of the necessary documentation to the Postage Services Agency has been implemented to demonstrate compliance with the conditions for the performance of postal work. The powers of inspectors have been supplemented to suspend and comply with the deadlines for the second-degree settlement with the deadlines provided for by the procedural law of eight days, not as currently provided for by the law, in the case of estrangement, transfer to a third-party or counter-approval provided for in the permit. Penalties for the violation of the Article have been imposed. 6, 24 and 29. The law and the text of the Basic Law on the introduction of a mandate to be imposed and charged on the spot by the Inspector. Change of deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts. Instead of six months, it's set at three months. A change has also been made in line with the break-up of the SFRY and the unification of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro by the application of federal laws and by the adoption of a republican law governing the provision of postal services, publishing and printing of postal marks. The status of the Yugoslav and Yugoslav PTT communities were also regulated. In addition to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services, four ratifications in the area of telecommunications are before us today, which should provide a transition from analogue to digital broadcasting of the TV programme in the Republic of Serbia, and in line with the recommendations of the International Telecommunications Union, as well as a recommendation from the European Commission to do so by 2012. Since these are very technical things, I would not bother you with these details, but I would like to point out that it is of paramount importance to ratify these four conventions that Serbia has signed, so that we can, within a similar time limit as our neighbours, carry out the transition from analogue to digital television, allow our citizens to be able to get a smooth reception of the television signal and without interference from neighbouring countries, most of which are already already in EU membership and will therefore respect the EU's recommendation to end up on digital television by 2012. In some of our neighbours, the switch to digital broadcasting has already begun and when these processes reach our borders, citizens living in Serbia's border crossings will have interference and threatened reception of the television signal. It is therefore necessary that we also approach this process of switching from analogue to digital television, which is why we need to ratify the existing four conventions that are in front of you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38764	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Transport and Communications Committee, MP Velimir Ilic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Lasslo Varga, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs Radica Jocic, Momir Markovic and Sladjan Mijaljević, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38765	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services. The main problem, among other things, that needs to be solved by this law is that the Republic Post Office, as an independent regulatory body, and after three years has not yet begun work because the Agency's advice has not been chosen. That's a little weird at least, but it looks like we're on our way from a dead end. Otherwise, the failure of this agency to which it has been legally entrusted, in addition to other transactions, and the adoption of sublegal acts, as the main instrument for the implementation of the Law on postal services, has led to the lack of these sublegal acts creating a legal void and the emergence of a large number of postal operators who are unauthorized to provide postal services. A transitional solution to this problem has been found to entrust certain tasks to the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, until the agency's advice is chosen. It comes to him as a necessary evil because it's just amazing that in three years he couldn't choose the agency's advice. However, it is good, in addition to all the faults, that the adoption of this law is in line with EU directives in the area of postal traffic. In the absence of a postal service agency, the situation on the postal market is characterised by a high degree of irregularity. The way it is proposed to put off the accumulated problems is that some of the agency's jobs, until its constitution, perform, as we said, the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society. It is foreseen that the Ministry prescribes and regulates the conditions for the start of performance, in particular to prescribe conditions for the maintenance and improvement of the provision of universal postal services and to supervise the application of this law and regulations adopted on the basis of it and to assign a greater role to regulatory bodies in the field of postal services. The law more precisely defines the conditions under which postal operators will participate equally in the postal service market. Customers of postal services are provided with the right to universal postal service, both physically and legally, on equal terms, without discrimination and affordable prices. The law fully respects all international norms and national rules relating to environmental protection. The provision of a universal postal service is entrusted to a public postal operator, but at the same time it is possible to provide other postal services and other postal operators according to established quality standards and needs of citizens and businesses, which is very good. The law provides for various measures to be taken to achieve the need for the adoption of this law - regulation of the postal services market by the ministry, the appointment of members of the Agency's Council and the start of its work, the adoption of sublegal acts as an instrument for full application of the law, implementation of a strategy for the development of postal services and action plan, the gradual liberalisation of the postal market, the division of competences and powers between different entities, the continuous improvement of the quality of postal services. It is very important to stress that this law is in line with positive EU legislation, in particular with the directive, as it is said in 2002 of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, then with the acts of the World Postal Union and the demands of the World Trade Organisation. Based on an analysis of EU acts regulating the area of postal services and related recommendations, the so-called "postal service" was also considered. The third postal directive 2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, as this third postal directive, as it is claimed, makes more precise recommendations on raising and maintaining the quality of universal services achieved by postal operators at more acceptable prices and for all users. In Article 31. The law stipulates that a postal operator is required to transfer postal consignments from the universal service domains and hand-offs to recipients in accordance with quality standards, within periods of no longer than two working days in a narrow delivery area in the postal network units, four working days in the wider delivery area of the unit of the delivery network, seven working days in the widest delivery area of the unit of the postal network. The PUPS parliamentary group points out that there are major problems regarding these deadlines, and independent of them. It is almost a regular phenomenon that the shipments do not reach the recipient within the scheduled deadlines, even a few days late or not delivered at all. Intervention fees become irrelevant because, for example, because of the delay in the shipment, they do not arrive to carry out important tasks or other scheduled duties. We think it's a good thing it's in Article 29. The law regulates the prohibition, i.e. the reception, transfer and delivery of postal shipments containing dangerous and harmful substances, as well as items whose transmission threatens human health and life, intoxicated drugs, live animals, other than animals whose transfer is specified under specific conditions for the provision of postal services, other goods and articles which are prohibited by law and other regulations. It is also important, in the opinion of the PUPS parliamentary group, that this law regulates that a public postal operator cannot use revenues from reserved postal services, which are those services guaranteed by the State to a postal operator of a universal postal service, as exclusive rights within the framework of a certain limit at mass and price, for subsidising postal services that are not universal service but an additional value service. This is in line with the second EU postal directive, which provides that cross-subsidisation of universal services outside the reserved sector of income from services reserved to the sector is prohibited. Articles 21 and 66. The law regulates that the postal service agency determines tariff positions for the universal postal service. However, the question arises whether it is a better alternative for tariffs or postage for all other postal services not included in the reserved service domain, but for commercial services, to be selected by postal service operators themselves? Finally, it is necessary to assess the effects of the adoption of this law. It is projected to increase employment in the postal services sector due to an increase in the number of postal operators and market development. The introduction of competition based on the proposed solutions should improve the quality of the provision of postal services to citizens of Serbia and businesses. It is assumed that competition itself will seek to reduce service prices, which in our opinion is unlikely. The obligation of the State to impose an obligation on the public postal operator to ensure the acceptable availability of the universal service postal network and to make private postal operators available with their networks to raise the postal service to a higher level. The PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the adoption of this law on the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38766	Seven minutes and fifty seconds used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38767	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, at this point in the agenda, I will look mainly at the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services. Since we do not have the best experience of applying the Law on Postage Services since its adoption in 2005, and even more fully non-application of some of its significant provisions, its amendments and additions are imposed as necessary. The fact that amendments and additions to the Law on Postal Services entered the assembly procedure in 2008, and some public debate, as far as the professional public was concerned, took place in 2007, far away as many European regulations were changing, is imposed as a basis for doubt as to the freshness of the solutions offered. Not fearing the above, the SPS-JS parliamentary group wants to support the ministry's insistence to advance individual decisions of the basic law and make them comparable to European legislation, and in this sense will support the text of amendments and additions to the law. We would also like to point out that our reserves regarding the application of this amended postal service law are still very large, so we ask the Ministry to take our support for the proposed amendments and additions to this law as a simultaneous requirement for urgent access to a completely new law. In the absence of technical details and details, we would like, as the shortest possible explanation of the proposed urgency of the adoption of a completely new law, to highlight several significant problems that the proposed changes and additions or do not treat at all or do, in our opinion, in an inadequate way. The usurpation of reserved service by unauthorized postal operators, which in Novi Sad and Belgrade takes on epidemic conditions and thus, in addition to direct damage to the public postal operator. The public enterprise of PTT Serbia, equally damages the budget of the Republic of Serbia and, if something more serious is not done in the next period and does not take action to prevent this phenomenon, will eventually have to cover the cost of the budget's mail, which it has as a law a designated universal postal service provider in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, it is clear that postal operators performing these illicit business activities are a school example of unfair competition to other postal operators who carry out their commercial activities in accordance with the law, and this cannot in any way be stimulating to develop competitiveness in the postal service market, and this must be the basis of our economic policy on each and every market. Out of the openness of this phenomenon, it is obvious that the basic law does not have adequate legal mechanisms, nor the necessary legal precision, which is not specified by these amendments and additions to the law, because the fine of 20,000 dinars for someone who violates the law is considered insufficient. Of course, neither does the legal precision necessary to prevent this unfair business practice, unfortunately, seems to us, as I have already said, to specify neither the amendments nor the additions of this law. For example, we have learned that the Post Office expresses great concern about the reduction of the mass limit and the price provided for in Article 8 of the proposed amendments and additions, and this in terms of its future ability to service the universal postal service in a quality manner. What does higher or lower limits mean in the case of postal operators that break them uninterruptedly into the two largest business malls in the Republic. I have to say there's a certain company called City Mail, owned by a certain Gordan Bajic, and we have, from our closest association, an example of how they destroyed a public company, that is. The post office of a country in the environment and when the post office came to ruin, then the state and government tried in a way to protect the post office. If you have a case that this firm is working almost uninterrupted despite the ban on work, despite the increased inspection of supervision, and I must say that it is unfortunate that we have one inspector, who cannot cover the whole of the Republic, despite the fines being imposed, he continues to provide postal services from the domain reserved in the area of Novi Sad and Belgrade. In this regard, we appeal that Article 19 of the Basic Law is complemented by the following framework: postal services are not considered reserved, only on condition that the postage is higher than fivefold, i.e. the three-time postal service amount for the written consignment of the first mass and the fastest degree of transmission. This would be an assessment of the disabling of the different interpretations of Article 3 paragraph 1 of the Basic Law. It would not be bad for criminal provisions to also sanction legal entities, which engage an unauthorized postal operator in the provision of reserved postal services. The sanction here would mean a prior warning, and then a certain legal fact. Of course, this would be significantly cheaper than the price determined by the Government and which is a compensation with a public postal operator for the universal postal services provided. Let me explain, if a public postal operator has to do the most stupid work in this country to perform his service, and that doesn't oblige someone, of course he's competitive. unfairly competitive on the market. In order not to present comparative prices here for each other, I must say that they are also not the clearest reasons for extending the jurisdiction of the Ministry, which is provided for in Article 16 of the proposed amendments and additions to this Act. I say this in particular, since since this year, the Republic Postage Service Agency, as a regulatory body, has been operating on which the formation for hard-explained reasons has been waiting here for five years, when it was established by the basic Law on Postage Services. So, we have the Agency, we have the current restrictive policy with regard to personnel and at all the size of the state apparatus, we have the general tendency of European and our legislation for as little interference of the state apparatus in economic activity as possible, so we see the additional obligations of the Ministry as unnecessary and anachrons. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, strictly technological details that could also be discussed for a long time, we leave it to a team that will, hopefully, prepare the text of a new law. It is important to insist – that all interested factors must be involved in the creation of a future law, and that we think, in addition to the Ministry and the Republic Postage Services Agency, and on the reference scientific institutions, the Public Postal Operator and the Association of Private Postal Operators, etc. The MP SPS-JS will vote for one such law without any dilemma, which unfortunately we have in favour of the proposed changes and additions. In the end, I would like to point out that the SPS-JS simply supports the fear of the Union and the worker of PTT Serbia. If we have 15,000 workers, and by one law and knowing the unfairness of competition, which some provisions and sanctioning cannot forbid, then it is justified to have their fear, because by destroying such a system of 15,000 workers – we generally as Government can only have a problem. So, once again, I ask that, when it comes to Articles 8, 11 and 31, I am now not explaining it, because we will have the opportunity, when we talk in particular, to pay attention and at this point, to get out in the best possible way, to be of interest to the Public Post Office and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, if you need me, I'll get involved in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38768	Since the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, 11 minutes have been used. He has the word of Minister Jasna Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38769	I would like to thank the MPs who have clearly carefully studied the bill. Since we have heard even two different statements, let me clarify something contained in the bill itself, as well as what happened on the postal service regulation market. Both MPs were absolutely right when they claimed that the regulatory body, which was established by law in 2005, had long not begun working and this goes to the heart of previous ministers and previous governments. As of spring 2009, the government proposed to the National Assembly of the Agency's Council and the Assembly voted on 26 October. The agency was established on 12 November 2009 and started work on 1 February this year. Now we have a complete institutional framework that allows the postal market to function in a manner prescribed by law, which was not the case before. The sanctioning of illegal behaviour, for reasons of lack of institutional framework, was also very present, I agree with MPs, but what is now our situation, is that we have an institutional framework that needs to be done and that these amendments to the Law and the legal framework will be appropriate. What is mentioned in the Law as an opportunity to assume the authority of the Agency was contained in the draft law, which was formed before the establishment of the Agency itself and is now amended, that it will not be adopted. I'd also like to say that the law is fully in line with CTU. Our priority, in any case, is that MailSerbs, like a large system, or system that has the largest number of exposures in the country, are successful and continue to work. It's a system we rely on not only for postal services but also for other priorities in the state. We even hope to be able to use it in digitalising television for certain activities, but it is necessary that there is sound competition in segments where otherwise possible and envisaged. I would support a colleague who spoke – that the number of inspectors involved in inspection control is insufficient, but it is unfortunately due to the limited number of employees our administration has. We've made sure that the maximum number of inspectors, three inspectors, cover all of Serbia, which is certainly not enough. In cooperation with the Agency, we hope that respect for the law will now be strengthened. We, along with other ministries, had several actions last year that led to a far higher level of respect for the law than it was before. Now we no longer have that situation, that even municipal administrations illegally distribute their accounts and their materials. Now it has been returned to the postal public operator and this action will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38770	There's a word from MP Zeljko Ivanji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38771	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is important to say, I need to underline, is that this authority of the Ministry which was established during this transitional period ceases and that I have submitted an amendment to which this jurisdiction is returned to the Agency. Why was that jurisdiction in the Ministry? Because we had, I can say, that vacuum and the time teat in terms of the agency's election and formation of the council, as well as the time lag in terms of changes and additions to the laws that have long been in the process. It was, I can say, our deficit, the deficit of this assembly, because this parliament has to react much more promptly to laws that are extremely important to certain segments of the economy. The post office is certainly one of the most important institutions. I say the institution on purpose, because in addition to the importance that it has in a formal and legal sense as an economic society, it also has a social character. She has her own mission to be with the citizens, as a service that must be, at least this applies to a public postal operator, provided to everyone and everywhere, regardless of cost-effectiveness for a public postal operator. This is the fact that the Post Office of Serbia lives with, but the post office is not only a public postal operator, other companies that will fight in the market together with the post office. The postal service agency has finally been established. We chose her advice as an independent body, which will also issue licences for other postal operators. Competition must certainly be desirable for mail and must be welcome for mail because you can only position yourself in an open market. You can measure your strength on the open market. That is why it is in both the state and the agency to ensure a level playing field in the market and therefore competitiveness is important. It is a motive to actually win that market and it must also be a motive for a public postal operator, and for the end-user it must be a benefit and a choice for him. In this way, the user will identify himself. It will certainly be the one who is more quality, who provides a service for a better price, who provides better services, who provides more services and who provides united services. Competitiveness is also a key word in the EU, which gives competition and competitiveness a priority. The state offers these changes and additions, in addition to the competitiveness that represents a good thing for a public postal operator, the possibility that for those services that mail must provide, because it is also a state service on any part of the territory, so the state will be able to provide a fund to refund those costs, but of course mail must take one step further and separate the costs it has in the reserved and universal service. It's important for the state to recognize what actual costs are. These amendments and additions are in line with most of the EU directives, which must be recognised, through its history, have also been thoughtful in reducing the limit per mass and price for reserved services belonging to a public postal operator, because in the EU they are also aware of all the difficulties facing public postal operators, especially in EU-access countries. However, we also have some limitations on the past, or the post office has these limitations that have been imposed on it in the past. One of those restrictions was, as we all know, Mobtel. One project that was the idea of getting money from someone who needed to deliver letters and packages, not how to improve the service to make it competitive. The post that was owned by Telekom Srbija, therefore, competition to itself, given the ownership ratio. The project was created in 1995 and ended in 2005. Because it was someone who sued Mobtel, or those who ran Mobtel and who owned it for a $600 million damage. What's important is that we don't have any charges against any of these people until today. So five years after the case is over and the criminal charges are filed, we don't have people on the defendant's bench today, even though the art was over a year ago. It's a deficit from our prosecutor's office, and I'm always ready to talk about it openly. The 1997 Telekom Sr. limit of the past is also the 1997 Telekom Sr. case, with which sales are completely unjustly parallel to the future sale of Telekom. Serbia was then a black hole in which investors were coming to quickly extract their profits, and that was the point of the genius business, whose sale allowed Telekom's sale allowed the charging of a pension fund that had been robbed and life for another three years until 2000. Certainly, the future of mail is in arrangements between public and private, but only in the domain of basic services and services that are in the function of basic activity. From e-signature to the introduction of a mail counter into the function of issuing personal documents. So on the counters, citizens will be able to raise their personal documents in their neighborhood. It's one of the models so the mail can work in the future. However, it is not only citizens who should be at the centre of the public postal operator's attention. At the centre of the attention of the state and the public postal operator must be employees of the mail, who certainly work under very difficult conditions. Shalter workers, as well as postal service providers, our mailmen deserve the status of civil servants, officials, because that status would pose a threat to criminals who rob mail or attack mailmen. The attack on them would also be an attack on the state, and it must be regulated by some other laws and in the jurisdiction of some other ministries. Also, the state must protect its own inspectors who are doing very hard work on the ground and who are exposed, it can be said freely, by the threats of some postal cooperatives, not postal operators, but by competition that is not, which can be precisely because of someone's deficit, freely I can say, illegally to operate or to transport something that poses a threat to the safety of citizens. That is why ministers and inspectors should be helped in their work. The postal service agency has its independence and its work will be assessed by citizens who will actually assess the quality of the services provided by these postal operators who will operate according to the issued licence and will thus be particularly able to assess the work of the agency itself, whether it was the administration that issued the licence or not. What is important, unlike other agencies, the Post Office has secured working conditions and, as I said, the amendments that I have submitted and which have been accepted by the Government on the 2008 Bill proposal return full jurisdiction according to the basic law because, freely speaking, we have managed to unblock and supplement these amendments to the law, as well as the selection of members of the Agency's council. Certainly considering all of this, the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group will certainly support these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38772	Nine minutes and 50 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group were used. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services presents, as the Proposer stated in the explanation, and that is what we in the SRS very often point out, and that is that legal solutions, however formulated, do not experience their application in practice. The current Postage Services Act, which the Republic's parliament passed just over five years ago, more specifically on 5 March 2005, needs to be amended, as it stands, because some of the basic ideas contained in such a legal project have not been realised. One of them is, as you yourself have stated, the formation of this advice of the Republic Postage Services Agency, but then it is a little irresponsible and irresponsible to ask for support for such a bill from opposition groups, because we believe that, above all, responsibility should also be established for those who have caused us to find ourselves in such a situation as we are full of five years and all of this reflects on the quality functioning of this postal service market. This is particularly important, especially in view of the fact that JP PTT Serbia's traffic is a single technical and economic and business system and by the nature of things should be a powerful engine of industrial development, a significant source of national income, budget revenues, which it has, among other things, with the largest internet network in Serbia. Then it is quite logical to expect that the legal solutions that cover such an area, in fact, are in this sense designed to enable further development policy that would result in a more efficient and efficient business in the postal service market. However, even though we have the opportunity in public to meet some kind of, let me say, and praises about how this public enterprise works, what results and profits it achieves, you will agree that in practice it is not, or that there is certainly opportunities and capacity for the results to be significantly better. This is because it is well known that there is one postal traffic development strategy that ultimately envisioned the elimination of PTT's "Serbia" monopoly, because although the market for these postal services does not seem extremely attractive and growing work at first sight, this sector is of paramount importance to the economy of the Republic of Serbia, as some data suggest that it generates almost 2% of total GDP and employs around 0.5% of all employees. According to estimates that the public could also get acquainted with these days when the story started, the postal services market in Serbia is worth about 100m euros. So, the postal sector, I would also say these courier services, have a considerable impact on the market for telecommunications, advertising and transport, in this positive correlation between growth and the development of the postal and courier services market, which directly or indirectly affect the growth and development of all three of these markets. If one analysis of the movement of postal services on the market of the Republic of Serbia, with adequate legal solutions, were made, we could hear that even representatives of the ruling parties are not fully satisfied with what is presented to us today for consideration, i.e. the necessity, it seems that we also face a new postal service law within a very short period of time. Therefore, all of this indicates that one significant change in the structure is present on the postal services market and that all of this must be accompanied by adequate things. So, on the one hand, it is inevitable that e-mail replaces the growing number of accounts and reports sent by telecommunications and financial institutions, as well as most personal and business communications and, on the other hand, by increasing so-called. B2C interaction through various programmes, catalogical purchase, increase of direct marketing activity and companies is only a running wheel, i.e. one additional volume of postal services. For the sake of truth, certain segments have developed significantly in terms of specialized solutions for different clients, in terms of security and accuracy of services, mergers with other media, etc. Upstream activities, as well as further development of direct mail. However, market growth is in this context encouraged by the offer. This value chain of postal services was decommissioned and expanded into related activities, such as the preparation of senders, the design of the content of the senders, the printing and their conversion, and these and some other new services were meant to create a favourable business environment of additional demand. However, co-workers and fellow MPs, as world practice shows, and this should ultimately show practice on the Serbian market, the biggest driver of innovation on the market is just the new postal operators. I'm going to do a little digression because, as far as traditions go, 144 years ago, in fact, the first brand with the coat of arms of the Principality of Serbia was released on 1 May 1866, while two months later, the first regular postmark with the character of Prince Mikhail Obrenovic appeared. Today, continuing some liberalisation of postal services on the Serbian market would certainly affect such a practice more than the development of technology and other factors. And this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services, for which, as I mentioned earlier, one reason is that it is due to compliance with EU legislation directives, but it cannot, when already stated, ignore certain facts, which is that postal services are already rather liberalised in these EU countries, based on the two postal directives of 1997 and 2002. Then, among other things, the concept of the so-called concept was abolished. the reserved area, and the complete job should be completed during the following year, when private operators would be allowed to deliver letters to clients less than 50 grams, etc. It is estimated to be an optimal time limit for creating a stable regulatory framework, which will ensure delivery of postal shipments on the territory of all countries, with acceptable prices, which is, after all, one of the most important postulates. As regards the already mentioned postal traffic development strategy in the Republic of Serbia by the end of 2010, it is clear that the strategy should determine the speed in relation to the achievement of all the preconditions imposed in this respect and therefore the opening of the Serbian postal market is necessary to adapt to the world market conditions, making it possible for new postal operators to offer proposals that will either replace the existing product range or create, possibly, a new demand. The elimination of the monopoly would increase the quality of services, lower prices and, perhaps most importantly, boost the development of not only the postal sector, but also other related sectors, particularly financial and telecommunications sectors. A larger volume of existing, but also new services would certainly allow higher tax revenues which, you will admit, in the situation in which we are as a state, would also have great significance. In order to achieve some of the positive effects mentioned above and to ensure a healthy opening of the market, which will not cause market disturbances or reorganisation in terms of exclusively firing employees, in particular in this domain of universal postal services at some acceptable and equal price in the whole Serbian state, we in the SRS consider it necessary and one appropriate form of transformation of this public operator, so Post, Markets and all other players on the postal service market. One of the most important, if not the first precondition of implementation, so-called The third postal directive in Serbia is the restructuring of a public operator, which should result in the introduction of effective corporate governance principles with effective control. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure access to the financial resources needed for this process, which would all together create conditions for the universal service provider's obligations in the future and create the very space for the maneuver needed to succeed in an attractive and competitive market. Of course, the next important step when it comes to this area is to create a stable regulatory framework that would ensure delivery of purchases throughout the country. Whether establishing the role and administrative capacity of the regulatory body will protect the free market, a competition that, with the strengthening of the rule of law, would allow sanctioning those who do not comply with the rules, we will probably know within a few months based on practical parameters in the time ahead and the situation we are likely to face, which is the proposal and adoption, i.e. the adoption of a new postal service law in Serbia. Since the previous speaker mentioned the topic, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity, since Mrs Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society here today, I would like the public and we MPs to get an explanation regarding the sale of these 40% Telecom actions, which for the preconditions has the denial of PTT Serbia 80% of ownership of Telecom in favour of the state. So, was it not necessary first to determine the exact percentage of actions belonging to employees and former employees in PTT Serbia and Telecom, and certainly the exact amount of actions belonging to citizens based on free actions? Even this announcement that the money from the sale of Telecom shares will be spent on infrastructure is not defined, so for example, these funds could be used tomorrow to finance the installation of a optical cable along the railway line, as PTT Serbia plans to do. It also raises the question why now sell Telecom and a majority package in infrastructure that could be singled out, so that tomorrow the state is conditional on the highway in telecommunications to apply for use and charges to all users, including the new majority owner of Telecom, which is also important for Telenor, who recently obtained a license for another fixed telephony operator. Of course, there are still many unregulated, unresolved issues, such as property ownership issues, it is known that Telekom and PTT are located in joint facilities throughout Serbia, and the money has been invested by PTT and local self-government, that is, what was once called the socio-political community. So, as far as we are concerned in the SRS, this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services does not bring a more fundamental quality solution to the existing situation in the area of postal services in the Serbian market, because we believe that as a prerequisite for regulation of the situation, some of these notes that I made during my discussion, and more specifically, even later on, the other SRS MPs will also talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38774	14 minutes have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38775	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected Madam Minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission, as regards the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Postal Services, as the debate is in principle, on behalf of the NS Parliament Club and I have several questions for Madam Minister. If memory doesn't cheat on me and I'm well informed, and I think so, this law came into practice on September 28th 2009. The question immediately arises why has he not been in the process until now if there are amendments and additions here that I could personally agree with? So I ask the question why does it take more than half a year for him to come to the agenda? Of course, any MP would not miss such a chance, or the presence of the Minister, if he did not ask her what I think is in the interest of millions of Serbian citizens, and I think that through the media and ignoring of the country's most responsible people and factors he is trying to bury and hide from Serbian citizens. So, PTT Serbia owns 40% of Telecom. Why, Madam Minister, is a letter of the most professional and wisest people in this country, such as the Belgrade University Rector, such as the Dean of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade, ignored? Why don't we have a public debate, and not just one show where almost all of them are like-minded, you know what show I mean, you've recently participated in that show. Why are you at the public service, so-called. The European service does not organise a public debate for you to come up with your arguments, and the rector and these professional people I really trust as a citizen of Serbia do not face arguments and then we all conclude together whether the sale of Telecom is justified at the moment? Until that happens, and so the public service at least takes off one 48 Hour wedding show, one term just to prove that the European service is not a yellow service. Until that happens, I have a few questions for you. What experts, named and last name and reference, participated in a study on the eligibility of sales of Telecom? Two, what are the results of the analysis of the sales of relevant companies in neighbouring countries from the point of view of changes in the volume of investment, quality and price of services, employment, the development of the accompanying telecommunications industry? Under three, due to its strategic importance, the dominant telecommunications operators are state-owned in many countries, Luxembourg, Belgium, Finland, Sweden, Norway, Italy, Slovenia, Switzerland etc. What reason does the Serbian government have to behave differently from capitalist countries with the best telecommunications systems? What are the reasons for the multiple increase in the subscription without reason when it is obvious that by selling the dominant operator, money will be poured directly to the foreign buyer from the pockets of citizens, state administration, companies and institutions of public importance? It hasn't been a year since the last increase in that phone subscription seemed 63% to me, Madam Minister, is now 100%. Then I said a little freely – well, you didn't punish us, the MPs, who we have for our opportunities very solid wages, so we don't care if the phone bill is a thousand or a thousand and 500 dinars, you've punished the biggest poor woman, who now has to pay 458 dinars whether or not she talks. Next question, how much is expected to reduce the number of employees in Telecom Serbia, PTT Serbia and the telecommunications industry? How does the state plan to deprive that part of the Telecom user, who spent decades back investing in the security of technical conditions for a telephone connection? I'm free to tell you, Madam Minister, that I am one of those citizens, too. So, all these telephone pillars, cables, all of them were funded by the citizens. How do you think you're going to make up for those funds, get back to them because you practically own them, their sweat and the hard work they've put in now you're selling it to them like we don't know who. Well, the whole of Serbia knows it will be Deutsche Telekom, because it is a function of saving this government, because there is no money, and there is no money because good economic policy is not being conducted. How does the state intend to ensure the development of telecommunications and telecommunications industry as a future industry after it alienates telecommunications infrastructure, national resource of invaluable value, and a telecommunications market covering almost all citizens of Serbia, businesses, state administration, military, police, public-important institutes? How does the state plan to prevent the value of small shareholders' actions, so citizens, employees and former employees, if the purchase takes place by Deutsche Telekom and thus becomes completely uninterested in buying them? Since I will speak for just ten minutes and not to be reminded by Madam Chairman, not to run out of time, I have asked Mrs. Minister, and this is asked by Dr. Aleksandra Smiljanić, the previous Minister of Telecommunications, Dr. Vera Vratusa, Professor of Belgrade University, Dr. Nebojsa Popov, Scientific Advisor, Dr. Branko Kovacevic, Professor of Belgrade University, Dr. Borisvoje Lazic, Professor of Belgrade University, Dr. Miodrag Popović, Professor of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Dr. Vladimir Milačić, Professor of Belgrade University, Prof. Dr. Daniel Cvetićan, Professor of Singidunum and Slavoljub Kačarević, Chief Editor of the "Balkan" magazine, from where I am from that site and downloaded. Therefore, I see that the chairman is ready to remind me that I am not on the subject, my basis for this discussion is that the Post Office of Serbia, PTT, as the people say, owns 40%...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38776	People's MP, I ask you to respect Article 3 together and discuss the subject of the agenda. The subject of the agenda is the first Law on postal services. PTT has been different from Telekom for 14 years. I would ask you not to abuse the fact that we have a common principle and a single search and to talk about the subject of the agenda, and the subject is the law and the convention on which we are all obliged to pay attention. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38777	Madam Chairman, this is what you warned me about, is it going into time, or are you adding it to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38778	National MP, the time that the chairman uses on the basis of parliamentary obligations to warn and to take care of the agenda is the time for the chairman. The time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group or the president of the parliamentary group is 20 minutes. With insight into the stenograms, you can see that every president or authorised representative, whether he was warned by the chairman or not, had at least 30 seconds to complete his thoughts, that the exposure would be meaningful.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38779	Thank you, you've made yourself very clear, Madam Chairman. Madam President and Madam Minister, we from New Serbia when we criticise or propose some amendments to various laws are not prone to the above-mentioned rules, the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. We think of people, how these laws will apply to people, to life, because in this congregation, how people live, that's the subject under s, they'll never come during this ruling coalition on the agenda. When we explain our amendments, when we interpret the laws, we criticize, we primarily think about people. At this point we're thinking of people who are employed, Madam Minister, in PTT. I'm asking if these people are gonna be fired. We've been since 2000. years, when I say, I, too, participated in law-making for a few years, and I voted, I passed the embraces of wonderful, excellent laws, but in practice they do not live. People don't benefit from them, only harm. That's why I'm asking. I thought, Madam Chairman, that in the principle debate we could also touch the lives of ordinary people that these laws would cost some jobs. If you don't like it, I'm interrupting the discussion right now. Thank you very much. Vita dishes, green pine, waiting for a quick reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38780	Seven minutes have been spent using the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? If he wants to, please sign up. No, I don't. ) In that case, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty, they are in accordance with Article 4(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search for a word in writing, and with the order of the MPs, submitted parliamentary groups:LDP, New Serbia, ZES and SRS, and we move to the course of the session with discussions on the order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform review of the drafts of the law referred to in points 18 and 80 to 83 of the agenda. The People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic has a word, and after him the People's Messenger Pavel Marchok.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38781	I think it is illusory for me to use this time and discuss before I get it, and it seems to me more Serbian citizens, the answer to the question I asked. I repeat, we can pass laws and the best, both European and most European laws, if there is no benefit from these laws, these laws apply to some employees, especially in PTT Serbia and Serbian citizens, if there is no answer here as to why a telephone subscription is increased, why is 82m euros honored by someone who will just buy Telekom, where is the owner of PTT 45%, and if it does not respond to the citizens, then it is illusory to talk about amendments, members of the law, if it hides from Serbian citizens. I don't see why. The government and the minister probably have good arguments. Get on TV. This is not the MP Markicevic here asking these questions, the Belgrade University Rector, Madam Minister, the Dean of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering. If you can and as you do through your media, your yellow service, to demean New Serbia's MPs, do not demean the citizens of Serbia. I volunteered to be an MP and to suffer and insults, and I will continue to do so because the citizens of Serbia have sent me here to ask, apparently for you, awkward questions. Do not ignore the citizens of Serbia, even those who voted for you. And they're paying the phone bill twice without anyone getting an explanation, an explanation of why it's increased, until you answer these questions, we have nothing else to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38782	The People's Messenger Zoran Ostojić has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Pavel Marchok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38783	Dear Vice Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us one of the laws that strengthens or should strengthen the country's infrastructure. However, you know that my parliamentary group insists on abolishing the monopoly in this country, and this is going quite slowly. Will these legal changes strengthen competition and will these legal changes strengthen infrastructure, because, how can I say, in this country, the letter will reach Priboj rather than the man by rail, and that does not mean that the post office is fast, but that the railway is slow? What awaits us is compliance with European norms and standards. What cannot solve European norms and standards is competition and capital investment in this important infrastructure activity, such as Post and Telecommunications. I don't know, Mrs. Matic, do you know that, say, there are 17 villages in the municipality of Arangelovac, at nine, more than half, no mail. Serbia, when it comes to what is called infrastructure, roads, traffic, railways, is indeed at a level at which it should not be a country that has submitted its bid for EU membership. I think only Albania has a slower Internet than Serbia. These are all problems that cannot be solved by these amendments to the law. These problems can only be solved by the initiative of people, by investing capital, by developing infrastructure, and this is impossible without legal regulations and norms that will allow competition to improve. And look at that last fixed-line tender. People in the Arab villages get some wireless phones in exchange for a failed fixed-line network, but they don't work either. Public enterprises and in this case show that they are unable to invest, are unable to develop infrastructure. That's why we insist on privatisation. When it comes to privatisation, say, Telekom, there are a number of issues that my colleague Slobodan Maras will discuss more. But when it comes to infrastructure development, postal infrastructure, I'm afraid I'm just gonna crack the alignment, as you say, with European norms, we're not gonna get a single-state postal infrastructure that's a candidate candidate, and next year, I hope, a candidate for full EU membership. We simply need a change in philosophy, mentality, a complete change in this party monopoly over public enterprises. We can talk as much as we want about professional knowledge and experience management, it won't be until foreign capital and private capital enters. Only then will party interests, party people, in fact, be left without that golden coke called poor enterprises. I really think it takes a lot more legal solutions to open up a space for investment in infrastructure. When we talk about mail, we can agree, when you go into Serbia, that our postal service is at a level of 20 and a few years ago. The postal service and postal infrastructure followed or shared the fate of the entire country. So everything that happened to us back in the 20s or 25s, it happened to the mail. There was no investment. You know the state of our landline. If half the village has no mail in the Arangelovo municipality, it would be some kind of rapper or average, perhaps even worse at Serbia's level. All this brings us to the fact that monopolies and party management of public enterprises cannot make a difference to this country. We're sure that in the next period, with something coming from the government as some kind of signal about changing the economic structure, that it needs to change. We'll see if you can track the words and the actions. You know, when President Cvetkovic says that economic growth requires a change in the economic structure. It's about as if in the middle of the drought a peasant said he needed it to rain. That's, how do I say, the elemental thing. But how so? That's another question. I am afraid that this bill, which in one part, is to adapt to these European norms, and in the other part, a weak attempt to open up room for competition in this area, will not contribute to what the LDP is insisting on and on what LDP is talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38784	Six minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Ambassador Pavel Marchok. National MP Mirko Munjic in that case. After him, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on 4 March 2005, the Law on Postal Services entered into force. In a few days, it's been six months since the entry into force of this law, so we'd like to welcome today someone to say that its application is in practice considerably difficult. Madam Minister, the same story that the SRS tells and always points out when it comes to the bill that you are submitting to this Assembly, which is that the laws are only passed for the sake of their adoption. Very little care is taken about the application of these laws, whether these laws will be in practice at all, whether at least some of the provisions of these laws will be applicable. Why laws if they cannot be applied in practice or if only some of their provisions cannot be applied in practice? I have the impression that it's very often rushing and chasing after law-making, as if someone is chasing someone to pass certain laws, and after five years someone comes and says that the law is difficult to apply or that some of its provisions are in practice absolutely not applied. I think here it's for nothing to run fast, which you try to run fast when you run in the opposite direction. It's a shame that you're trying to pass these laws so quickly just for the sake of statistics, if they're in practice, absolutely not applied, or are very difficult, as you say, to apply. Let's go for a little reason to pass the law. These are, according to the proposal, the accelerated development of postal traffic, under two – compliance with the EU's positive legislation and under three – advice, in a way, inspectors, inspection bodies and postal service experts, who say it is necessary and inevitable to pass this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Postage Services. If we go into one just a little more detailed and comprehensive analysis of what you said in terms of passing this law, we'll see the next. First, I agree that there is a rapid development of postal traffic. Chuck, I can tell you, Madam Minister, that my position on this accelerated development may be a little bit more radical than the attitude you've put forward as the legislator of the law in these reasons for passing the law. I think in some mail, mailmen move faster than letters. Of course, this postman is clear that I'm using it in an extremely portable sense. It's not those old, good mailmen we all know and who do their job honestly and honestly, it's some others. Whoever understands will understand. The central reason for the adoption of this amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services, I would say that, in fact, this second one - is to comply with the EU's positive legislation. This, in my opinion, is probably nothing caused by reason. The question is, is anyone out there looking for it or, is what you're doing someone asking to do so quickly, so speedy? Is the adoption of this law necessary at the speed of an express train, where you absolutely do not stop at any station, where you only bring as many legal regulations as possible, and will they be applicable? Is the goal of what you're trying to do and to show, the speed and number of laws and legal projects, instead of quality and applicability? The next reason for the adoption of the law is the advice of inspection bodies and postal service experts. I really appreciate the advice of the inspection bodies, although you said, I think there are only three inspectors in this area. Unfortunately, as you say, they are gone and they are very hard to cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Again, find the culprit and for that. Is this reason a little late? It's still been 60 months. After all, five years have passed since the basic Law on Postage Services entered into force, should they have told you before? Or maybe they said it before, but someone wouldn't listen to them. If we go further into the analysis of this legislative project, i.e. the proposal for this law, the Agency shall be established as an independent and regulatory body. Among other things, this agency is also entrusted with the adoption of certain sublaws. The SRS is absolutely opposed, opposed and will always oppose the establishment of new and new agencies. We think all of this, therefore, is that the establishment of these agencies is too high, unnecessary, enormous, that setting up these new agencies just increases costs. However, as so far and so far, we can see that by the solutions to our amendments, our appeals and objections are in vain when it comes to the establishment of these agencies and other bodies. So why? You realize your agency isn't working. Why isn't the agency working, Madam Minister? You're saying there's no agency advice. Excuse me, what's the agency's advice? What's your agency's advice? It's not the Constitutional Court, so it was so hard to set up the agency's advice. And then you realize for yourself that that's why there's been a lot of operators, as you say, who are doing the job unauthorizedly. Look, the question is, Madam Minister, how many such operators are there? How many unauthorized operators are doing these postal jobs? How much traffic has it been, Madam Minister, these operators who have been unauthorized in these last five years for the last 60 months? What's the damage, and is there any damage to their unauthorized performance, as you say? Who's responsible for this damage? Are there any people in charge? Are there any sanctions for the damage they caused? These are the questions you should still give us answers to. Many provisions, therefore, many solutions seem to have been better in the basic law than in the proposal for this law to amend and supplement the Law on postal services. For example, Article 1 complemented Article 3 paragraph 1 point 5, and that is the term "consignment" of the consignment. The question arises, Madam Minister, is it appropriate in the text of the law to enter foreign words and terms? Is there an adequate term for this and in Serbian? For example, I can have freedom as a folk MP to do the work of the ministry, I don't have to tell yours, but certain ministries, I define it as reminding me, let me use it, too, on some dark side of the moon, on some dark side of the moon, so you know what's going on there. You can see how it's a little bit inappropriate to say that in this situation, but as a MP, I can have such an observation. But in the bill of law to use foreign words, I think it's inappropriate. There are very adequate and plastic words in Serbian that can determine all of this. So, you're bringing in foreign words. It's not even modernism anymore, it's more of a kind of courtship that, I'd say again, is absolutely nothing caused. Article 2 The draft law amending Article 6 of the basic law is amended by providing that postal operators are obliged to act in accordance with their specific conditions in the performance of postal services, providing for the non-violence of postal mail and the confidentiality of data. I ask the question, Madam Minister – what is behind this term of "their special jobs"? In what way do I ask the question, postal operators determine their specific conditions? How do individual operators in their special conditions anticipate and ensure this inviolability and secrecy, the protection of the confidentiality of data? Can they do so according to their own intentions, do they do so according to their own interests and according to their needs or to certain standards prescribed, or at least according to some good business practices? So, to make it all postal operators uniform. What exactly is it? If each operator provides inviolability and secrecy to its own personal opinion, and you said that there are many and that many operate according to this law, not applying the provisions of the law or very little by applying the provisions of this basic law, then the question arises – will adequate protection and the secrecy of the consignors by these operators be provided? Then who can be directly damaged? Are they citizens, states or maybe citizens and states, and just for someone's own benefit? Furthermore, I'd like to look back on Article 34 a little more. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services, which states that until the day of the establishment of the Council of the Agency, the tasks referred to in Article 66(1), (2), (3), (4), 11) and 12) shall be carried out by the Ministry. What is the ministry supposed to do here? First, to bring general terms and conditions and follow their application, to establish limits per mass and price for reserved postal services, then to determine the duration of the provision of reserved postal services, as well as to give consent to special conditions for the provision of postal services, and in point 11) it shall also determine tariff positions for the universal postal service and approve, in point 12), postal operators the issue of regular postal marks and securities. So these are the jobs that the ministry is supposed to do. So again the question – what about the Agency's Council? What about the jobs the Agency's supposed to do? Who and why has been prolonging the establishment of this counsel for so long? Then we come to what we always potential – then what is the agency, when all this, even more, can be done by the Ministry? Instead of the agency, all these jobs you've listed at these points of this member may be carried out by the Ministry. Furthermore, Madam Minister, a member of the 35th asks those operators, I deliberately say and use the word asking, again in a conditional sense, which, until now, in 60 months, did not, therefore, comply with their regulations with the Post Office Act, with the 2005 Law, that, if they can do so in three months. Look, they couldn't comply with their regulations with the Postal Service Act in 60 months, so, in five years, you're now asking them to do the same thing in just three months. Indeed, Madam Minister, I still think that here, as in many other places, the folk is confirming that although it seems a little absurd, what can't be great seems to be entering the door. You prove it everywhere and in every place and every opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38786	Fourteen minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Slobodan Maraš.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38787	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, through a debate on postal traffic, postal services and this law we are discussing today, on postal services, with a proposal to adopt it under Rule 161 of our Rules of Procedure today, we have a few interesting things that we hear during this debate. There are a few questions open, so here's the answer to those questions. We have heard the first question – how do we ever pass laws in the Republic of Serbia, and do we bring this postal traffic law and postal services to someone's request, because of some ultimatum, because of some desire, and do we really get someone in the world, in some Brussels, New York, Berlin, Rome, today, to be with only one thought – what am I going to do today to those Serbs and who today will not be able to make a condition for them, or perhaps someone in Krusevec, Chačka, Arangelovac, who is mentioned here today, be also with one desire to live in accordance with the reach of 21st century civilization? Do those who are called citizens of Serbia set certain conditions for both this parliament and this government and want to ensure, through life, the laws that are enforceable in practice, the quality of life that citizens of the world of developed countries today in the 21st century. Of course, we make the laws because we want to meet the needs of citizens and of Caack, and of the Arundelovac, and of the Kruševac, and of Leskovec, and of all other parts of Serbia, because these laws that we bring today are not dead letters on paper, these are laws that will be enforceable in practice. As practice seems, I have to look back at the criticisms of some people who here, indeed, from a position of unargued criticism, from the position of amnesia, from oblivion, from short memories, are trying to impute the current minister, and the current assembly of parliament and the current ruling majority in this House, that we are practically passing laws that we are not implementing. One of my predecessors and colleagues who cried out loudly that the laws in Serbia were not implemented and brought in to be just a dead letter on paper, forgets that it belonged to that party who was directly responsible for postal services, the postal traffic in the Republic of Serbia, and that the minister, who is sitting as our colleague today, proposed the law and the formation of the agency in 2005, so before he grabs the stone and throws it at us, let him ask himself what he did, what his colleagues did, because it's not some unknown people, these are the people we see every day in this Parliament and they ask a lot of questions. But there is a practice in Serbia where it is much easier to reach the heavy burden of condemning others, and it is easy to reject the burden of self-judgment, that it is much easier to take and throw a stone at another than to wonder what I have done today for the benefit of the citizens of this country, for the sake of Serbia and for future generations. We had a debate that through this law speaks from the aspect of the monopoly. Monopoly as a category that makes life difficult for citizens, which challenges competition and competitiveness of businesses, markets, which prevents citizens from choosing who will provide them with a service, whether it is postal, commercial and any other one is certainly bad. Monopoly is something that provides someone to earn extra profit, something that provides someone with a big price difference and something that ensures someone that they are rich using their privileged position on the market. We can fight monopolies by passing quality laws, suppressing monopoly and opening the market. The opening of the market also means a competition, and the competition implies that all participants in the competition have equal conditions and equal chances. We had one historic approach through an invitation to history in this debate. It is not bad sometimes to refer to historical facts, circumstances, memories, how this short-term and recent history, because what was in 2005 already represents certain historical facts, but also what was in the 1807th year represents historical facts that are irrefutable. When we call for tradition, when we call for history, when we call for those values of Serbian society, very often the facts are ignored, and some who do not respond to us and do not respond to the foreigners we belong to are hidden, some are deliberately highlighted, when we address citizens to seek to be citizens, and, above all, voters are moved, because they are the most distant feelings, using and doing those lofty words such as patriotism, patriotism, the state of Serbia, the country of the country. So if we call on history just like that, let's call on the historical knowledge that's been preserved in books, not to refer to the experiences of those who haven't read a lot of books, but they've grown love for some small books that are called books in Serbia, and most often they're party books. It is said in history that the beginning of postal services in Serbia "needs every Serb, especially a village farmer to come to the village to give a letter to a farmer who enjoyed his time as a farmer and the hour to send it to where and to whom it goes". This little unrelated sentence, which reads in the Karadjordje's criminal code or the Criminal Code, shows for the first time an attempt to form a post office in Serbia. In the history of Serbia, in 1817, when Principal Milos was elected supreme scribe, it should be noted that the citizens of Paris had a mailbox that year. Some who are called upon to use the golden spoon and fork first as a nation are rightly called. Our frescoes show that we were really in the first place. Today, the golden spoon and fork sound quite bluntly in an empty plate, not in the plate of our household or our man eating from that plate, but from the plate in which we all need to put that food from the altar of the legislature that will, above all, allow the Serbian fork, the Serbian spoon, the Serbian plate, but above all, the Serbian soul will be filled with those needs that are not only seen in food and food. Because I'm going to call history again, in 1875, when someone made the effort and invented the phone, it couldn't have worked if it hadn't been for Michael Pupin, who in 1900 made it possible to transport both telegraph and telephone traffic remotely, and there would have never been a phone if it hadn't been for Michael Pupin, a Serb, and we should be proud to point out. Let's call in some events from Serbian history that are also important for the Post Office, which we ignore here. Let me now, not have a year ahead of me, to read you a discussion or some of the discussions that were held in this lofty house, in the Serbian Parliament, throughout history, in 1866, when the first Law on the Postage of the Serbian Principality was passed, which with changes was valid until 1918. I want to read to you the 1868 record when a decision is made to get 26 postal circuits from Graz with the feds, received by the command postman, Belgrade's Mihajlo Piperin. What do you say? Then some, who consider themselves patriots, say: "Why do we obtain chariots from Graz? That's what we do to satisfy Austria's interests, then the Austrian state, that's what we do to satisfy the interests of the rotten West. The same carriages are made by the Kragujevac Military Institute. "Here are the comparisons -- postage carriages from Graco, a destination between Jagodina and Belgrade, were passing three times faster than such carriages from Kragujevac. After that, a decision is made to obtain more of these chariots. Here's what you say when the Serbs... If anyone is bored, if anyone is tired, let him go home to sleep, let him rest, and let the rest come to this hall, able to follow the presentation of the messengers of the people. In 1864, Serbia is a signator and founder of the World Postal Union in Bern. Today, when many are accusing us through this debate to accept the principles of this rotten West, that we are passing laws to satisfy one's vanity, in order to satisfy one's conditions, today when someone is using the law as an argument for the adoption of this law not as a result of a political necessity, as a result of a real necessity, but as a result of political pressure, may again be called to a discussion in the Serbian parliament about the purchase of a postal traffic locomotive. Some who today, I do not want to name them, but also call on the heritage tradition of the political party, as they say, that year when the locomotives were purchased – "The locomotives will scare our cows because they will make a screaming sound and they will give less milk. If we organize a postal carriage, with a six-seat crossing, the postal carriage will travel faster from Belgrade to Nis than that train. "Maybe he had in mind the fact that today's train at the part of the Jagodina track travels at a speed of 47 km, but at that time all trains were going at the same speed. Today, European trains are going at a speed of over 300 km per hour, so let some of us who are criticizing us wonder how much their contribution is to our trains going at that speed and at that pace. I invite them to join the same train together. Because there is only one train for the future in this country and there is no return ticket on that train. It's a ticket just for progress. It is just a map that drives high speed and high security in prosperity, in progress, into a civilized environment, which Serbs as a people and citizens of Serbia belong to. If someone thinks that the world can go in such a way as to offer the world our greatest faults as our greatest virtues, which criticises everything that is good, which criticises everything that needs to improve the quality of life of the citizens of this country, then they are very wrong. Because, on the Serbian horizon, there is only one lighthouse on the horizon of Europe and civilization - the beacon of knowledge, the beacon of progress, the beacon of progress. These laws allow us to follow that beacon.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38788	13 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Maras, followed by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38789	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, with all due respect for the topic on the agenda, I really had no intention of participating in the debate, especially to spoil this beautiful atmosphere that has ruled since the very beginning and your presentation, but when I saw that MPs from other parliamentary groups were asking questions about Telecom, I think this is now the right opportunity to just get answers to some simple questions. You know that LDP, as the people say, is a pro-European party. We are above all about making European values come to life here in Serbia and then becoming part of the EU. You also know that we are for privatisation, privatisation of public enterprises, not ad hoc privatisation, as the privatisation of Telecom is planned, but to create a plan and strategy in which public enterprises will be privatised. Of course we're in favour of privatizing Telecom, but here we're asking one key question. Even though you've said it repeatedly in a television show, it's been two weeks since then and I'm afraid there may be a possibility that the answer is no longer the same. Mrs Matic, with all due respect and with the support of what you were saying then, I would like you to repeat it once more - will Telecom's privatisation be privatized and the telecommunications network? Then I'd like you to tell me if there's a definition in the law, any, in any regulation, what's a telecommunications sewerage or a network? So, is there a definition of that? If there is no definition of what a telecommunications sewerage is, then various abuses are possible. We can easily offer you a definition of telecommunications sewerage. I believe that personally, as a person who understands a lot more about what I'm talking about right now than I do, given that I'm a lawyer, you'd agree with that. This isn't what we made up. This is what people who deal with this topic gave us. But I'd like you to tell us. I think that's two key questions at the moment. So, is there in the law a definition of telecommunications sewerage, if there is no such thing as pre-privitation, will it be defined? The most important issue, since it is of public interest -- I know that your party president the other day, Minister Dinkic, when he was there, said he disagreed with the way the NIS was sold, as well as the G 17 MPs, who spoke publicly. I really believe that you had a good intention then, like us, to protect the public interest, I hope that you will now, as you said two weeks ago, or ten days ago, say that there will be no privatisation of the telecommunications sewerage, I hope that you are still behind it, as a party and as a minister yourself, and I hope that you will gain strength with your party colleagues that this opinion prevails in the government and that when you privatise Telecom will not be privatised telecommunication sewers. All those who have touched that subject know what that means. It's a concession that we give someone a wake-up call, regardless of the high price that will be achieved during the sale of Telecom. Not wanting to abuse, Mrs. Comic, time and topic, but I'm not the first to raise the issue of Telecom. I think this is an ideal opportunity. When "Telecom" is privatized, we won't have a chance to talk about it, because it won't come to the Assembly and I think now is the right time for Mrs Matic to give us an answer. I think that, like other citizens of Serbia, and like all MPs who make up this assembly, both those who sit and those who do not sit here, we are all here to protect the public interest. So I'd like to ask you an answer to those two questions. I know you wrote it down, so I don't have to repeat it. But what we're most interested in is whether a telecommunications sewerage will be privatized during the sale of Telecom?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38790	People's MP, with full understanding of the interest of the subject, I must warn of the respect of Article 103 and the obligation to talk about the agenda. Telecom has been a special company for 14 years and has nothing to do with our agenda today, as much understanding as it has for the interest of Members, but our right to be interested cannot be separated from our obligation to do so under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38791	Mrs. Comic, I'd like to apologize if I have abused, in your opinion, a pay phone. I didn't mean to. But I'm not the first to mention it. I just wanted to say that I wanted to take this opportunity and, if I have to, I apologize once again if you think I've abused it. (Zoran Ostojić, from the post: And the theme when the MP spoke about the roads, what does this have to do with this topic? )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38792	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. People's MPs are earning, with obvious intent to warn through the discarding of the unequal treatment of the MPs. The warning you gave, with careful insight into the stenogram, you will see that the MPs who speak exclusively of Telecom have been warned. I repeat, I do not dispute the interest of all MPs and subjects, but Article 103 is very clear. The MP who explains the historical reminiscing of the subject and who is trying to introduce the historical development of PTT traffic, has the right to do the same, as everyone else. Therefore, the application of the Rules of Procedure is strict and all MPs are equal before the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Markicevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38793	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Milivojevic, although I'm in a bit of an awkward situation since he's not here, I'd like to replicate. You know, if he was in the topic, then I really have the right to replicate him, because he was talking about infrastructure, about rail infrastructure, I guess about trains as part of postal traffic, so he talked about the railroad, about the speed of the railroad, about the speed of the locomotives, and so on. Of course, we in New Serbia recognize ourselves in this, since it is obvious what Mr Milivojevic is alluding to. Those questions I've been asking, that's what I'm saying to Mr. Milivojevic, he can't possibly have some kind of pirate song about calling for history and what was 150 years ago, and the carriages, we're just missing Indians and cowboys. But there is no doubt one thing he says about his party – the high degree of internal democracy in the Democratic Party. Because what he asked me, that is, where I was identified as deputy head of the New Serbia parliamentary group, he actually asked the former Minister of Telecommunications and the current president of the Democratic Party, Boris Tadic. To the current president of the National Council for Infrastructure, Mr. Milivojevic, ask him that question, not to ask someone who is not present, and when he is present, you are smaller than a soft grain. So in a month, it's going to be two years from now how this government works. The National Infrastructure Council has been formed. Is it constitutional or not? Who's asking you? That National Council exists. All Serbia knows that DS President Boris Tadic, president of the National Council for Infrastructure. Mr. Milivoevich, you ask him that question. If you do not have the courage to address these questions publicly, ask at some intrapartial meetings. I think that would be fairer to the citizens of Serbia. To talk like that, and to avoid answering questions, do you have a responsibility as a member of the ruling coalition why it has cost citizens a double phone subscription without reason? I repeat, that is how 82m euros are taken from Serbian citizens, from their poverty, and given to someone who will Europeanise Telekom and PTT Serbia. You are not answering the question of what will happen to those workers who are employed in PTT Serbia, what will happen to citizens, millions of Serbian citizens who participated in the creation of infrastructure that is now owned by PTT and Telekom. We all know that the peasants, our farmers, since you from Dučalovic, under Ovčar, gave the cow the best in the barn to have a phone, and now someone will take it from him on behalf of the European road and hand it to a foreign company, we all know what it's called, that the government will survive with those billions of euros, how much it will get for Telekom. What are we going to do later, Mr. Milivoevich?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38794	Right on line, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38795	Madam Chairman, I'm going to use the line anyway. For those not informed and not informed, Mr Boris Tadic was never a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but in the government of the SRJ. My discussion was about the period since 2005. That's when the DS was in opposition. I know that some act as if we were importing ministers from China or Sweden, we were importing trains and locomotives from Sweden, not ministers. I am sorry that some are recognized in every word I say, but it is good for the citizens of Serbia to come out publicly and to be recognized, to say, yes, we are those whom Srdjan Milivojevic meant when he asked what kind of laws you passed in 2005 and why you did not implement them. When Boris Tadic served as minister in the SRJ government, his ministry did not steal or steal, it was done, but it was not working, it was done very seriously. Stealing and stealing are introduced as a termology into Serbia's political life at another time, just at a time when we did not import ministers from Sweden, but trains and locomotives. I understand the anxiety about the Special Prosecutor's activity and I understand the concern and concern for my party staff, whether the session of the main committee will be in the Sava Centre or in the Central Prison, but it is a concern for people who experience politics in this way. I really have no intention of being a spokesman here or the Special Prosecutor's Office, or of warning anyone, that I recommend to anyone, everyone is obliged to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to use in the discussion those arguments that they think will be good, to give him a good voter rating, to allow him to achieve what his party wants and what he stands for. Most often there is a big difference between doctrine and political practice, especially in the functioning of some parties in Serbia. One is said, the other is done, there are two morals. The morale that is being propagated does not adhere to him, and the morals they adhere to is not propagating him. I will not speak further on this subject because it is not the subject of this session, the subject of this session is postal services and the quality of postal services. When it comes to peasants in Dučalovic, thank Lord God, they also have phones, they also have cell phones, they have everything that peasants need to have. They also have problems that all agricultural producers around the world have, especially in Serbia, and these problems are great. We don't run away from responsibility, we go into trouble, we don't push problems under the carpet. When we pass the agency law, then we choose the advice of the agencies and try to enforce the law within the prescribed time limit. So much for the activity and work of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38796	The MP has been reported. You'll get a replica. I remind all MPs that the contents of the replica are not subject to Article 103. So, during the replica, there is no need to talk about the agenda, but the contents of the replica are subject to members who define our conduct, so I would ask all MPs that, using the right to reply, they do not forget the obligations of members who define the content, manner and style of speech that we are obliged to treat each other. National MP Miroslav Markicevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38797	What you're giving me is another right to the replica. I took it as a confession to me that I didn't abuse the Rules of Procedure or anything, but to refer to the previous speaker. Mr. Milivojevic, we recently passed many laws in the area of justice, do not violate them. Don't dissuade it. Don't order charges here from the assembly benches. It's not the work of the MPs. Let's let the D.A. and the D.A. and all the state authorities and the judicial authorities do their job. Don't dissuade them and disrespect them. What you're saying, it's a threat to an independent judiciary as a single branch of government. Let them do their job and let them say, both the police and everyone with their investigations. Don't sue, judge and order who gets arrested and where they'll be sitting on the board. The elections are getting closer, Mr. Milivojevic, so someone who's been worse can be down there, as our former Dalmatian brothers say. From where anything was imported, which locomotives, let the competent judicial authorities say. Why do you do that? Besides, it's very difficult for me that someone more serious from the DS isn't dealing with it than you are. If we were to talk here right now, with the risk of the vice president warning me who imported what, do you know what style that is? It's a style like saying who imported burger producers and burgers in Kruševec. The whole Krushevac knows what I'm talking about. But that's not the point, Mr. Milivoevich. I repeat, the topic is why Serbian citizens are being robbed through a telephone subscription. That's what you answer them. How do citizens live? Why are 600,000 people in folk cuisines in the most native year for Serbia, which you speak so beautifully of historically what happened 200 years ago, and where there were carriages, where there were Indians and where they were cowboys. That doesn't interest the citizens, Mr. Milivoevich. They're interested in this moment, how to feed their children, how to educate their children. Answering them as a representative of the ruling coalition that sets out the fate of Serbian citizens and determines how they live. That's what you're talking about, not ordering charges here. Let him do that independent judiciary, Mr. Milivoevich. If you haven't learned so far, we are the legislative branch of the government, the National Assembly, and the Special Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary do their job. Don't put pressure on them. It's not a European road trip, Mr. Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38798	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, right on line. This circle of replicas is closed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38799	It's my expertise and competence to answer someone. There is a fine work for those who read the books of Kanjoš Macedonović, and there says: Better and better-looking have gone to the better and better-looking, and I have hardly liked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38800	The word has a folk MP Milan Avramovic, followed by a folk MP, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38801	If nothing, these replicas at least have a good mood in the O.R. The discussion comes down to the proposal for a law on the validation of the amendments and additions of certain parts of the regional agreement on the European broadcasting zone. I have to start by saying that we from the SRS are for switching from analogue to digital broadcasting and there's nothing controversial about it. We are also in order to settle the situation in the media, so that there are no gaps that were recognizable in the previous period. Let's just say that in the day of mourning, we have the fun character of the show, that through cable television, we're broadcasting the Thompson concert. So that you don't look at children's pornography during the afternoon and afternoon and there won't be any violations, after all, and pre-election silence, abuse of certain broadcasters for political purposes, we are for the introduction of order in this area. What is indecisive by this law is the continuation of old practice. By moving from analogue to digital broadcasting, we will only get a cleaner picture, provided that we meet the conditions of this law that we adopt today, and in this picture we can only see a government attack on the opposition, that it is guilty of the country's poor condition. So the old practice of switching from analogue to digital is not going to change. The abuse of the state, even by this law, can only be greater. In order not to talk without arguments, I'm going to have to start with an analysis. We received data from May 2009 that Serbia plans to switch to digital broadcasting by 4 April 2012. The government says it is ready to set aside between 15m and 40m euros to compensate citizens for the costs of buying devices that allow digital signals to be received on old televisions. To what extent and to what practice it will be implemented, since not all citizens have bought all the devices or may not be able to buy, it remains to be specified. Of course, what we need to draw attention to is that getting a whole new programme broadcasting system costs over 50 million dinars. So here we have 40 and 15, and that's 55 for citizens only, and where to get a program broadcasting system, we just need to see that. If we take into account that we are in the economic situation in which we are and that a number of laws are passed where criminal policy is a fundamental postulate for law-making, in order to fill Serbia's budget, I don't know how we're going to separate 50 million, but given that the deadline of 2012 is also possible. Consider, too, that the government is at the beginning of the digital revolution and that there will be a series of abuses for sure in the next period. In particular, in a series of abuses, I would also like to include the role of television in support of development, which has already been in some way threatened, because public broadcasting services have been forced to compromise, so when it comes to quality, to enable those competing commercial channels to function in a way that works and, for example, public TV services. Many of them were dependent on government and political parties, I mean broadcasters. Moreover, there has been a high concentration of ownership in the commercial sector, with a steady tendency to increase and often a clear political impact. Such a development would endanger diversity in the field of electronic media, with the highest risk of political abuse. So, since Serbia does not have the legal regulation of broadcasting, remember the situation when RTS did not want to wait for the transition strategy to be adopted from analogue to digital broadcasting, so it let certain emissions work without the RRA's consent. So RTS didn't get the consent of the RRA to start broadcasting a full-day cultural-art program through a digital signal. She later carried out the obligation, although according to the Development Strategy, she was the main holder of digitisation, RTS started with digital broadcasting, and did not inform the RRA and gave the explanation as needed. Later, it was done and, in fact, it took the first image through digital broadcasting. It is also unclear how RTS managed to start broadcasting the programme, since there is currently no plan for the distribution of digital frequencies in Serbia. If RRA and RATEL have shared permits for analogue broadcasting, the question arises how has this RTS digital programme been implemented in the first place? It is assumed that one of its analogue frequencies is likely to have been misused by the Public Service to broadcast a digital programme. Now there is another problem, and the problem is that in today's situation a small number of citizens can afford a digital signal. The Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society established an inter-resor working group currently working to find a solution. In January 2009, the transition period from analogue to digital broadcasting, given that in Serbia licences for national broadcasting were issued by 2014, for regional and local programmes by 2015, means that Serbia must introduce digital broadcasting by 17 June 2015 and not until 4 April 2012. How will this broadcasting schedule be made for these two years, from 4 April 2012 to 2015, until they have local permit emitters? We assume that this plan will have to define whether Serbia has technical conditions for this transition period, because RATEL has issued all broadcasting permits, so no frequency that can now be used as digital has been left behind. The question arises, then, whether a significant role of existing national commercial broadcasters has entered into the action plan, which, in a successful transition to digital broadcasting, may have difficulties, and that they are asked for significant engagement, both materially and humanely, as well as dangers that can lead to the failure to switch to digital broadcasting. The dangers are: piracy or illegal broadcasting, low levels of penetration of digital signal, poor quality of signal, but also the absence of a guarantee of protection of acquired rights of existing broadcasters, which are in effect until 2015, and respect of their legitimate interests. What I must say is that it is true that EU members are suggested to stop the analogue broadcast and to fully switch to digital television by the beginning of 2012, but we are not yet a member of the EU, and this deadline applies to us because you set it up or because we have an obligation to enter these obligations into the draft law. It is found that on 4 April 2012, it is the date of a complete switch to the digital terrestrial broadcasting of television programmes in the Republic of Serbia. If we're not a member and we don't have money, the question is, will we honor this deadline? If you take the experience of America, which has twice broken the deadline from analogue to digital, which has huge resources at its disposal, the question is how are we going to implement it in Serbia. What we were able to isolate from the plan itself, which we didn't get, are key components that are digital and radio-different and can be classified into three basic levels. Therefore, content manufacturers, network operators and users. Digital broadcasting systems, in addition to the content related to the programme itself, provide a range of new services, whether they are already included in the basic programme or are offered separately. The question we ask is: who will decide on a special set of new services and what broadcasters? If we take into account that some broadcasters are privileged and in today's situation, I am referring to my discussion from the beginning where I say that old practice will continue, that it will continue to abuse certain radio-television houses or broadcasters, this is excellent evidence and failure and sentences in which the possibility of continuing abuse is opened. In particular, I mean the political programme, that is, the political propaganda that is being led for the purpose of the political party that is in power. This plan also mentions the standardisation of digital broadcasting areas. I have to say that it is true that RATEL has been admitted to ETSI membership since 2007, and this enables direct application of ETSI standards, except we don't know if we can handle it financially. The standard for compression and digital audio transmission also left one big question mark, in which we do not know if we will be able to succumb. It is also important to take into account the definition of legislative activities in order to achieve a legal framework for the development of digital broadcasting, as it is necessary to take into account the specificity and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, as well as existing rights and the market position of the emitter, which is not negligible at all, so we all have to agree. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. So that's the two-year deadline that cuts the license. The Telecommunications Development Strategy in Serbia from 2006 to 2010 included three Telecommunications Laws, the Law on Broadcasting and the Public Information Act and did not define what was needed. Let me give you an example. The European countries where the analogue signal is already included are Sweden, Finland, Switzerland, Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Serbia is not yet connected to an analogue television programme, which clearly signals it is lagging behind other European countries, as well as in all other areas, as well as here. This is due to the fact that television stations do not offer adequate digital platforms and do not show too much interest in providing these services to domestic viewers. In addition, the development of the cable network has a significant impact on the speed of switching from one signal to another. The cable reception in Serbia has not been sufficiently developed, and although it is being maximumly misused, so that the self-exclusion of the analogue programme will certainly have to take place gradually. If we have a deadline, if all the broadcasters can't fit into this bill all of a sudden, and we don't get involved gradually, we'll have a situation where one part of Serbia is in the dark or that part of Serbia that covers the broadcaster that didn't meet these conditions. If I am not mistaken, the government has been announced to speed up the process of switching to digital television by the end of the year, a decision is planned to be taken to isolate the RTS technology emissions. Afterwards, the government said a special public company will be formed to deal with the exclusive broadcasting of the television programme, not only for RTS, but for all stations that have permission to broadcast TV programmes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What does that practically represent? This is a monopolization of the transmission and transmission of digital signals by the future public enterprise, and we know who runs the public company and who will control it, it's a break that's in power. So, under one hat will be placed all the emitters, if what the government has announced is true, and then the media control will be maximum. Media control is now to a large extent in favour of the ruling coalition, and imagine even then. If we take the role of the RRA that is now marginalized, because we have a public example that RTS does not respect the Broadcasting Agency or that members of the Broadcasting Agency are elected in the way they are elected, that the Assembly Working Body gives two candidates to the Assembly, that one candidate in the vote does not pass due to political arrangements, and in the second vote, the same candidate after a certain period in the Assembly with a number of votes passed. If we see a political background for creating Serbia's media space, we certainly cannot agree, although the Constitution obliges us to implement this, with some parts of the transition analogue to digitally solely because of the abuse of power. If a good parallel is made, the co-operation with the judiciary that has not punished the broadcaster so far in the manner in which it should have been punished, but has punished broadcasters who were mostly critical of the authorities, we certainly cannot support this decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38802	15 minutes of MP time was used. The word has been sent by the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet, followed by the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic. The remaining time for MPs, MP Verica Radet and Zoran Krasic, is 37 minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking today about four draft laws, and if they are carefully read and studied all four proposals, then it is absolutely open to talk about cable TV and telephone traffic, and mobile and fixed telephony, then, of course, about the inevitable Telecom. So that I don't get into a situation where I get distracted from not talking about the subject, I'm going to say one historic sentence, since it's allowed. I remind you that the state is the founder of PTT, that PTT had 80% of the shares in Telecom and that through PTT the state became the owner of 80% of Telecom. This is absolutely true and that is why we can and we have the right and we suspect that this law, first and foremost, is now referring to the postal service law, is being brought in to fully clear the field of "Dec Telekom" or someone else, and when it comes to small shareholders and when it comes to this relationship of state and PTT, PTT and Telecom etc. The SRS is absolutely opposed to selling Telecom, not just at this point, which you say is of paramount importance because it is possible to achieve the highest price. We know, as all Serbian citizens know, that you are selling Telecom because you need money to fill the gaps in the budget and that is something that is absolutely unacceptable. The Prime Minister said the other day that he could justify why you are now entering the sales of Telecom, that Telecom is an old-fashioned family silver for the state of Serbia. Now a real question to anyone who is looking at us today – is someone normal and whether a good host is selling old collected family silver. So he compared Mr. Cvetkovic well, but then it's not a good conclusion that this old collected family silver should be sold. It's not just this question that you don't want to answer, which your colleagues asked if you were going to sell a telecommunications sewer within Telecom, I hope you'll finally answer that, but our question is why is it even sold to Telecom? Because it is not a good job for the state and because it is not a good job for the citizens of Serbia. It is easy to sell out everything that has a price in the state of Serbia, but it is difficult to return such a thing or create something of the same or greater value. This is what is not good at the work of this government and that is what is the way DOS functions all these 10 years. Of course, the citizens of Serbia and how they feel on their backs, and we hope that they will know and show the right moment. Why do we suspect this bill is related to the sale of Telecom? It doesn't matter if the buyer Telecom is already ordered "Dec Telecom" or another, we repeat that it's a bad job and that you think again in the government not to make such a bad deal and that you're not selling something that no one else would normally sell. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Postage Services was passed by MPs on 19 September 2008. Then, Madam Minister, we were suggested, you suggested that the law be passed by emergency procedure. Now I ask you – what is this urgency that lasts from 19 September 2008 until today, 14 April 2010? Of course, you've come up with a proposal and explained why it's so urgent. I will comment a little on what you have given to the MPs, and before that, only two members of the bill to look back, these are members of the 13th and 16th, because we will talk about it when we talk about the law in particular, because the MPs of the SRS were worthy and in September 2008 they handed it over to the Government of the Amendment. However, even then, the government made a statement about these amendments and then suddenly it was no longer important for you to pass the law, so it was removed from the agenda at the time. I remind you, there was already one time on this House's agenda. In Article 12, and in another previous member, you are talking about postal services that are universal, of general interest, etc., which is not, of course, controversial, but, among other things, that these services will be done at affordable prices. It is unserious to write in the law that something will be at affordable or unaccessible prices. You know, you're not a lawyer, but I suppose you have lawyers who should know that the legal norm has to be precise, clear, that it cannot be subject to any abuses, and imagine a term - affordable prices; compared to whom, I don't know, Saric, and the politicians that Homen announces that Saric financed or compared to a pensioner in Serbia who has six thousand dinars? Really inappropriate. We have put that amendment on, and of course we will also talk about it in the context of the amendments. In Article 16, you are talking about a public postal operator who is required to ensure the density of access points that meet the needs of users. We have here in action how this is actually being misused, because again you have this vague formulation to ensure the density of access places that responds to user needs. You know, there's no citizen in Serbia who doesn't need to be a postal service user at one point or another, one time or another. So you have to give every citizen of Serbia access to postal services, but not access to mail to travel for several hours. Every village and every village must have mail. Is it possible that for so many years, when we are so many, you boast, improve in both electronics and computer systems, technologically, in every respect, do you know how many villages, large villages, you have no mail, i.e. We don't have any mail? This is where a colleague used to say how many villages in the Arangelian municipality have no mail. Of course, this was spoken in the campaign for local elections in Arangelovac, and I don't blame it, it's an absolutely legitimate right, even the obligation of every MP to, among other things, from this place to the citizens of Arangelovac, who are now current because of the election to present their party's views, but the problem is that such a problem is not just expressed in Arangelovac, it is true. I was also, like, yesterday, in Arangelovac, in the village of Bukovic. It is a village that has indeed been built in recent years since Serbian radicals ruled in Arangelovac, an extremely built, built infrastructure of municipal, built road network, built a beautiful stadium, and the sports premises of the stadium, etc. Why am I bringing this up? Because I was fascinated by how much rabid the citizens of the village of Bukovic informed me yesterday that they would vote for Dr. Krautić this time because he helped them get cable television. All this complete infrastructure that's been done is probably something meaningful, but cable TV as something very significant. It is significant, but I'm telling you this for a reason, imagine what he would say to me, there are mail in Bukovic, but if I'd gone to some village where they don't have mail. Now, perhaps in one sentence I will come out of this topic and please, Mrs. Komic, don't mind, I will return to this bill very soon. When it comes to the citizens of Arangelovec, I would really like to call on the authorities to protect the citizens of Arangelovec from the inappropriately aggressive campaign of a party being carried out these days in Arangelovac. The SRS activists were attacked at some late hours last night. One of the activists was alone in the car, his legs kicked out the car. Police of Arangelovac and Kragujevac say they know who they are, that they are some people from Belgrade, from Vozdovac and Zemun municipalities. They promised to file charges against the wrongful judge, I don't want to doubt it, but I remind them that they promised and that they did indeed and that the citizens of Arangelovec knew which party I was talking about. It is that party, dear Arabs, whose representatives go to you in villages and promise that if you vote for them, it will lead you to a cow's yard and a few sheep. Of course no one believes that. These lies can be told, the citizens will recognize it, but I do ask the authorities to protect the citizens of Arangelovec from aggression, the aggressive campaign that this party is leading to Arangelovac these days. Now I'm coming back and I'm sorry again for this dyspression. What are the reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure, Mrs. Matic? The reason for the adoption of the amending and supplementing laws on postal services is the fact that it is in Article 32. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on postal services provides for the establishment of the Council of the Republic of Postage Services Agency as referred to in Articles 66 to 12. The postal service law is carried out by the Ministry. We also point out that the obligation to harmonise the law in this area is with positive European legislation and with regard to this law, which stands out because of the requirement to liberalise the postal market. If this is really how it is and if these were the reasons, then Mrs. Matic, please tell me why you've been waiting with such an emergency job since 19 September 2008 until today? Then there's been some damage, and we should know who's responsible for the damage. Please, I really expect you to explain that to us. You're talking about postal service users. At first, you boasted on behalf of the government how much you've achieved in this area. You spoke again about the electronic system, the electronic signature. You didn't mention the electronic government, but I can remind you, it's also your personal contribution to the work of this government. Do you have an answer to the question why, say, can't a Sunday telegram be sent to Serbia? Why can't a telegram be received on Sundays in Serbia? That's a big problem. It is not done, when a telegram is given, it is not every time a telegram of congratulations, a statement of condolences, etc., so it can be prolonged in one day. Telegrams often inform people of some urgent things, and if they don't receive a telegram on Sunday, if they receive it on Monday, then it doesn't mean anything to him anymore. It would be good if you'd noticed that problem in this past period since you've been minister. It would have been especially good if you'd solved the problem. You say in the light of this law that the adoption of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on postal services will not cause increased costs for citizens, businesses or small and medium-sized enterprises. The sole cost will be paid by postal operators on behalf of the Agency's licensing. You certainly know this isn't true. Besides, if you don't admit it, the citizens of Serbia know it. They know Serbia's citizens, what they've got in the meantime, and they know what they're paying for it, what services they're paying for it. Of course, this latest phone pick-up, it's also about, not directly to this law, but it is for the sale of Telecom and it is for the creation of the conditions of Deutsche Telekom or any other operator that will buy, unfortunately, Telecom Serbia. You became good when you bought the "Telecom of Republika Srpska" and when it was negotiated to buy the "Telecom of Montenegro" and instead of insisting on it, you also sell what you bought. It is truly incredible and unserious and we must, all day long, as we speak, remind you, and above all, to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They've collected phone services, and they're significant and, I'd say, unwarranted. It's been more expensive to send telegrams, especially service telegrams. It cost, or was introduced these days, a commission to pay certain utility bills recently. The citizens were surprised, it's also a bad job. You know, every time in the month when it's usual to pay these regular bills that every household pays, electricity, utility bills, taxes, building land, etc., they create in all the mails of the big crowd. Citizens didn't want to pay these services in banks, because banks charged them large fees on those bills. You instead of keeping those clients, because when he comes to pay the bills, he does some other jobs, some other postal service benefits, you instead of keeping it, you ran, so you introduced a commission to collect those bills. You work badly as a ministry. Mrs. Matic, I don't mean you personally, I mean the government of the Republic of Serbia, and if my colleague Krasic didn't mind, he'd pick up where I left off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38804	Used from the time of the parliamentary group is 18 minutes. You've got 19 minutes left. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38805	Of course, I'm not mad, Mrs. Comic, that you've figured it out. Mrs. Comic, you may have forgotten, we have a united debate today. a common principled single search. We have five points of the agenda. Two points are directly related to telecommunications. So, in a direct relationship. I'm saying this because today was a very nice, educational debate. Not only are the scribe pigeons mentioned yet, but from the diligence, so we're headed this way completely. These today, you know, were interesting and this was along the highway that was being done. Some say Beko sets up some optical cable, etc. They've been screaming here for days about who does it without permission. You don't get an answer, because the National Assembly knows which hole you're playing. It serves only for media manipulations, because essential government is located somewhere far away. Perhaps not even in government and ministries, but in informal groups that shape life in the Republic of Serbia. This is what I'm saying right now because today is about the discussion of the subject and the post office car and the plane that drives the mail. The theme is, I have to tell you, and the postmark. Although there's no postage stamp in this law, I don't know who's going to make the stamps, who's going to print them. But now let's get this discussion serious. I have a moral right and a political obligation to criticise this first bill, because we did the same thing a few years ago when this law was passed. Let me remind you, take the stenograms from that session when the postal traffic law is passed. We don't need to add anything else, just repeat what we said back then. And then we warned you of the adverse consequences of such a law. You've come, you've admitted, by the very fact that you're submitting a motion to change that law. Now, in order not to burden the audience or the public with that same argument, I'm just going to put two principles on this. There's one rule - the state has a monopoly and no one else has a monopoly. When the state is said, it is primarily thought of by those authorities and institutions that represent power. No one else can have a monopoly. If in the economic sphere or in the field of services, goods, production, etc., some monopolies occur, then the state is obliged to react. There are two recognizable instruments. The first is control, so that the monopoly can be restrained and kept in some frames, because it is impossible to avoid the monopoly, because one company is doing this with us – Elektroprivreda, natural monopolies. You control him. How? The Management Board, prices, business policy etc. Another way is to encourage competition in the given area. And then we told you that if you were to repatriate a condition that someone represents a European standard, you must take into account the specificities and exceptions that are prescribed by those standards. You can't put one country in this territory with this number of inhabitants in the same basket with that country that's 20 times the size or which 10 or 15 times the population. If the national, economic and any other organisation of some of the developed European states is being repainted to the situation in Serbia, then it becomes a freak. It's becoming a kind of cartoon. Then you lose the effects. In each of these transformations, any area with a call, let it also be to international standards or European standards, a daily citizen should feel some benefit. When it comes to postal services, probably the benefit that needs to be felt by transformation is the quality of service and is the price of service. Did we get the quality? We didn't. What did we get for the price? We got higher prices. When state monopolies break down in such an uncontrollable way, in conditions where the unstable political situation, when the state, so you tell us, depends on foreign loans, then no wonder at all that organized crime creates power. Now I wouldn't be surprised if cocaine was transported in a mail van. That would be a completely possible option to me. Why? Because we don't have a serious institution, and because we have organised crime representatives sitting in our respective state institutions. It doesn't say that on their foreheads, but they're getting apanague there. Either they notify or they finish some work for those stakeholders who are only formally outside the government. You don't have to be astounding or with surprise follow what I'm saying. That's your word. How can you say in a few years that someone washed a billion and 300 and a few million euros? It had to go through payment traffic, through banks. That had to be controlled by the Money Laundering Prevention Authority. That's what the tax authorities had to see. It had to be this set that escaped from the Privatisation Agency, in a way, to have insight. And if it hadn't been for the boat and the children to call on the satellite phone, the army came and saw it help. They got scared, started jumping off a boat, no one would know two tons of cocaine was there. Let go of what's being praised by the BIA and these, that's not true. That's our country, that's our rule. I'm not surprised that the tycoons are funded by most of the parties. Why? They don't care about ideology. It's important to them that the party that's in Arangelovac in power, so no matter who it is, be one of his subscribers. The tycoon will rightly say - I helped you with the campaign, where do you now touch my "Prince Milos"? What are politicians, what are citizens? The pawns. It's the biggest problem and there are our problems as people and as states. It's got to end, it's got to end. I don't think Serbia is ready for that kind of competition in postal traffic. I'm absolutely sure that the state had first of all the need to strengthen its system, its public enterprise that deals with postal traffic, but to suppress its monopoly, to keep it in bearable frames. You know, now it's really illusory to talk. Our villages are empty. Why? No mail. Will DHL take it to a village? They will, but what's the price? Who can pay for that? It used to be an idea for the Post Office to develop, so it could take KDS. What happened in the meantime? Broken, Soros came in, entered some different, and then the citizens paid a TV subscription over the numbers and paid the cable distributor. What's a new democracy, what's like a liquid that's positive for citizens? Minus to minus. Please, this costs as much as a fixed phone, and you have to change this for two years. Someone will say, "You're guilty of buying it yourself." He did, but someone forced him to. That's the story of our Telekom, and that monopoly needs to be controlled. But profit should be returned to whoever owns the capital in an appropriate proportion. Why sell it? Who is it given to? This government, as much as it is a government, as much as it acts, even how many ministers are able, I am in favour of being strong ministers, to tell you. I'm a great opponent that what's the authentic jurisdiction of the state is being pulled out of state authorities and given to singing societies called agencies. I am a great opponent of those who have made a large number of agencies, and today, when the opposition criticises the formation of agencies. We have a consistent attitude from the beginning. What is the jurisdiction of the state should be done by the state authority. You gave it to the tobacco agency. What's her jurisdiction? She legalized this whole thing. Broadcasting, not to tell you, not to tell you what's going on. You have this one for telecommunications, so I don't talk to you. Let me not tell you about these other agencies. Where's the state? What functions did the state maintain? Power. What are ministers? They became a serial product on the tape that the media should present, without teeth, without jurisdiction, no authority, dissipated. The government is in public enterprises, agencies, informal groups. It is not the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is not an interest. It's someone else's interest. It is the interest of those who disturb the laws and who demand that those who are required to enforce the laws, control the laws, stay with them at the fair. That's why we're waking up. We've been distracting from the beginning what that capillary decomposition means. You've raised the price of Telekom's services, that when that new owner comes to be protected for at least a year. Why sell it? Why, at all costs, simulate some international standards and put the state in a position to look like a cartoon? You can see that on the street. I don't dispute those international standards, but it's not all about that kind of application. A few days ago on a show, you said, ma'am, I figured you weren't informed, and then I saw that you said it in a trendy manner, you said that if you privatized Telekom, then it would speed up the procedure, you wouldn't go to public procurement. They don't go to public procurement now, by law. Do you know that? It's based on some kind of paper. Our republican public enterprises don't apply the Public Procurement Act at all, and you all know that. Where does that lead? PTT, or the Post Office, to be correct, is a significant system for this country. In a joke they say, the last thing that goes down is when the state disappears because someone needs to make a letter, where the decision is that the state no longer exists. They say it's a joke, but it's a bad thing. As the text message went a few days ago, when it was a white Schengen, it says to determine who's last to turn off the power, since everyone's going to leave the country. When people start making jokes with the state and the government, it means that it's burned to death, his fingernails are burned. The people are in despair, just shut up, because false messiahs, rescuers, etc. appear. That's what the people are always exposed to. One of these international standards, these four laws, shouldn't be a problem about it, but look at this, this postal service law is just another good, picturesque example of how it shouldn't be done. There are a few things about how monopolies are controlled, how they are suppressed and kept within frames. They hold that the services of the monopolies would not go beyond some framework and be unbearable to the citizens. I do not argue that there are some who do not want to enter the post office to send a letter, they have so much money that they are able to send a taxi letter with 100 bouquets of roses from Belgrade to Nis. But it is not the authentic interest of most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Radeta has explained to you what's been going on, what's happened over the past few months, how these services have been accumulated. You know, something's doing better. If it's going up, it's bad intentions. But if we warn you that what you're doing will bring negative results to all of us, and you go blindly and say, well, that's a European standard, here, after a few years, you've come to ask for a change of law. We have a few laws at this meeting, and we have one on regional development. Six months ago he was brought in, we told you everything that was wrong, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's always something European about you. Or like DS. He says everything is democratic in the state, only he suggested DS. What has nothing to do with the law, with the Constitution, doesn't matter, it matters that it's democratic. Now that it's so democratic, let me tell you, go to the site, so you see these ship flags. When he shows up on board a blue flag with yellow apps, that means there's a plague on the ship and no one's receiving it. I'm a little sarcastic. But you present everything to European standards. You show up here and you say -- just this to be adopted, tomorrow honey and milk, people, you don't need to work, you don't need to ask yourself anything, everything will be best. It's the classic definition of German socialism. That definition, when it turns around, looks about like this: socialism is when there's someone else who knows better than you knows what your interest is, so you need Tito and the party or not to use another name. Tell this President of the Republic, he's the president of Serbia, let him turn around in Serbia here. He's just running abroad. Wherever he is abroad, we experience tragedy, embarrassment and shame. One Haris Silajdzic to insult the people. Warn him, please. It's an alarming situation in Serbia. Please, when there's talk of Telekom, don't go there, I know you're financially broke and it's affecting the citizens, that they're doing nothing, but it's a normal consequence if there's no goods, our goods are gone, there's no work. Make promotions of employment, promotion of work, promotion of production. You've made a promotion of the financial market. Where? We're not on the financial market, there's strangers, you know. Make some new promotion to make people feel that they belong to both this people and this country, and that this is their country, that this is their safe house, that they are fighting for their country and for their family. Like this, you spread hopelessness. If it hadn't been for that moment, I wouldn't have known about diliances, horse owners, diliances, postage cars, etc. Let's have a more serious discussion. Here, first of all, we're talking about the state, the functioning of the government. You've taken the wrong path to suppressing the monopoly. I would never sell Telecom. Can I devalue my mail this way? I would never do that. I'd never sell it to the power industry. Let them be other shareholders? But I'd always hold 51, if not 70% state-owned. Second, stop talking about some ugly past. You're now in the coalition with the SPS. Don't insult them. Respect your coalition partners. Now you're at the same job together. I won't recognize myself in those stories of yours about the dark past, but trust and respect for your coalition partners. Make a deal with who changed in the meantime and how much he's changed. You're no longer the loathsome ones, they've accepted European standards, my God, everything's fine. If you're a government, be a power for the people, for this country, don't be someone who plays power and executes other people's interests. We're showing you this on this postal traffic law. Everything can be delayed, everything can be adapted to our needs, everything can be adapted to our interests, but you can't do that. Why? Because that lease you went into is very dangerous. A year ago, when I told you about organized crime, you smiled like you're smiling now, so the match came and started playing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38806	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38807	Article 27, Madam Chairman. I know you listen very carefully to what the MPs say. The gentleman who spoke before me has repeatedly mentioned "Telecom", not once did you warn him in 19 minutes. After three minutes, you warned me that I missed the topic. Please act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and treat all MPs, as you have said after my address, in the same way as the Rules of Procedure. I don't see why you're applying the Rules of Procedure when it comes to a single parliamentary group... I know there are, in a positive sense, sympathy, but I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure to all MPs. You're bound by it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38808	There's no damage to article 27. I refer you to the stenogram and the part in the stenogram concerning the discussion of MP Miroslav Markevic and your discussion. National MP Miroslav Markicevic warned in the 7th minute, out of the 10 available, that he was talking about the agenda because the content of his discussion was exclusively related to the circumstances surrounding the announced sale of "Telecoma". Your discussion also exclusively referred to the announced sale of Telecom. By looking at the stenogram, you will see that in the discussions of the MPs of Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic you also mention "Telekom" and that in the discussions you and MP Miroslav Markicevic have made an effort to say and to announce what you want. I repeat, do not slow down the high interest in the subject, I would not need to remind you that there is still a need to talk about the agenda. I listen carefully to every MP, and all MPs are equal before the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of all Parliament groups. Is there anyone else who hasn't used his membership rights in 93 wants a word? (No) The word has Minister Jasna Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38809	I would like to thank the MPs who discussed the points that are on the agenda today, especially those who have made an effort to read and discuss them in this way. I also wanted to answer some of the questions that were asked properly, but now the MPs who asked them are gone, so I don't know how logical it is to explain what happened to the urgency and why it matters, but I'm going to say it in short lines because of those who are following this session. The law, as mentioned several times, was handed over to the assembly procedure in September 2008 to consider an emergency procedure. However, given the large number of laws pending the review did not come to the agenda in the next few months, the government then made a decision to form a council, it was in March 2009, and in this way we solved an urgent problem which was to urgently address the absence of regulators on the market. I would also like to say that I cannot be held accountable for the policy in the postal sector in the past 60 months since the law was passed. In that period, I am the third minister and I have tried to make up for what was not done in those 60 months and to form a regulatory framework that allows the market to function. I would agree with those MPs who said it would be good to pass a new postal law and it will certainly be passed, but in a period of two to three years, since the Post Office of Serbia is currently not in a technological position to raise its business to a higher level, and that it will be possible in two years, as it will then complete the construction of the main postal centres that will lead to the automation of mail sorting, because we are now the only country in Europe that does not have such a thing and that the mail is still sorted manually. The problems some MPs have raised in connection with digitalisation of television are also relevant, they are taken into account, and Serbia is unfortunately not an EU member, and unfortunately not an EU member, has to make sure that most of our neighbours are already members of the EU, so Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria should follow EU recommendations and finish digitisation by 2012. Another one of our neighbours, who is also not an EU member of Croatia, has already started the process and it is certain that the border areas of our country will have great interference if we do not do so within that time. Of course, some MPs have said: anything can be delayed. Unfortunately, it is true and it has been a common practice here, and I don't think it's good and that we should hurry up with all those decisions that are inevitable. Reforms should be implemented quickly and should also be progressed. And classes can be repeated at school, but I don't think that's a recommendation for anyone. And the answer for Mr. Maraš, who returned in the meantime, I was just wondering if I should answer, is the following – the definition of sewerage exists also in the Law. It will be particularly well defined in the new electronic communications law, which I hope will arrive at the debate in the Assembly within the next month, and should be in the government next week and will contain all of those European standards on joint use of infrastructures that are in telecommunications today. Unfortunately, the best definition of sewerage was given in the 1997 Cup Contract, when Telekom Srbija was first sold to Greek, Italian customers and there is a taxation of what was sold in that Telekom. The legal and financial advisor who will now be taken into the process that started the other day will be to find a proper legal solution and see if there are any exits from that situation, if we actually sold it, if we only sold the right to use and what can be done? I hope that MPs who have expressed their great interest in this topic will also be interested in the electronic communications law, which should ensure competition in the telecommunications sector independently of the ownership structure, for which the first conditions were obtained by issuing a second fixed telephony licence several months ago. Thank you very much, and I expect to see you at the debate in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38810	I am concluding a joint principled and uniform review of the Amendment Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments to Article 12. Agreements on the International Telecommunications and Satellite Organisation, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Final Acts of the Regional Conference on Radio Communications for the Planning of Digital Terrestrial Broadcasting Service in Parts of Regions 1 and 3, in the frequency range 174-230 megahertz and 470-862 megahertz, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to certain Parts of the Regional Agreement on the European Broadcasting Area with Resolutions, Stokhl 1961 and the Proposal for Act on the Confirmation of Acts amending the Constitution and the Convention of the International Telecommunications Union. This concludes the morning session and continues the afternoon section at 2.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38811	Good afternoon. We're continuing the session. We move to a joint principle and uniform search of 21, 59 and 60 items of the agenda: – PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON CENTRAL REGISTRAL SOCIAL OBLIGATION, PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE CONVENTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATION OF WORK Number 183 ON THE PROTECTION OF TERRIBLE AND PROPOSAL OF THE CONFORMITY OF THE SERBIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF TURSE ON SOCIAL SECURITY According to Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, for a joint principled and unique search on points 21, 59 and 60 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of promoters Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, has called for the meeting of Snezana Lakicevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Milica Danilović, Director of the Central Register, Dragan Radovanović, Head of International Co-operation, European Integration and Projects in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and Ivana Bankovic, Assistant to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I'm taking the opportunity to tell you that Mr. Milosavljevic will be in the O.R. in a few minutes, because he's approaching the building right now. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on points 21, 59 and 60, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94 and Article 152(3), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and that is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes, 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Djuro Peric, MP Elvira Kovaca Group of Minorities; MP Milisav Petronijevic, MP of the SPS - JS; MP Jovan Nesovic, MP of the G17 Plus, MP Maja Vidinović, MP for European Serbia and MP Dr Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. According to Article 142(2) and Article 152(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on the Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Labour Organisation Convention No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on Social Security. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, MP Mr Meho Omerovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Does MP Aleksandar Pejcic, who delivered an opinion at the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs when considering the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Pejcic Alexander. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Government's representatives, I'm sorry there's no minister here to explain the law to us. I hope it comes to this debate of ours. In fact, we have long waited for this law on the central register of compulsory social security to enter the National Assembly. He is here before us, and in this context I have singled out my opinion on the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. In the course of my time, I'll try to explain why I've singled out my opinion. In fact, today we are facing one reality, which is that this socially responsible government, as it called itself at the beginning, is creating an extremely bad social environment and I am going to support that with certain facts. The basic conclusion is that we, citizens of Serbia, and how difficult it is with this government, and how difficult with this authority. Namely, when I said that I would support certain facts, I would use information from certain relevant institutions, such as the Statistical Office, such as representatives of the union, the Association of Entrepreneurs. The rise in unemployment has started since October 2008, just as this socially irresponsible government has completed its 100-day rule. The trend continues and in this context I want to say that last year Serbia lost 110,000 jobs, i.e. 110,000 workers are out of work, of which more than 50% of people are 40 to 45 years old, 13% from 25 to 29 years of age. At the moment, Serbia has about 70,000 companies in the blockade, whose account is in a blockade and threatens to liquidate these companies, which means a new exodus, the loss of new jobs. In the first quarter of this year alone, over 15,800 new jobs were lost, with growth trend. In fact, many of them lost their jobs, but they were not regulated by their employment, they were not paid contributions, the irresponsible employers were not paying contributions. Serbia is also essential to this new law in order to regulate the problem. Otherwise, we must remind Serbian citizens that the social security reform began in 2005, when the government applied loans according to IDA standards, without interest. That's when 25 million were taken. It was thought that this register would be under the auspices of the PIO Fund. However, there was an idea that it would be a unique legal entity with its organs. A brief chronology, to inform the citizens of Serbia that there has been a reform of the social system. In fact, the characteristics of this law are that at any time a worker, an employer, after receiving a unique number, can see if he has been paid a monthly contribution to three funds, such as the PIO Fund, the Health Fund and the Unemployment Fund. Thus, the state can react consistently to irresponsible employers. What's also important is that the state has lost a lot of funds in the budget these years, over 150 million say the statisticians say we lost in the budget because of the passing of one of these laws, because we didn't have one of these laws. The DSS is also very interested in this law, and we've looked at and analyzed the whole of this law, and we wanted to ask certain questions to the Minister, I don't know if we can help you, Mr. Minister, because we need too many explanations. In Article 35, which speaks of a single database, it is about technical conditions, but it is not about the date when someone will be able to apply that database because of these technical conditions. Also, in art. The 36th and 37th are very long deadlines. It is, in fact, the deadline until 2012 and 2013. In the form of amendments, we have responded to these members of the law. I hope you'll accept them and how the workers will benefit from it. I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38813	The word has the minister of trade and service Slobodan Milosavljevic, as the legislator.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38814	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, I'm glad to be here today as well as yesterday with you, and I'm honored every time I'm in this house. Allow me to present to you with a few words the draft law on the central register of mandatory social security. As you said, there is no dilemma that this law is required, that this law should bring significant economic effects towards better collection of contributions to compulsory social security. This is a simple and short law, 40 members. Practically, this law creates a legal basis for the functioning of the Central Register, which will perform certain, in this case and the law-defined business in the area of compulsory social security. There are a lot of problems in this area, and this law, I believe, will overcome a large number of problems, which have affected the use and exercise of social security rights, pension and disability insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance, but also the work of compulsory social security institutions such as the Republic Fund PIO, the Institute of Health Insurance, the National Employment Service. In addition, this law should bring about an improvement in the economic and efficiency of the business of legal entities in respect of the obligations they have under the regulations governing compulsory social security. The establishment of the Central Register of Contributors for Mandatory Social Insurance is one segment of the total reform of the social security system and the implementation of the established reform objectives, and above all, the improvement of the efficiency of the social security system and the strengthening of the capacity of the institutions of compulsory social security, the improvement of the collection of contributions for mandatory social insurance and payment control, the reduction of administrative costs in the mandatory social insurance system and others. The need for the establishment of the Central Register is also reflected in the need to establish a single harmonised database in the area of mandatory social security, which overcomes existing problems due to the existence of unequal databases of compulsory social security organisations, duplication of those, and that certain records are not kept by any authority, which significantly collects the social security system and leads to the inability of effective monitoring and control of the collection of contributions, without which insurance companies are unable to exercise the rights of compulsory social insurance. In addition, one of the most important functions of the Central Register is the resolution of one of the causes of the deficits in the social security system, which has been caused, among other things, by the failure to fulfil the legal obligations to pay contributions to compulsory social security. By functioning the central register and improving the record, the unconscious employers will be very quickly and easily identified and thus this problem or these holes, the financial trunks that exist, will be more effectively solved in the coming period. In addition to this, the adoption and application of this law will reduce the current costs of the administration in the field of social security and ensure more efficient functioning of the social security system, as the procedure for the exercise of the right of compulsory social security will be shorter and simpler and different ways and procedures for application to compulsory social security will reduce the necessary time, as well as the financial costs of legal entities to which they are exposed in the implementation of mandatory social insurance obligations, which they have in accordance with applicable legal regulations. The Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance shall be governed by the establishment of a central register, in accordance with the Law on Public Services, by bodies such as the Director and the Management Board, the provision of funds for work from the Republic's budget, donations and other sources of funding, the functioning of central register links with compulsory social security organisations, and by organisations responsible for the registration of legal and natural persons, as well as data, in part, jurisdiction, and many other matters. Keeping records of contributors, contributions paid, control of data on accounted and charged contributions, complex and comprehensive data analysis, indication to competent authorities of observed irregularities, records of data processed and collected contributions per insurance and per employer at monthly level and much more. The functioning of the central register of compulsory social security in full and consistent with the basic provisions of the law is expected by 31 December 2012. That's part of the answer to your question. In the transitional period, from the date of entry into force of the law until 31.12.2012, it is planned to carry out all preparatory actions and procedures, such as the adoption of sublegal acts relating to the application of the law, the preparation of software, electronic and other technical links and conditions, in order to connect the institutions of compulsory social security and central register and data collection to form a single database. In addition, further implementation of the strategy and action plan for the development of electronic administrations will be undertaken, in order to enable legal entities to have electronic connections, for example, to submit electronic applications and so on. The law defines the deadline until which the functions of the central register will be established. However, it is realistic to expect that the central register will be established and functioning before this deadline laid down in the draft law. The law on the central register of compulsory social security provides for the adoption of certain sub-legislative acts which will regulate, for example, the procedures relating to the single application of Article 11, the unique number of Articles 17, the establishment and content of the single database of Article 34, the takeover of the data on the bonds of contributions to employers and payers at the level of daily duty, which regulates Article 15, then the introduction of updates and use of data from the single database Article 29, the protection and security of data within the information system of Article 26, the form of tax returns by invoiced and charged contributions to compulsory social security upon deduction of Article 16. The adoption and application of the law on the central register of compulsory social security will improve the level of enforcement by employers, thus achieving a high level of payment of contributions to mandatory social security, so I repeat once again the expected economic effect will be very significant and it will just come from better and more effective collection of contributions to mandatory social security. According to the finance ministry, the tax administration, as part of this story, total debt in the name of the PIO contribution on 31 December of last year, amounts to over 180 billion dinars, out of which in the name of the main debt about 97.5 billion and in the name of interest about 82 billion. The payment of social security contributions is expected to significantly reduce deficits in compulsory social insurance organisations, as well as in the Republic Fund for PIO and to reduce budget interventions to cover pension deficits. For example, the 2010 financial plan of the Republic Fund for PIO planned for funding from the RS budget on behalf of the deficits of around 190 billion dinars. In the event that the central register is in office this year and that the payment of contributions for PIO is only about 10% improved, this would mean less budget cuts of around 200 million dinars. We all know how much in terms of significant budget deficits that is a major item and for this and for many others, I call on you to support the adoption of this law in the voting day and, of course, in the time for proposing amendments to correct and constructive proposals, help to correct this text of the law and correct it if possible. Thank you for your attention, and we're here to answer any more questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38815	Thank you, Minister. The presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, are coming in line. The word is Mr. Djuro Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38816	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the esteemed officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security creates a final good legal basis for the consolidation of the collection and reform of the pension administration under the known project "PARIP". The government, starting with a fixed policy on social security reform and commitments undertaken by international agreements on the implementation of reforms within certain deadlines, as well as a continuation of international financial support through a unscathed credit for the implementation of these reforms, adopted a regulation establishing the Central Register as a government service and as a transitional solution to the adoption of the law we are just discussing, which will regulate the status and part-round of the Central Register. As is known, there have been major problems with the collection of social security contributions that occur in different ways, whether the bonds do not pay at all, whether they are late for payment of contributions or that the contribution is paid for all employees on a much lower base than those that would be realistic. You simply don't know what who or how much he owes for unpaid contributions. The minister was just now saying that these debts are moving around 200 billion, which would be almost anything to cover what is given out of the budget for pensions, so that it would greatly disburse the budget, that it would actually be implemented to the end of the policy as set out in the law. In this way, funds for PIO and health insurance have been denied the ability to pay off their commitments, so they are forced to seek additional funding from the budget to settle these commitments, which always causes major discussions and earthquakes in the adoption of budgets. As a result, the functioning of the Central Register will allow the establishment of an appropriate organisational form for the establishment and management of a central database, in which different databases will be combined for the same groups of users in the field of social security, for employers and insurance, which will, without a doubt, ensure more effective control of the collection of social security contributions, reducing the costs of the administration in the field of social security and more efficient functioning of the entire social security system should point out that existing tax laws and laws governing certain forms of social security, PIO insurance, health insurance and insurance in case of unemployment are regulated different ways of keeping records on the bonds of contributions, employers and insurance companies, which in practice make it very common that the same records are kept in different ways with several bodies, without any coordination and coordination, or certain records are not kept with any of any of the bodies. By 2003, when the Tax Administration took control of the payment of contributions to PIO, it had made a complete mess where each barata had its own data, but at the end of the budget it still paid and connected the internship to the workers so that they could go to deserved retirement or to exercise some other right. As a result, it is in the opinion of the PUPS parliamentary group that the Central Register is formed as a single and harmonised database. In the current social security system, individuals' rights are not fully protected from unconscious employers. This law will establish regular monthly controls, analysis and harmonisation of data from the central register of payment bonds, employers and insurance companies with regard to payment of contributions and inform the Tax Administration of all observed irregularities in order to continue to act, which, in our opinion, will achieve a high level of payment of contributions and improve the level of enforcement of legal obligations. It is very important, in the opinion of the PUPS Parliamentary Group, to point out that this law establishes an amendment to the existing aggregate tax returns of the invoiced and charged social security contributions at deduction, to the extent that, in addition to the aggregated data on the paid social security contributions, the employer will enter individual data for each insurance undertaking on all grounds, and the IRS will supply that part of the tax application containing individual data to each insurance company to the Central Register, which will control these data and bring them into line with the data from the single database. Thus, the insurance company itself will have data at the monthly level whether its employer regularly appeases the obligation to pay contributions and on what basis. Now you'll know exactly who's to whom and what's to be paid, and it shouldn't be possible for a worker to get in that situation when he's supposed to retire to find out only then that there's nothing to pay for his contribution for years and there's no conditions for him to retire if that internship doesn't fit. It is precisely the monthly reporting at the level of insurance, security and control of the necessary data that will contribute to the identification of unconscious employers much faster, and it would also be avoided if contributions remained unpaid, and it becomes too late to demand those debts, which has been a common case so far, especially in the private sector. It is very important that the proposed central register law establish a strong link between key institutions in the social security system, such as the Republic Fund for PIO, the Republic Health Insurance Office, the National Employment Service, as well as their connection with the Tax Administration, through the Central Register, which represents a more efficient and effective system of data exchange for different purposes and leads to the most important, which is to improve customer services. Data from the Central Register can also be used by other state authorities if they are interested in using certain data, which is also significant. The data entered into a single database cannot be deleted and stored permanently, which is also significant. The proposed law introduces one newspaper. The introduction of a single number to be assigned to each payment obligation for compulsory social security contributions and the insured person and its relationship with the existing unique home number of citizens and the tax identification number, so that that single number can be used for social security needs in the exchange of data between the Central Register and the data users. That number, which is very important, will be generated in line with EU requirements, which relate to the identification number system, which are defined under the Data Protection Directive and as such a generated number in the perspective can become the only number to be used for social security needs. It is also important to point out that the bill provides that the Central Data Register, which refers to the basis of the contribution, the amount of the contribution paid and the periods to which these payments relate, will aggregately display each insurance undertaking at the annual level and deliver to the Republic of the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund by the end of February of the current year for the previous year. This information will be the basis for the Republic of the PIO Fund to make data reporting for the determination of insurance, earnings, fees, insurance bases, or contracted fees and the amount of the contribution paid. Finally, it should be pointed out that, given the real circumstances, the proposal for this law stipulates that natural persons who do not have the technical possibility to submit applications in electronic form are subject to a single application by the organisation of a mandatory social security organisation, which will be addressed by the person and on the basis of the evidence submitted for insight. The PUPS parliamentary group is convinced that the establishment and operation of the Central Register will, among other things, significantly contribute to a better collection of contributions to compulsory social security and thus reduce the participation of funds from the budget, which are very high, for the payment of pensions and other pension-inhabitation obligations. That is why the PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law on the day set for the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38817	The word has a representative of the Group of Minority MPs, Miss Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38818	The Honored Chairman, the Presidency, Mr Minister, the Honorable Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since this debate today is in principle, in fact a united debate on several points of the agenda, allow me to refer more to the proposal for a law confirming International Labour Organisation No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood in my presentation in front of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and SVM. Unfortunately, at the very beginning of my presentation, I must express my great personal regret that the resolution minister, Mr Ljajic, is not present, given certain issues, or suggestions, which I will have in my speech. First of all, I would like to start with that – what about gender equality or gender equality, how do we women, who are dealing with this issue, like to emphasize, have happened in the past few months or years? Why are we talking about gender equality? Because we're clearly half different. Nature’s sex characteristics show that women can have children, and men can’t. Last year she was very fertile in this field of gender equality, and that doesn't mean we should even men and women. Equality means that we should give equal opportunities to men and women, that in various fields they have equal chances for someone to confirm themselves. It is necessary to improve women's equality, to return specifically to the Convention that we are talking about today, the equality of women in labour as health and safety both women and children. The development of motherhood in domestic law and concrete practice is essential. The list of international documents relating to these fields, both gender equality and motherhood, is very broad. I'll take just a few out. More than 50, 60 years ago, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the Council of Europe was brought. The UN Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women has also been adopted. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has been adopted, etc. As I mentioned, last year for our country, the Republic of Serbia, was active on this issue, since the law was passed, and in early last year, in February, a Strategy on improving women's position and improving gender equality was adopted, and what may be even more significant was already adopted in 2008 by the Strategy on stimulating birth. I must reiterate my personal position that I do not like the constant adoption of various strategies, action plans, and on the ground, citizens and citizens do not feel it, because regardless of all these, both international and domestic, very important documents, a real sad picture of Serbia today that children are getting smaller, that the number of abortions in our country is very high. Last year it was almost 150,000, that women, especially women who are more educated, are becoming increasingly more and more difficult to decide to have children, that many women have to choose between developing their professional career and family obligations. The real situation is that the nation is getting old, that our nation is slowly disappearing, that certain schools are being closed, that both the financial crisis and the lack of children, whose numbers are clearly being reduced, are necessary to bring together certain departments. How can we solve these problems? First, we must take into account the circumstances of women employed and the need to ensure the protection of pregnancy first, which is a common obligation for both the states of the Republic of Serbia and the whole society. I think we should work together on this issue. More adequate, in a more appropriate way, to regulate several issues. The first question that is very burning is the right to cash compensation during maternity leave and leave due to child care. I believe this is the essence of the protection of motherhood. The Convention of which we need to discuss today and which we will confirm in a few days when voting day comes, International Labour Organization Convention number 183 assures that the monetary compensation to pregnant women is at a level that ensures that women can provide themselves and their child with adequate health conditions and a suitable standard of living. This sounds very general, but what's specifically pointed out in the Convention, which I find very significant and about which I have a certain question or suggestion, is that the amount of these fees should not be less than two-thirds of the woman's earlier and secured fee, should not be smaller, the minimum would be 66%, let's say, if we were to talk about two-thirds. We all know that in Serbia, the current situation is that it is 60%. The only one in Belgrade is 100%. Here I want to highlight a particular problem that we all, as women, MPs, government representatives, etc., should work together. The situation in Belgrade is that pregnant women get 100%. I'd also like to praise the example of Jagodina, where unemployed pregnant women get 10,000 a month in compensation. In all local self-governments, both in Vojvodina and Serbia, we should solve this problem and that indeed the appropriate material resources for these women are certainly higher. Another particular thing is the right to breast-feed, or I will try slowly in my exposure to the biggest problem of women who commit to having a child. It's discrimination at work first. They can lose their jobs as soon as they know they're pregnant and find it very difficult after a while spent at home with a child to get back to their jobs. The convention we're talking about suggests the right to breast-feed a child after going back to work, and I think that this part is very important, part of the protection of motherhood, and it is of great benefit both to the health of the mother and to the health of her child. We know that the World Health Organization has proposed, or recommended, breast-feeding babies for up to six months. More specifically, and a continuation of breast-feeding with adequate complementary food for the baby up to two years old. The 183 convention gives women the right to breast-feeding on one or more daily breaks or potentially shortened working hours for breast-feeding purposes. A concrete proposal, by talking to certain mothers who are in a similar current problem, is to provide a break of two times an hour for mothers to go physically from their workplace to give the baby and return. If they even work full-time, during the day, twice an hour is enough. Of course, the proposal is that this breast-feeding break should be considered as regular working hours and be paid accordingly. The next significant problem I would pay a little more attention to is the guarantee for pregnant women and women after childbirth, that they will never lose their job because of pregnancy. This is the basic component of the protection of motherhood. The right for a woman to return to the same job or at least to a suitable workplace with the same salary after childbirth is a very important part of their protection. I would stress here the possibility, which is very real if we think about situations in practice, what it looks like when a mother is at home with her child for up to a year, which is usually a few months, and not more than 11 months, and when she immediately returns to work, she should be offered a working relationship with incomplete working hours for these women, so on. "Part time free." Of course, our current Labour Act foresees this possibility, but again I would like to highlight a very current problem, which is that these women who are in a working relationship with incomplete working hours, if they were, because in practice the situation is such that this is impossible, or becomes pointless, precisely because when they work with incomplete working hours, taxes or taxes are paid for full-time, which makes this completely pointless and useless and this discourages employers to actually accept anyone because of their incompetence for themselves at full-time. I think that the Joint Ministry should consider this issue, since the Labour Act is not regulated and indeed, the situation on the ground I've heard on several sides, I think that this should be regulated as soon as possible, if we really want to do this to have as many babies as possible and that as many women and women as possible careerists decide to take an important step, one, two, three, maybe more children. In short, summed up all of this that I have put out so far, it is necessary to provide and secure standards in order to successfully balance between the obligations of women employed in relation to their profession, but also with regard to what is best for women to experience – motherhood. What I would like to point out on the political side is that EU member states have, of course, ratified this Convention, and the Republic of Serbia will take another step towards European integration and prove that it is really working towards harmonisation of its legal system with the EU legal system. The Republic of Serbia is also a member of the Council of Europe. As a member of the Parliamentary delegation of the Council of Europe, I attach great importance to this. I would like to stress that in several of its reports, the Council of Europe, or the Secretariat dealing with family legislation, has made several recommendations to our country that they ratify this Convention of the International Labour Organisation as soon as possible. I'm glad we're doing it now. The Convention requires Member States to take measures to ensure that motherhood is not a source of discrimination in anything, especially in employment that is a necessary condition for material resources and well-being of mothers, families and children.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38819	The time spent since the authorized representative's time is 13 minutes. Mr. Zoran Nikolic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38820	Mr. Chairman, under Article 27. You are under the obligation to take care of the order of the National Assembly. We and the MPs here in the Assembly and citizens can see that communication within the coalition does not exist, but it is not the right to talk about the agenda point that has been withdrawn. That is why I appeal, that this would not happen in the follow-up of the discussion, that we should not talk about the European Convention on Motherhood, which has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38821	If you listen carefully to what is being said here and if you read the agenda you have received, then at the point of the 2nd Joint Search on the agenda, the draft law confirming International Labour Organization Convention No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood. This is now, I mean, the sixth time I've read in the last 45 minutes. There are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so concentrate in the future, Mr. Nikolic, that when you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, there really is an injury. Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38822	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I will present the parliamentary group's position on the proposed laws. I will stay a little longer under the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance and something on the Law on Confirmation of the International Labour Organisation Convention No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood. By the way, that law wasn't withdrawn. There's someone else who's been pulled. At first, I defined myself to present three facts that characterize the current state of the social security system. I am convinced that there will be sufficient justification for the need to pass such a law, the Central Register Act. First, the current social security system produces, as I say, the deficit of the social security system. The reason for that is, among other things, an unpaid contribution. As a result, the state has a higher cost. The budget has a higher cost. The second consequence is: citizens' rights are not guaranteed until the end. Secondly, and that is the second question – the rights of individuals are not guaranteed in this area. What's worse, an individual finds out about it when it's late. On the day of arrival, the PIO finds out that there are no conditions for retirement because no contributions have been paid. The third question that I consider to be characterized by the current social security system, it's records different in different district funds. As our people say, every village has its own ear. It is led differently in PIO, health insurance and insurance in case of unemployment in the labour market, without any coordination and coordination. When we add to that a very current issue in recent months, which is the reform of the pension system that follows, it is impossible to skip this issue. So far, given the participation in the PIO Fund's budget, the main cry has been on pensioners, to blame them for having earned pensions that arise from insurance, rather than social contributions. Almost no one or very little was involved in the collection and reporting of contributions, and without that, there is no right to reform the pension system. The worst part is, we just heard the data, an estimated 180 billion dinars are not charged. So much less in the Serbian state budget. No one knows which companies yet, not to mention the individuals to whom it applies. So I think that these few questions, in my opinion, are sufficient reasons for the necessity of passing laws on the central register of compulsory social security. It's a shame that no government has proposed it so far, in order to warn it in time with even less consequences. That is why we, as a parliamentary group of SPS – JS, will give full strong support to the adoption of laws on the central register of compulsory social security. The goal that wants to achieve this actually justifies something like this. What's the point? To establish a central register, finally establish and manage a central database, which is first unique and secondly harmonised, and as such it is also in the interest of the government, the state, in the interests of the employer, in the interest of the insurance company. Why in the interest of the state? Because it will have one more effective social security system and certainly increased budget resources. Why in the interest of the employer? Because it will have a simpler system of reporting, change of application, logout, without many administrations. After all, why would the insurance company have a boyfriend? Which just a month will have information on whether or not to pay his contributions. So, simplistically speaking, everyone has a point of view and should bring it in as soon as possible. I just want to point out very briefly seven characteristic questions when it comes to the central register, or six, or seven, I want to ask my government a question. First, the characteristic of the central register is that it will establish a unique and harmonised database, which I was already talking about. Another feature is that it will ensure the integration of key players, so to speak, in this area, which is the PIO Fund, health insurance, unemployment insurance, the Tax Administration and not to add any further. In doing so, point out the daily updates of the central register, therefore, something that allows it to be unique and to be coherent and to be connected and to be very efficient. Regular monthly control, analysis and compliance of all the data of the depositor, of course, enable the insurance company to make available what I was talking about, the main issue, which is that the insurance company has monthly information on whether or not to make a contribution, and at the same time very quickly can be recorded by an unconscious employer, and not, as we had the situation, when many years passed, so that it is no longer possible to determine who these employers are, who they are, who they are. Also, an important commitment to the Tax Administration is very important, which is that in addition to the aggregate application, which makes the payment of all contributions, it undertakes to run individually for each insurance company and on every basis. So, concentrated all in one place, the obligation of all of them to deliver and the right of the user to be informed whether the contributions were paid. Of course, the introduction of a single number, as a fifth question, both on the obligor and on the insurance company that will, of course, serve all users of that data, but I think it's even more important that we establish a first step towards coming to being the only number that applies to any person in this country. Finally, when I spoke about the interests of employers, there will be no more application to the PIO Fund, the Health Insurance Fund, the Unemployment Insurance Fund, and then the change, and then the check-out, and then run from one branch to another, but a single application will be introduced to the Central Register, which includes, allows for registration, and change and check-out. So it's a big relief of rationalization when it comes to costs and work, and it concerns employers. Of course, we all remember how much, and now we are present, how many problems in the rush to fill in the M4 forms, did they turn it in, I think, I guess by the end of April or, in order to, whether they're covered, they're not, etc. In this way, as the central register is conceived, it allows, it is now his obligation, to deliver all data to the PIO Fund by February for each insurance company on all grounds. So, the very simple system that will be established, which also enables efficient collection and effective exercise of the rights of individuals and, of course, that enables the rationalisation of work in that area, facilitating employers in administration and there is no dilemma that such a question, such a concept should be absolutely supported. I have one question for the government or one call. As much as it's the mistake of previous governments that it hasn't been done so far, don't let ours get in the way of forgetting this now. I ask very specifically, I know that there are technical problems, technical opportunities to get to that – is this too much time for a three-year alignment? Is there room for this to be done more effectively? Be careful, for another three years, we'll be doing what we're supposed to be doing, by handing over to the PIO Fund or the Health Insurance Fund, but by the legal regulations that were in force. Isn't that a lot? Isn't that maybe the time you need to use to fully revive this Central Register with a concept like this? I'm giving the government a chance to very detailedly explain this question through the question of whether there's a possibility of a reduction in time or not? If not, a clear answer must be given to the public, which are the problems, which are technical possibilities, or inability to implement them. I repeat, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will give absolute support to this proposed law and thinks it should be adopted as soon as possible. I will remain brief on the proposal for a law confirming the International Labour Organisation 183 Convention on the Protection of Motherhood. This convention was adopted in 2000, and I see no reason why all this time, especially since all the rights recorded in the Convention, are already provided for by our positive regulations. I just want to keep an eye on three questions. The right of a woman to become pregnant, to become pregnant, to maintain a pregnancy, to have maternity leave, to leave for child care for up to a year is the right provided for by our Labour Act. The convention requires maternity leave to be at least 14 weeks. The recommendation requires that he be 18. We already have it by having a month at least three months at least after. So there's no reason why we shouldn't say it without talking about another thing, about another child, about a third child, etc. increase this absence to two years, etc. My government's proposal to consider another issue that this convention has tangled, which is a matter of maintaining pregnancy. The labour law says a fee is paid at least 65%. The Health Insurance Act said 65%. I propose, and given some experience that is happening in Serbia, I would like to highlight the example of Belgrade, which is headed by the coalition as well as at the level of the Republic, with the support of the LDP, which took over 23,500 payments for pregnant women up to 100% last year. It's 365 million dinars. In addition, Belgrade has taken it upon itself to give unemployed women one-time cash aid in the birth of 40,000 for the past year, about four thousand women used and 50,000 for this year. That's 250 million dinars. I want to point out, as a positive example, the example of Belgrade and all those municipalities that are trying to help these categories of citizens in these conditions of economic crisis. Of course, I am also aware that Belgrade had these financial opportunities. I'm also aware that there are municipalities that I can't, but there are those who have a political mood to do that and those who don't think about it. My proposal is for my government to think and predict that pregnancy is 100% in Serbia and simply find ways and means, and thus encourage and help this area of motherhood, protect motherhood. Pregnancy is not a disease, pregnancy is something nice, something to encourage, something to protect. I think you should think about that way that pregnancy also rises to 100%. I repeat, it's something beautiful, something noble, it's not a disease. We are committed and I want to believe that this is the case and that we are going to do it, to make a full contribution to fostering it and protecting motherhood. Third, when it comes to women's right to return to the same workplace, to women's right not to be subjected to a pregnancy test at reception, to women's right to be protected, not to be fired during pregnancy, is something that is foreseen by our positive regulations, and that is something that the government should pay attention to to ensure that this is strictly implemented. I took the opportunity to cite several of these examples, call on the government to consider increasing the compensation for pregnancy and illness during pregnancy and to give full support to this proposal for a law on the signing of International Labour Organisation No. 183 on the protection of motherhood. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of all three laws and give strong support.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38823	The time foreseen for the discussion of the authorised SPS-JS representative has been spent. The word is Mr. Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Milosavljevic, Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, the basic question is why is the Serbian Parliament or why the parliaments pass laws? All congregations in the world, including ours, should define certain problems that exist in a particular area and then be the result of the problem that exists in a particular area and offer appropriate solutions. We have one set of draft laws. The minister and all colleagues paid most attention to the central insurance register law. When we look at the text of the law and the reasoning, we should have answers in an explanation which are the problems that define this area, and in the text of the law, the proposal is that in the future we will remove all the problems that exist. When you read the argument carefully, Mr Milosavljevic, although not a resolute minister spoke about some of these things, it is said in the explanation that as far as funding is concerned, the Government took the obligation back in 2005 with a World Bank loan, on special and very favourable terms, to make a law that will allow consolidated collection and reporting in the area of social security. In view of the policy set out in the social security reform, the government has made commitments under the international agreement that involve the liberalisation of activities, in particular the first regulation until the adoption of a law establishing the Central Register, and the law constitutes the establishment of the obligation that exists and everything set up by the regulation is now to be defined and governed by the law itself. This law should, as the case may be, establish an appropriate organisational form for the establishment and management of a central database that will bring together different databases for the same user groups and introduce a central database on insurance obligations. This will ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions, reduce administration costs and allow for more efficient functioning of the social protection system. Different records of employers and insurance companies led to a number of problems, there were no unique records, there was no way to determine when who pays and that created additional problems. In addition to other measures, the government has on several occasions made decisions on the integration of internships for persons who found that there was a avoidance of the obligation to pay certain obligations. And in this system this law will fully protect all employees from unconscious employers. The existing aggregate applications will be defined differently and the whole area will be arranged, and contributions will be allowed to be not charged. A serious problem was presented, it explained, that there was no coordination between the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the National Employment Service. A commitment for all those who watch us when laws are passed to say, among other things, what the financial obligations of the state are when a new law is passed. It is then said that there are no new commitments since the budget is already foreseen for 2010 for the functioning of the central register and this is already foreseen by these commitments. Otherwise, the law is adopted by means of an urgent procedure because, in the explanation, it is necessary, given the already established policy on mandatory and social security reforms, as well as the World Bank's credit, that the whole thing be completed by 30 September 2010. We've got the law, we've got an explanation. When you carefully read the law and the reasoning, you see that there are obviously several problems in this area. One problem is, I can see from each other. not to pay contributions to PIO. The second problem is the deficit in the PIO Fund. The third problem clearly identified is non-coordination between state authorities. The fourth problem is an obligation to respect international obligations. At least four problems, quite important and quite serious, can be seen from the text of the law and from the reasoning. The state took a loan from the World Bank, has an obligation to complete the loan. Does the state have obligations to other international organisations other than the World Bank – I think so? The key to resolving Serbia's economic crisis is the IMF agreement. I have a text, a letter of intent, signed by former Governor Mr Jelasic, Finance Minister Mrs Dragutinovic and Prime Minister Mr Cvetkovic, page 5: By the end of February 2010, a law on reform of the pension system will be passed, and the overall goal of the reform is to reduce the costs of the PIO Fund's expenditure to 10% from the current 13%. Today is April 14th, so is there no Retirement System Reform Act in the procedure? Do we respect the obligation we have to the IMF – no? Are we going to cut consumption from 13% to 10%? Here in the congregation, we often talked about it. I'm sorry that Mr Ljajic has other obligations so he's not here today, but Mr Milosavljevic comes very often, so he had a chance to hear about it. My friends, Mr. Peric and Colakovic, often exchanged views on reform of the pension system with me. Now he has a 13% pension in the gross social product. When we talked about the obligation that the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to which we are often called, took to the IMF and the obligation to reduce pension expenditure from 13% to 10%, it was said – that this will not happen to some parties and some senior officials, vice-president of the government, will not allow it. We now have a statement by Mr. Krkobiæ on 12 April, which says: "We will achieve savings through reform and will reduce the level of separation from 13% to 10%" – the "Today's" list on 12 April. How could it not have been possible from 13% down to 10% a month ago, and today is possible? Is it possible that only savings in the PIO Fund can be reduced by 30%? Is it possible that the PIO Fund is so irrational? And we blame the pensioners, who, by law, went into retirement, fulfilled their basics, and now we place the main blame for the development of the Republic of Serbia on pensioners. How is it possible for Mr. Krkobic today to say that it will be reduced from 13% to 10% - I must admit that I do not know that mathematics. I've graduated from some schools, I've studied a number of mathematics. When you look at statistics in the past year, the number of employees has been reduced by 132,000, the number of pensioners has increased by 25,000, and Dragan Vukmirovic, director of the Serbian Statistical Institute, says -- that in the next 20 years, if current demographic tendencies continue, the population will be reduced by a million. How is it possible, with the minimum growth projected in the coming years from a few percent of gross social product, with a reduction in the number of employees, with an increase in pensioners, not to reduce pensions, and their share in gross social product is reduced from 13% to 10% - I can't calculate that? Today, Mr. Krkobbic, Deputy Prime Minister, acknowledges that this will be reduced from 13% to 10%, i.e. to return to the first question, the law does not respond to the fulfillment of international obligations, because we fulfil the obligation to the World Bank, but we do not fulfil the obligation to the IMF. About the non-coordination of state authorities, apparently the law indicates that there is no co-operation between state authorities. That's not news to us, of course. Every day when you open any newspaper or you look at the news, you see that there are no government ministers working together, and it's just a matter of work to be co-operated by state authorities. The fact that this law is going to change that, it doesn't say in any of the members of that law. It is certain that this law will give us information – whether someone is not paying the contribution. The fact that we're going to have information, the solution to the problem is a long way to go. Is that true? Here's a specific example - Corridor 10. Every day you will see in the papers that the state authorities are not doing their job, that there are serious problems in the realisation of Corridor 10, that the tender travels from the government's office to the rest of the ministry for hours and days, until the contract expires. People don't do their job. They call for personal responsibility and directors, and ministers, and I don't know who's doing it, but does that solve the problem? Of course not – there is still no movement on Corridor 10. Will this solve the problem of non-payment of contributions – I'm not sure? We won't see it until the next few months, since I have no doubt that the law will be passed. Has it been considered, and this is the problem when the resolution minister comes along, with all due respect to Mr Milosavljevic, because we once had the opportunity to co-operate, but he is not really in charge of the area, but is in charge of Minister Ljajic, there are other proposals and other solutions that were in circulation? For example, there is the possibility of paying a gross contribution, so that the employer comes into the bank, pays a gross salary to every employee on a special form that would be defined and that would precisely define which part of the salary goes to the employee, and which part of the salary goes to a certain percentage of certain funds, to all those bonds that the employer is obliged to pay. It would certainly solve this problem much more effectively than it was proposed by this law. The law will give us information, but it still won't solve the problem that exists. I'm just asking if that's what's been thinking. The fourth question raised by this law is the question – missing from the PIO Fund. Will this problem be solved by the future on the basis of the information we receive, which will be on the monthly level under this law, when we know who is paying and who is not paying the wages, and what are we going to do about it, that is, how will Serbia's economic policy be managed in the coming years? It's the key to filling the budget, but it's also the key to filling the PIO Fund. I think we can get an answer to that question – when we look at what Serbia's pace is in debt, which Serbia assumes in the coming years of speed that fills the Republic of Serbia's budget. For 2010, it was said that there will be slight growth, that there will be a recovery of the Serbian economy and that 2010 will be more favourable than in 2009. Even the forecasts predicted an increase in budgets, and the budget through contributions and those receipts reflects what is happening in the Republic of Serbia. There is expected to be growth in the 2010 budget of around 9-9.5%, depending on what the budget base is, compared to 2009. When we look at the result, it is predicted that the 2010 incomes will be around 660 billion, in 2009, to remind you, the revenues were 624 billion, meaning 36 billion dinars more in 2010 than in 2009. When we look at the first three months of this year, budget revenues are not more than 10%, but are less than 2.5%, so the nominal amount is lower. When you consider inflation, it's 6% -7% less than the previous year. In the first three months of 2009, which was characterized as a very crisis year, we had income of 147 billion, and this year, when we leave the crisis, in the year we solve problems, it's only 144 billion. How are we going to charge the budget if we have much less revenue now than we had a year ago, and what guarantee is that for the years to come? See how Serbia is in charge and what are the commitments it is taking. During the government's mandate, which is about 680 and the other day since the government was formed, Serbia has owed about 3m euros a day, 34 euros every second. So I'm talking about 14 minutes, Serbia is 14 minutes more in charge times 60 seconds times 34 euros, including the night, when nothing in Serbia works. What guarantee is that you will charge the PIO fund and what guarantee is that pensions will be paid? Now that we look at what we are discussing and the way the problem is being solved, it is proposed to introduce a register, and none of the problems that exist are solved. There is absolutely no idea how we're going to deal with this process, although the number of pensioners continues to increase by rate or 25 thousand a year, and the number of employees continues to decrease, not to talk about those companies that will be shut down due to bankruptcy and some other things, due to the rationalization of the state administration and all that this government is predicting. When we take all this into account, there is no guarantee that in a year we will have a stable system, in five even less, but in fact everything is being expanded for another time, for another government and for some other people who will solve this problem. That absolutely doesn't give us any confidence, and it doesn't give us any hope of getting better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38825	Fifteen minutes have been used by an authorised representative. The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38826	Dear Mr. Obradovic, I have listened very carefully to you, you have asked many questions and questions and opened them. The largest number of those is not directly related to this law. This law has absolutely reached a consensus of all relevant institutions that it is adopted as such and that it is going towards the system, towards better and more precise records, to facilitate the identification of those who do not pay their commitments, and thus towards greater discipline of financial and greater certainty and the reality of payment of commitments from the budget. With all due respect, Generally listening to you, I can think of that beautiful division of people in three groups. The first are those who see what is happening around them; the second are those who marvel at what is happening around them, and the third are those who make things happen. This government makes things happen, that the system is arranged, that it's put in order, that it contributes to the fixation of the situation, of course, by wanting all the best, but it's always possible and that this law doesn't bring about everything that we expect will happen. You, with all due respect, look at those who now look not only at and kibbutz but wonder at those who do and make things happen. I call on you to be more constructive through the debate and suggest how to make what is proposed even better advance how to get an even better and better quality law, how to meet the conditions as soon as possible, make an electronic system that will contribute to the functioning of this law before 2012 as well. In this context, I also understand the debate, and the discussion and need of everyone to get as good as possible and as high-quality the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38827	Right on the replica, MP Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38828	I have to admit, I didn't quite understand, because you obviously didn't listen very carefully. I was just talking about the problems that exist in the area, and obviously if you want to solve the problem, if you're doing something, then don't let Serbia be the only country in the world in which documentation from the government office to the ministry that's on the second floor travels long enough to break the procedure and be late. The second thing, if you've made a commitment to the World Bank, then respect the obligation to the IMF, because that's also an obligation. Of these people here, there's no need to divide us into those who think well of this country and who don't think, for the simple reason that we've been chosen by citizens. With all due respect to the government that solves problems, we're here to help solve these problems. We point to you that this law does not solve the fundamental problem, does not solve the problem of the PIO Fund, and what the Republic of Serbia has taken over, or what the Government has done on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, has taken over the international commitment, such as this law is an international obligation, that by the end of February the proposal that this problem will be resolved in the long term. To divide ourselves into those who are in one, the other or the third group will not solve the pension problem. What you're about to say is that we haven't helped solve this problem, it won't solve the problem that budget revenues are far less than they were. There was a finance minister here. Asked whether the government and the National Bank are following what is happening in Greece, the minister said it had nothing to do with us. The same question was answered by the National Bank and the governor on five closely typed sides, about what the National Bank is doing to prevent the crisis from spilling over into Serbia. So what you're doing won't solve the problem. Here, you're all right, you're absolutely right, we're not helping anything, we haven't done anything to make this law better. Is this going to help raise pensions and get paid in a year? I'm sure you don't, and you know very well that you don't. Is this going to help, instead of providing for 250 kilometers of roads in Corridor 10, to be built 47 kilometers on Corridor 10? I'm sure he won't. So we know that very well, and you and I know it. The way we're going to divide Serbia into two or three parts, as you're trying to do, will not solve a single problem. We point to a problem. You realize that this problem exists and you realize that what is proposed here solves the problem in the next X years. I didn't say this law shouldn't be passed, I'm just saying it's not a fundamental problem and it's not a priority right now, and your government is choosing priorities. Obviously, in a completely wrong way, problems in Serbia are being solved rather than deepening.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38829	The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38830	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, members of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have one law and two ratifications and I will deal with this law on the central register of compulsory social security, and my colleagues will talk more about these two ratifications. The law on the central register of compulsory social security regulates the establishment of the body and the activity of the register, as it is linked and what relations with other institutions dealing with compulsory social security are. What is characteristic of Serbia in the past, and it seems to me now, is that a significant number of unconscious employers avoid paying contributions from compulsory social security to insurance companies. These are contributions related to PIO, contributions related to health insurance and contributions related to the case of unemployment. This phenomenon has the effect that revenue in the budget is lower, and this means that the funds that are particularly available to health insurance funds and PIOs are lower. This, on the other hand, causes certain problems for people, especially those who want to retire and have met the conditions for retirement, simply have an unrelated job experience. It also causes problems that people’s work experience is not the one that is real but is smaller. Today it is common for you to have protests in Serbia. One of the frequent demands of the workers is to connect the staff. On the other hand, many workers cannot verify health books and simply cannot use those rights that follow them from compulsory health care. The state and the government of the Republic of Serbia have faced this problem many years ago, and they have tried in some ways to solve the problem. In 2005, an attempt was made to solve the problem, a problem was attempted in 2009. In 2009, this Assembly passed two laws. One law is on the release of pension and disability insurance debt, the other is on the suspension and dismissal of debt for health insurance. The state then tried to simply, in some ways, suggest to employers, if they regularly settle their obligations, that those obligations that were not settled in the past would in some way be fired, and that they would regularly settle for some three years in the next period, if I did not cheat, their obligations. I'm sure many employers have applied and will try to solve their problem that way, but I'm also sure, on the other hand, they will try to avoid those things that are defined in the law again, and it's the state that simply needs these things and sanctions. What's also very important is why these laws, I'm sure, were needed, that at a time of economic crisis you can't, after all, because something and a weak organisation and coordination of state services have avoided paying taxes, or contributing, it seems to me that the state would have to have an understanding because the economic crisis and the liquidity problem of the firm are, in some ways, allowing them to be fired, if they are zealously paid. On the other hand, many times we have been fully aware that the state itself has paid contributions that have not been settled, for the simple reason for people to retire, because it has proved that in the transition process, failed privatisations, no contributions have been paid. Simply, it is shown on the other hand that it is most often in those environments that are the poorest. From a social point of view, the state had to do it, because it's not fair to those people who made a fair pension so they couldn't retire. The application of this law in the coming period should improve particularly the insurance records. On the other hand, he needs to establish better control. It is simple that what has happened in the past, which means that these applications have not been updated, and it could have happened that someone is not paying contributions and, on the other hand, it is important that when these irregularities are observed, that system institutions can react immediately, and that means that certain employers who do not pay contributions are forced to pay, that these contributions must pay. What is also important and what is defined as the principles in this law is that the central register is an independent situation, an effective and economic institution. Independent, that means she has to have complete independence. The unique database is something that has to be true and on that side it's impossible to have any impact on the central register. On the other hand, to be efficient, this means that data must be updated daily. The software that monitors the central register will have to be very good, it will probably have to be tested long enough to be fully functional, and the hardware that's going to follow it all seems to me to be the last word of the technique, so in order for that efficiency to be enabled and obtained, we have to first have preconditions, software and hardware, and that means that people have to be trained to carry out the whole job. As far as economics is concerned, it's clear, that's what your colleagues said, that you now have several places to make certain applications and that these databases are not in line, that they can't be compared, and that all of this has resulted in what we said before, to avoid paying social contributions, and I hope that this economy, too, will mean reducing procedures, reporting in one place only, and then from the database using these data from different institutions, will lead to the whole system leading to economicity in its functioning. What's also important is organs. The authorities are the board of directors and directors. A five-member board of directors is particularly important. To be clear, these five members, the law says that no function has been paid. These five members are representatives of the Republic Fund PIO, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the National Employment Service, the Tax Administration and the Agency for Economic Registers. So these are the institutions that will directly co-operate with the central register and all the irregularities and shortcomings in the work, it seems to me that it is well defined, that they can in the governing body, which is on that board to define and, let me say the wrong side, and some things and disadvantages can be quickly eliminated. On the other hand, it is also important to say at this point, because a law on reducing the number of workers in the state administration has been passed. This means that only what exists in the central register is the service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which existed, which was also defined by the intentional withdrawal of 25 million funds under very favourable conditions. Therefore, there is no employment of new people, but only people who were in the service of the central register will now enter the central register. I don't think there's gonna be any problem. What the law also defines is the submission of a single electronic application. A single electronic application shall be submitted in one place and shall be submitted three days after the start of a working relationship or a contract of work is signed, or someone shall cease to act, or be fired. The form and content of that single application is prescribed by the government on a proposal from the ministry and will be adopted 60 days from the date of entry into force of this law. Since this will be a unique application, it is very important that more employers will not have any of the problems they have had so far, which is to go to the PIO fund’s counters, and go to the Health Insurance Fund’s counter, but will be a unique application that will be completed in one place, handed over, and then go to the Central Register, and everyone else from the central register, from the updated database can use it. This will certainly make business easier for employers, if nothing else saves time and money, and this also fits into the state strategy of reducing the state administration, reducing certain procedures related to regulations and easier operations. What also defines this law is the definition of a single number of debtors and that number must be in agreement with several parameters. One is the home number of people, the other is the pub related to the company, i.e. the business entity and the third is that it must be in line with both EU regulations and requirements, because we as a country seek the EU. Therefore, these Central Register transactions must also follow certain directives that are related to the EU's position and that number is very important, because the data defined in the central register must be protected and they can only be obtained by these system institutions or on a personal request by an insurance company who wants to verify that the contributions have been paid to him and for what time these contributions have been paid to him. What is also important and what defines this law is that, in addition to the combined tax returns that have been completed so far, individual tax returns for each taxpayer will be filled out. The tax administration is obliged to hand it over to the central registry a month later, meaning the current month for the previous month. Furthermore, a central register will run an analysis of these data and will automatically know whether the employer has paid contributions or not to all workers, for which months and on which basis. I say, where irregularities are observed, automatically from the central register these updated data can be transferred to the tax administration, and the tax administration has mechanisms to react very quickly and that all those revenues that are not paid according to social security obligations, which are legally defined, will be paid. Not only will it be good control, this will be good prevention, because I am absolutely sure when employers know every month that the state, or tax administration, or central registry knows that someone has not paid the contributions, that they will also be more zealous and try to fulfill what is defined by law. What's also defined by law, because this is a sensitive thing, data on a person, even if it's contributions, is defined as how they can be used. It is fully defined which are the obligations of the Central Register to the Tax Administration, the Tax Administration to the Central Register, or what are the obligations of the Central Register to the Health and PIO Fund, i.e. obligations and these funds to the Central Register. It's also important that anyone can look for their own personal data. They are obtained in electronic form. They can also be obtained in writing. The question is, what kind of shape do you want? What's also important, the data in the central register is permanent and cannot be deleted. They remain there permanently, and if irregularities are observed, some technical error has also been defined by law as it is being corrected and it has to be corrected at the most recent, quickest time to correct. It is also important that this law, in order for the Central Registry to start, or start working, certain preparations that are not simple and on the subject, seem to me, what I said about software and about hardware and organisations, and everything else and defined that should be started around the end of 2012, and 60 days is the signing of forms and what should contain a single application. In the meantime, there is also the obligation of the Health Insurance Fund and the PIO Fund that they will be the ones to receive these unique applications and that later, when they start the technical central register, they will transfer it to the Central Register and there will be no problem for the Central Register, perhaps that single database in the Central Register to be filled in by the data already submitted to the institutions of the system, these funds or the Central Register itself. Finally, what I expect is that the application of this law will facilitate the functioning of certain institutions of this system. It will also facilitate the business of people in the state of Serbia, i.e. employers. It will reduce costs and speed up certain procedures. It will establish a better control of budget revenues, and this means a more zealous payment of commitments by employers and those who do not implement it, so that the state can respond in a timely manner through the institutions of the system. In the end, they will reduce or, not to say, cancel those things that are currently happening in the state of Serbia, that people want to retire, and they do not have paid contributions for all years of work, or that people have fewer years of work than they have spent in work and that everyone can verify the health book for themselves and their family and that they can use the health care services that belong to them under the law. Believing that this will happen in the future in the state of Serbia, the G17 plus parliamentary group will support the law in the voting day. We expect other parliamentary groups to do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38831	A 15-minute mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used. The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have a set of laws in the field of social protection: Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Security, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Labour Organisation Convention No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood and the Third Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on Social Security. I'll talk about the proposal for a Central Register Act, and my fellow MPs about the other laws. In the light of the draft laws on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, it is stated – under the PARIP project, the consolidation of the collection and reform of the pension administration in Serbia, for which the Government took credit from the World Bank under the IDA conditions in 2005, a component dealing with the realisation, consolidated collection and reporting in the area of social security is planned and for this purpose the establishment of a central register of social contributions for employers and insurance workers. The SRS considers it too long to pass this law because the government, as we heard, took a loan from the World Bank as early as 2005, and it has been five years and it may be another two or three years before this law fully enters into force. The second remark is – why is the law passed by emergency procedure? Why have you waited five years for this law to be passed? As our people say, you bring it in a minute to 12. The deadline is for the World Bank loan money to be used by 30 September 2010. The government of the Republic of Serbia, held on 24 April 2008, adopted the first Regulation on the Central Register of Obligors for Social Insurance, and then on 27 August 2009, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a conclusion with the Information on the need for the adoption of a law governing the Central Register of Obligors for Social Insurance Contributions, the establishment and establishment of a single database on insurance and social security contributions bonds. Accordingly, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development have been given the responsibility to prepare a draft law on the Central Register, to define and determine the data from existing records necessary for the establishment of a single database and draft a unique form of reporting changes and logout for the needs of users of the single Central Register database. Two working groups have also been established. The first working group was to prepare the draft law on the Central Register, the second working group for the production of a single form and to report changes and out-of-work for health insurance, pension and disability insurance and unemployment insurance. The problem is that when such a text is proposed by the state body to another state body, or the government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it must have a slightly higher degree of responsibility. The central register of contributors to social security contributions by employers and insurance undertakings should contribute to overcoming deficiencies in the existing system of records, accounts and collection of contributions to compulsory social security. These are, firstly, inefficient and insufficient payments to the contribution of compulsory social security, secondly, the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Office, the Republic Health Insurance Office, the National Employment Service and the Tax Administration run separate databases for the same user groups without any coordination and coordination. The third problem is the absence of systemic links between the Tax Administration and mandatory social security organisations in the domain of reporting and payment control. Changes in the current social security system should cover first registration, then Database formation, three reportings and four controls. The SRS advocates the introduction of order and regulation that is effective and enforceable and that will enable the solution to such an important problem. We believe that the proposed law is more technical law, and that norms are written vaguely, inexplicably, with unclearly established standards, when it comes to terms and terms used. Due to inaccurate terms, ambiguity, the possible application of this law or possible different interpretations of the law is at stake. Thousands of companies that are yet to be privatised owe more than 800m euros. Unpaid contributions to pension, health and social security have resulted in more than 70% of strikes over the past seven years. The tax administration cannot collect those debts, as the 2006 Law on Privatisation has allowed these companies to partially or completely avoid paying tax obligations. Dispute Article 20. The privatisation law, in practice, allows companies in privatisation not to pay contributions. For companies that are in restructuring, there can be no mandatory collection procedure at all, while restructuring is ongoing, and this may take years. How will contributions be charged neatly? This is a great injustice against employers who regularly settle their obligations. The draft law will not contribute to overcoming deficiencies in the existing system of records, accounting, collection of contributions to compulsory social security. I know that the justification for the absence of certain explanations or clarifications through the very text of the law could be found in Article 3 of this Law. Article 3 refers to the principles to which the Central Register is managed in the performance of registration and conduct of a single base. The central register of compulsory social security shall be managed and governed by the principles – firstly, independence, secondly, efficiency, according to which all reported data shall be transferred without delay to a single base and thirdly, economics, according to which the registration and data transfer procedure is carried out without delay and at as little cost. Since the gentleman who was supposed to be here, Minister Ljajic is not present here and I think the debate would be adequately directed, I would ask you to respond – what do the terms "no delay" and "no delay" mean? With full respect for Mr. Minister who is present here, but I don't think you've been involved in the realization of this bill. If you cannot or do not want to answer this, there is a possibility of inaccuracies and vague legal proposals that can be a matter of abuse and manipulation. The reason for this negligence, and it could be said that there is today a set of regulations in Serbia, that every new minister and new government has all the regulations several times, so that for now there are 6,000 regulations, 5,000 interprescripts, about 2,000 with effects on the economy, 100 recommendations are in the final phase of production, and another 300 recommendations and a proposal for a regulation to stop the validity of 193 excessive sublaws. The adoption of the Central Register law is most expected to overcome a number of problems followed by a system of collection of social security contributions, given that the control of the collection of contributions is insufficiently effective. Article 16 The draft law establishes the obligation of the Tax Administration to provide the Central Registry with processed data and aggregated tax returns on the invoiced and charged social security contributions, after deduction by the employer at the monthly level by the end of the current month for the previous month for which the payment was made. The second and third positions of this law are controversial for several reasons. Serbian Parliament members are asked to adopt the law as an emergency procedure, so that the Central Registry is implemented by 30 September 2010. In the section of the Transitional and Final Provision where Article 37 is located, I quote - the provisions of Article 16(2) and Article 20(2) of this Act will apply from 1 January 2013, until the Minister in charge of Finance adopts the act referred to in Article 16(3) of this Act. The law suggests that the tax administration is obliged to start on 1 January 2013 delivering an amended summary application to the Central Register. How will it work, Mr. Minister, Central Register until then? Mr. Minister, would you like to clarify this provision to the taxpayers? I admit, I don't understand this provision, and I'm afraid you don't understand it either. Then how will the citizens of Serbia understand it? The law is not good because the proposed solutions do not provide a reliable basis for defining effective mechanisms according to the calculated and charged contributions for compulsory social security after deduction which contains data for each insurance undertaking individually. The central register shall contain data relating to the basis of the contribution, the amount of the contribution paid and the periods to which these payments relate, aggregated for each insurance undertaking on an annual basis, but only from 1 January 2013. Currently, there are about 70,000 companies and businesses in the blockade, with a total debt of 261 billion dinars, and tens of thousands of workers have no work experience. The fact is that part of employers do not pay contributions to PIO, but after a few years makes the state of money from Serbia's budget. The Serbian government on two occasions in 2005 and last year made a decision on the integration of a working position for workers, but the unconscious employers do not continue to fulfil their obligations, so that the disputed members of the law, Article 16(2) and Article 20(2), allow them to do so. The SRS considers and fears that this bill, as well as many adopted in the Assembly, will remain a dead letter on paper. As we have heard for the above reasons, the implementation of this law is problematic, so the question is whether at any time you will know who and how many contributions are paid, as well as whether someone will avoid that obligation? Article 16(3) provides for the existence of a summary tax application on the invoiced and charged contributions, as well as individual data for each insurance undertaking. Closer content and form of the tax application for invoiced and charged contributions for compulsory social security after deduction is prescribed by the Minister responsible for finance under Article 37 to 1 January 2013. Does it take more than three years for the finance minister to bring in the content and form of the tax returns on the invoiced and charged contributions to compulsory social security? All of us here know that by 2013, neither this government nor these ministers will be, so why are you making laws that you are not capable of implementing? In this way, you give false hope to the citizens of Serbia, and there will still be chaos over the accounted and unpaid contributions. It does not suit you as quickly and efficiently as possible to simplify the procedure, as this reduces the amount of work and the need for those officers you need to fire. According to official records, 730,000 unemployed people are in Serbia. On the other hand, the bigger the problem is that those who work don't get paid for months, years, and they don't get paid for neither internship nor contributions. A businessman who wants to get a application for himself and workers and one member of the family for PIO in Serbia is obliged to fill in and sign 27 forms, i.e. 52 of the paper list. The cost of applying on an annual basis is 1.5 billion dinars or 15 billion euros. Therefore, this proposed bill is good, on the one hand, because in one counter, health and social security and all other obligations will be reported in one place. Finally, the SRS considers that the proposal for a law on the central register of social security contributions, employers and insurance companies will not contribute to overcoming the lack of funding in the existing system of records, accounting and collection of contributions, in particular, will not be effective and sufficient to collect contributions. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for the proposed law, not because we oppose legislation reform, but because we believe that this law should respect certain rules and have a clear strategy to address the problem of social protection of the population. We tried to fix this bill with amendments. I would ask you, as well as the Secretary-General, to take a close look at these amendments, and that on the day we discuss in particular, we will experience that the Government accepts some amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38833	Seventeen minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38834	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly pleased to discuss today the proposal for a law on the Central Register. The formation of a central register is in fact one of the key segments of pension system reform, and pension system reform is one of the most important reforms Serbia expects in 2010. Why is this law important? The introduction of a central register, in fact a central database on social security bonds, insurance and employers will ensure more effective control of the collection of social security contributions, reduction of the costs of the administration in the area of social security and more efficient functioning of the entire social insurance system. Indeed, the existing tax laws and laws governing certain social security segments define the procedures for keeping records concerning the contributors of contributions, resulting in the fact that the same records are kept in different ways by several authorities and without any coordination, that there are necessary records that are not kept by any authority. The fact is, therefore, that today there are unequal databases, and that should be the subject of this law, therefore they are not precise enough, that more bodies keep the same records, that all this leads to complete inefficiency, more expensive social security systems and the inability to monitor and control effectively both payments and full payment controls. The passing of this law is actually in the interest of the insurance company, the citizens of Serbia, there will be better quality records of the insurance companies and simpler procedures for the exercise of rights. When we talk about the central register, there are several aspects that make him important. In fact, we're talking about reforming the pension system, one of the key reforms, as I said at the beginning, which is coming to us, which is not only about a more stable budget, in terms of the lower expenditure that the state receives for pension and disability insurance, which today is about 50%. When we talk about the central register, we are talking about introducing order into an area that brings a lot of problems, not only to the state, but to the citizens of Serbia, and that is the question of how to control and how to collect contributions. We are witnesses of major problems arising as a result of the fact that employees, i.e. Serbian citizens, had no insight, did not or did not know that they had the right to control the payment of the necessary contributions by the employer. After many years, when the employer gets into certain problems, bankruptcy and indifference, employees, or Serbian citizens, face a fact that disturbs their security, disrupts the future. We are witnessing that a large number of employers, on the other hand, are avoiding the obligation to pay contributions to compulsory social security and that individuals' rights are currently not fully protected in this regard. So far, the Serbian government has made a decision on several occasions and thus resolved the issue. In fact, it made a decision to connect the staff for persons whose employers avoided meeting that obligation. By proposed law, this is what constitutes a key provision, which will solve this problem because unconscious employers will be quickly and easily identified. The most important newspaper in the proposal for this law, in my opinion, is the obligation of regular monthly control, coordination and analysis of all data from the central register relating to social security contributions payments, as well as the notification of the Tax Administration of all irregularities at the same time, so that it can continue to act with its mechanisms. This will significantly increase the level of payment of contributions, resulting in increased budget revenues. According to the finance ministry, in fact, the Tax Administration, the total contribution debt to PIO on 31 December 2009 was over 180 billion dinars. It is also important to point out that there are contributions that cannot be charged, in accordance with the laws currently in force. It's about a sum of 53 billion dinars, and it's about certain categories of taxpayers. It is also illustrative to point out that in the event that the central register is, for example, in office this year, an improved payment of contributions for PIO has been increased by only 10%, that this year would mean less budget intervention of around 200 million dinars. A significantly higher charge effect is expected because it will better control the collection of contributions itself by the employee. In fact, what is important is that employees will be able to check whether and on what basis the employer pays the contribution, thus preventing employers from paying contributions to compulsory social security on the lowest monthly basis, and that actually employees are not familiar with it at all. The bill also provides for the introduction of a single number, as my colleagues have mentioned, to be assigned to each depositary, as well as to the insured person. The number is important because it will facilitate the exchange of data between all users of the central register and the central register itself. What is important is that it will be formulated and later used in accordance with the EU Data Protection Directive. What is crucial in the proposal for this law is that the insurance company itself will have every month information on whether the employer regularly pays him contributions, which will allow possible timely response, on the one hand, and on the other hand an effective state reaction through the mechanisms available to the Tax Administration. The proposed law will also allow employers, and this is not little, to make it possible to apply and submit payment forms more easily, because the central register will actually become and assume the registration function. Today, when the employer wants to report, he submits three different forms, i.e. three different applications on three different counters, he submits an application for PIO, a special application for health insurance and a special application for unemployment insurance, which further complicates the procedure, the procedure seems more expensive. Based on the analysis and assessment carried out by the Unit for Comprehensive Regulation Reform, due to the establishment of this one-stop shop system, it is planned that savings in the economy will be around 14.8m euros annually. The central register will allow the submission of a single application, on one counter, as well as the submission of electronic applications, which is a newspaper in this area, which is in line with the adopted strategy and action plan for the development of electronic administration in Serbia. What is also important is that all social security institutions will be connected, as the Republic Fund for PIO, the Republic Health Insurance Office, the National Employment Service, and that they will all be linked to the Tax Administration through the intermediation and through the central register. That is why we are talking about more efficient and quality data exchange, as well as coordination that will lead to improved services for users, i.e. citizens of Serbia. Therefore, the control system will be tightened, employees will have regular and accurate monthly insight into whether employers are paying them a contribution and on what basis they pay them a contribution. The tax administration will respond in time and efficiently. Employers, on the other hand, will be able to make the application and submission of payment forms simpler, the payment of contributions will be increased, resulting in increased budget revenues. Security in my opinion is a key word in the proposal for this law, legal certainty and the necessity of full confidence in it. The state is obliged to do everything to create a legal environment that enables citizens to exercise their rights more easily and efficiently, on the other hand, gives institutions mechanisms that will allow for a more efficient, more quality, more precise procedure that will make it impossible for the very situations that we are facing today. This law is indeed a step forward towards meeting this great goal of reforming the pension system, one of the key pillars of the state, a step forward towards a fully regulated society. With that in mind, I would really like to welcome not only the Ministry's efforts, but also the project team and all those institutions that led to the bill. On the other hand, I would like to inform them that Parliament, through its control function, will closely monitor the implementation of this law. The parliamentary group will certainly support this law after considering and discussing the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38835	Eight minutes and 25 seconds the time of authorised representatives has been used. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the debate, and in accordance with the order of the MPs, we are reporting for a word in a joint principled search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 21, 59 and 60. According to Article 93(4), pending the opening of the search, the following parliamentary groups submitted their application for a word in writing: the G17 parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, the SRS. The first to be registered on the list of speakers for the day is the National MP Jelena Travar-Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38836	The President-in-Office, respected representatives of the Government, respected colleagues and colleagues, without diminishing the importance of the draft law on the agenda today and on which my colleagues spoke, today I would like to focus on the proposal for a law confirming the International Labour Organisation Convention No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood. Why this convention and why confirm this convention? Because I personally believe that motherhood cannot and must not be something in which we will express our political dissents and disagreements. I would really like that in the day that we declare all my colleagues and colleagues to support and confirm this convention because this is another document that provides comprehensive protection for women in the event of pregnancy, especially the postpartum period. I would remind us of the four basic principles of the Council of Europe to improve gender equality, which are: equal treatment in the process of employment, professional training, working conditions and advancement; equal pay for equal work; special protection of pregnant women and mothers who have recently given birth and protection to self-employed people. Of course, I am aware of all the problems of this society, or at least I am familiar with the majority, but I cannot mention those positive things that we, as Parliament and all the participants in the government and civil society organisations, brought and arranged during these last years, and that is certainly the fact that in 2008, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a Strategy to encourage birth, in which the overall objective is sustainable demographic development. Certainly, in order to achieve a general goal, it is inevitably required to achieve specific goals, which is to mitigate the economic cost of raising a child, harmonising work and parenting, which is certainly one of the major problems in this society, and I believe that we will jointly address or lower it to the minimum of those things that prevent it, reducing the psychological price of motherhood, and certainly one organisation of this particular goal is to confirm this Convention, promoting the reproductive health of adolescents, combating infertility towards healthy motherhood, popular education and the activation of local self-government. I would remind us that the area of motherhood and parenting, besides the one mentioned, is defined by the Labour Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Employment and Insurance Act. I would also remind us that this Parliament has passed the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality, as well as that there is a law in the procedure on the prohibition of abuse in the workplace. I believe we will speak very quickly of this law. I would also like to remind us that within the framework of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy there is a Directorate for Gender Equality, the Directorate for Safety and Health at Work, the Sector for Family Care and Social Protection and the Inspectorate for Work. When we talk about this subject, I can't help but mention that there is an NGO implementing a project of equal opportunities for women in the area of work on the territory of the Central Bank district. I had the opportunity to attend the round table organized by the grain educational center in the municipality from which I came, which is the municipality of Zitiste. Of course, the key problems have been highlighted, both by employees and by unemployed women, the possibility used by improper employers by conditioning or by a question of parenting and motherhood. I am very aware that the Ministry is doing everything in its power, like all of us, to prevent such things. I would take this opportunity to appeal to the citizens to take advantage of what has been given by law as a possibility and to report such abuse from incorrect employers. The adoption of this Convention allows Member States to adopt measures to ensure the protection of pregnant and maternity health, i.e. the health of mothers and children, the right to breast-feed children after returning to work. What will certainly lead to certain changes is that this Convention gives women the right to one or more daily breaks or to shorten working hours for breastfeeding purposes. A break or a cut in working hours should be counted as regular working hours and paid accordingly. By confirming this Convention, we reaffirm once again that motherhood must not be a source of discrimination in employment and inclusion and the possibility of employment, i.e. the basic right to work. What I would point out as my personal attitude and what I will stand for in my future work, that not only motherhood but also parenting cannot at all be an obstacle to the basic right to work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38837	Five minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is from Ambassador Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38838	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the very beginning of this debate shows that it was not appropriate to combine these several points of the agenda into one, given that we have a rather thematic one heterogeneous debate. That's what you can tell from the current. As is known, the proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security began in 2005, and to the greatest extent the work on the law was completed in 2007. The very idea of this bill was for certain benefits to both employers and employees, as well as for the state itself, which would mean that, through the daily information on the payment of funds and contributions, this procedure is well followed. The objective was to prevent damages, i.e. the loss of funds resulting from someone’s negligence or failure to pay contributions or the inability to effectively control and to gain insight into the payment of contributions. The question arises whether such a formulated legislative proposal will fully address the accumulated problems in this area and manage to address the problem of the remaining outstanding contributions. So far, practice has shown that, according to rough estimates, the loss of this type of assets is approximately 10%. This will be illustrated by the example of pensions, which means that somewhere on an annual scale, about 150m euros are lost in pensions due to the inability to effectively control the payment of contributions. Whoever is familiar with the details of the formulation of this bill knows that one of the significant dilemmas is whether this Central Register should be part of one of the existing funds, such as the PIO Fund or be fully stand-alone. Still, he overcame the attitude to keep that part apart. It is a better solution, because then there is a possibility of better and better quality control, practically by clicking the mouse on the computer. This implies information at any time whether an employer avoids paying contributions. We all meet daily with drastic cases of protests because some employers do not settle their obligations in terms of payment of contributions. According to some estimates, about 70% of strikes are the result of what I have stated. Also, about 1,000 companies that are yet to be privatised owe about 800m euros for contributions. This legislative proposal certainly will not solve the existing problem completely, and this problem must be resolved systematically, but it will be possible to control and possibly prevent the avoidance of these commitments from being avoided in the future. The fact is that the problem of non-payment of contributions is much less present in small businesses, where these obligations are regularly settled in about 90% of cases. Serbia is not a lonely case, we have an example that Republika Srpska faces similar problems. Otherwise, the curiosity is that the PIO fund has no record even that former SFRY President Josip Broz Tito regularly paid contributions. In the legal proposal itself, the DSS has objections to Article 35, which says that, until the technical conditions for the database are met, applications will be submitted in existing funds. So there's not a word about it - when the system will be set, or when these deadlines will be fulfilled, which compromises certain transitional provisions. In this regard, the DSS Group proposed amendments - that the deadline be defined and that it be 31.12.2010, because it is a reasonable period within which tenders, procurements, etc. can be carried out. Consequently, the amendment to Article 36 is also proposed – that the deadline within which legal persons are required to meet the technical conditions has been moved from the proposed 2012 to 2011. It's really not hard, and it only involves buying one computer, so that these technical conditions are met. A government that calls itself socially responsible would have to update these things. Finally, I would like to ask a question to Mr Milosavljevic – whether the amendments and additions to the Foreign Affairs Act, which we have recently adopted, are related to the payment of health insurance for our diplomats who are abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38839	Five minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38840	Dear Mr. Lazic, I am unable to answer your questions now. I'll ask my colleagues, and we'll get you a written answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38841	The word has a folk MP Dusanka Plecevic, followed by a national MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's united debate, I will talk about the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security. This law establishes the central register of compulsory social security, as a single and harmonised database on insurance and employers, which will at the same time serve the users of data to compulsory social security organisations, the Tax Administration, the Republic Bureau of Statistics and others. In an explanation for the establishment of a central register, the Government cited several reasons for which some are understandable and justified. It is justified that this would lead to the simplification of the procedures for the adoption of applications, changes in applications, social security logouts and electronics in the central register, as you stated in the explanation. It is understandable and justified to centralise data on social security bonds, which now have major problems in the exercise of rights based on payment of contributions, only if these data from the central register are only valid in the exercise of those rights. In your explanation for the adoption of this law, you also say that the application of the law creates assumptions for a significantly more effective collection of contributions to compulsory social security, resulting in increased budget revenues. In the part of the draft law on the activity of the central register in point 7 of Article 10, it states - that it is carrying out control of data on accounted and charged contributions to compulsory social security by insurance, on all grounds at each payment. The establishment of a central register will ensure more effective control of the collection of social security contributions is completely without grounds. No member of the bill shall transfer the jurisdiction of the accounting and collection control from the Tax Administration to the Central Register. Besides, who guarantees that the data will be accurate. In criminal provisions, no one is referred to as responsible for the accuracy of the data. What happens if the insurance company, for example, has evidence of deposits that aren't recorded on his unique number because someone made a mistake? How will he be compensated for any damage, anxiety, and waste of time? The tax administration also now has records of all debtors on the basis of payment of contributions, yet it fails to perform its function and collect debts, although it has all the instruments of duress at its disposal. The lack of a central registry has no role to play here. Furthermore, in the reasons for the adoption of this law, the government says – that social security organisations keep the same records on insurance and bond, without any mutual coordination and data coordination, especially when it comes to insurance records. That is true, however, the payment of one insurance does not mean automatic payment and the other two insurances, as they are paid in different accounts, and that is again the matter of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Serbia. She has been able to provide data to social security organisations so far, that insurance companies themselves do not walk from service to service and from counter to counter. It is obvious that the Tax Administration is not up-to-date, is not professional enough for the tasks it performs, which is probably due to the employment of party personnel, various political trade and blackmail. Nor will the proponent's claim that the adoption of this law overcome a number of problems that accompany the collection of social security contributions be true. The current insufficiently effective payment control is the result of an inefficient government, divided into ministerial feeds, selective application of criminal provisions, write-offs or refinance of debt to top debtors. This is again the result of the bank's robbery privatisation of these obligor companies, then the inability to collect contributions from large system monopolies, untouchable party finance in power, etc. This is the main cause of the deficit of funds in the social security system. They are very easy to identify, and moreover, they have long been identified and rewarded for avoiding their obligations and avoiding debt to insurance companies. Small bonds, such as small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, have been paid regularly, as they are under constant surveillance by the Tax Administration. We only find out about those others when a few million-euro debt is established. Until then, they are untouchable, tax and financial control is mainly ordered. Business is mostly black. They hire workers without applying for insurance, which these people find out from the papers, only when they're responsible for being out of the reach of our legal system. A unique database was to be established long ago, and no large funds were needed to do so. It was not necessary to take a large loan from the World Bank five years ago under the PARIP project – consolidation of the collection and reform of pension administrations in Serbia, especially since we will wait another three years for this overall realization and connection of users with the Central Register database. This long deadline is one of the main objections to the bill, because the start of work of the Central Register, consisting of taking over existing data, registering changes, registering new data, can be done by the end of the current year, since social security organisations have modern systems, trained personnel, and programmes that would combine the requested data are neither complicated nor expensive. Why is it necessary to wait eight years for the realization of data collection, in addition to so many employees of experts and unemployed experts, in the era of electronics and in the 21st century? This is completely incomprehensible if it is known, for example – that for the application of the VAT system the entire economy is left with a period of one year, which you will recognise is a much more complex job than the Central Register's education. Let us just remember that it took three to five years to apply VAT in Slovenia. The government's argument that the insurance company itself will have information at the monthly level is incomplete, as Article 16 does not provide that the Tax Administration delivers data to the Central Registry at the monthly level and for a large and significant number of insurance and taxpayers, which are entrepreneurs. We have submitted an amendment to Article 16. We also have objections to the determination and assignment of so-called. a unique number. In Article 2 of point 12, you have given the interpretation of a single number as a random number assigned to the Central Register of Obligation Social Insurance for the purposes of compulsory social security to contributions and insured persons. This is contrary, however, to Article 17, where in point 3 you say, the content, the way in which you determine and assign a single number, as well as the establishment of a single number link with the home number of citizens and the tax identification number, is prescribed by the minister responsible for social policy. We have proposed a clearer and more concrete solution with the amendment. In the part of the law that speaks of the central registry authorities, you have provided for the board of directors and directors, but not who will control the work of this central register. We have also submitted amendments to some of the indiscretions, contradictions and ambiguities in the proposal, and they will be particularly explained when we speak in particular about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38843	Eight minutes of MP time was used. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, and after that, a National MP, Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38844	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm risking to live a little after my first sentence, because I see that a topic that should be very serious is becoming very boring, thanks, first of all, that we don't have a conversation that might answer what's controversial. So, the first and only real reform government was the first government of Vojislav Kostunica. Why is it reform? Because she found out all the systems where things didn't work and started reforming. One of these things, and here's evidence of what I'm saying, is the 2005 PARIP project, which concerned the consolidation of the collection and reform of the pension administration in Serbia. The $25 million money was provided, I mean the World Bank's dollars. The project was designed and started to realize this project. The objective of the project and the specific part, which was and how important, was, above all, the consolidation of the collection, the increase in the efficiency of the collection and the second part which was also very important to the level of notification of all users, therefore, and employers, insurance and state, about what is being paid, which contributes, as well as what dynamics. What is our situation today compared to that year 2005? The various tax laws, social security laws, pension insurance laws, unemployment insurance and health insurance, we have established different databases. It happens that a lot of data is exactly the same, exactly the same, but it's run the other way, so these bases are completely incomparable, they're not consistent and they can't be used and overlapped. On the other hand, in many situations, we do not have the data we need and how we need to look more seriously at some of the problems that arise in these systems. The billing control is also not effective. We lose about 10% of our income effective annually just on the basis of, say, pension insurance. So around 150m euros are lost annually, which is a lot bigger for much stronger countries than we are. In Serbia, a growing number of those who lose their jobs and health books are losing their right to health insurance. Thanks to this government and theirs and how good policy, especially I have to say this after what Mr. Minister said - they do, and we do, they promised their time in the pre-election campaign 200 thousand new jobs and they reached the number 200 thousand, but newly fired people. So, the record was reached, nearly 200,000 people lost their jobs for the government's mandate and most of them lost their medical books along the way. Employers, increasingly realizing that the state is completely incompetent, are no longer paying their contributions. You have a situation where when you look at cities, I come from Valjev, when you look at who's talking to you to help him as a MP, at least 20% of those who ask for help because they don't see what's paid in social security funds and then they have a problem when they get into a situation to ask for a pension or to ask for the possibility to be treated. I'll tell you one example from health care. I like examples because then I can support what I'm saying, which seems like a political story to you. In Serbia, around 300 euros per capita is allocated annually for health insurance. About 3.5 million Serbian citizens are being singled out and contributions are being paid. If this includes members of their families, socially endangered and unemployed, about the number of those who pay for health insurance, who have it, is six million seven hundred and eighty-six thousand three hundred thirty-three citizens. By the way, up to that number in this part of Serbia, about eight hundred thousand people don't have health insurance. You will admit, first of all, it's a huge number, and the second largest number of these people is actually from that category of extremely poor people, and today you have in the paper that 300,000 people who receive a minimumer in Serbia have no health insurance. So employers don't pay them health insurance contributions. You have one more thing that's very important. The Republic Health Insurance Department has created a search engine to control payments because it simply cannot control who pays what and how often it pays. In addition, in the two mandates of 2005 and 2009, governments tried to connect their decisions, not only tried, but also linked the internship to people and thus gave great funds to Serbian citizens, instead of employers, who were obliged to pay for it because it is their obligation to the state. It is now a momentary situation in all of this, but by establishing a central register, which is a good thing – and about 2007 the largest part of this project and the establishment of this register was over, today in 2010, so we lose 150 million each year, as we throw ourselves away, I would say – we would get a few very important things like precise insurance records. Further, effective billing control. We just don't say when we have an overview of who's paying for it, we don't say how we're going to fight, do they really pay off those who don't. Furthermore, the procedure would be simplified in the exercise of mandatory social security rights and, which is very important, and nobody mentions anywhere, would be allocated to the budget, because for all of these categories where budget insurance is not paid, it has to constantly touch and put in new fresh funds. What's the matter? So, we at the DSS have no problem commending what Mr. Lalovic did as a former minister, it's really correct and there's nothing to comment on, but what's controversial for us is in Articles 35, 36 and 37. The 35th is the member who is central, as far as we're concerned, in this law, and he's completely inconclusive to you, vague. It doesn't say anything about when it's going to be done. They can be in a year, two, five. It's simple, it doesn't say, and I guess it's in our interest, and I'm counting on you, too, so it's in your interest, as soon as possible. That is why we have made amendments to these three members, where you have extended the deadlines in 2013 and 2012. You will allow, the funds exist, the law exists, I simply don't understand why it takes three years from today to do something we can't do in half an hour. On the other hand, that $25 million figure that's being held somewhere waiting for a moment to activate and extend for another three years simply leaves the possibility of doubting that there are other reasons and that's why you don't do these things. So, for us at the DSS, the most controversial are deadlines. Gentlemen, deadlines are what we need to talk about. We'll talk about it when we talk about the amendments. You've made a set of practically laws, conventions and protocols, and you've put two more things that I don't practically know how you put here, I don't know what logic it is, I haven't been able to find it, but I've heard more speakers here lauding the decisions of some local self-government that allow women of pregnant women and young mothers to have extra resources compared to what the state has given them. Please, it's one of the cheapest and lamest demagogues I've ever heard. The state is obliged to take care of all women in this country, all pregnant women in this country. They can't be part of someone's local front, not in any way to collect points in that way. The state must take care of everyone because by doing so local self-government you have the clearest way to implement the Discrimination Act. Why is a pregnant woman from Valjev discriminated against the one from Jagodina? It's a matter of state. We have to take a stand here whether we're going to do it or not. If we don't, then no one has the right to do it, then we'll talk about it. On the other hand, this protocol on Turkey and Serbia's co-operation, it's okay, except that our standards are still much higher today than they are here in the protocol and than they are in Turkey, so I don't know what we're actually signing here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38845	Nine minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. The people of the Parliament of Jasmina Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38846	That demagogy is something when you talk, and you don't do anything, and in Jagodina, black on white is already done. No one underestimates, nor compares pregnant women who are from Jagodina or are from Valjev, simply, in Jagoda people, besides what the state can do, take care of its pregnant women. So a little concept and termology of demagogy might be more appropriate to something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38847	Milica Vojić-Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38848	I was talking about the demagogy of the state. I wasn't talking about the demagogy of local self-government. I was talking about the demagogy of the state. As long as the state in the Republic Parliament advocates that pregnant women have the right to be treated in the same way throughout the country, if that is not the case, then it is demagogy and I remain on the condition that demagogy is what the state is doing in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38849	The word has been given by the People's MP Milorad Buha, followed by MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38850	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very important and important law on the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and on social policy and social work of the Republic of Serbia. We're asking a question on behalf of the SRS - why today? Legal, economic, social, technical, technical and all other things and aspects were ready five years ago and three years ago and last year? Here, we have it today, and the real application will be only in 2013. We're asking a question of justification and inexcusability to introduce all of this. Why is it late and why are we extending the real deadline for this law? We've got international security, we've got personnel in the departments covering this area. On the other hand, we also have technical and technological readiness to keep these records. The only thing we don't have is the good will of the government to go seriously into this reform. This is reform. The employers are struggling with counters, the abundance of counters, the abundance of administration and the abundance of paper. In the modern world, in the fast conditions of life and work, of rejuvenation, the way it was organised in the Republic of Serbia is incomplete, irrational and, on the other hand, overpriced. In the social policy area, we also have a deficit in pension-inhabited insurance, both in health insurance and in the unemployed. We have to do everything to overcome at least this administrative-technical barrier standing in front of employers. We buried them with many papers in the area of finance, administration, working relations, protection at work, etc. Let's help them now this way, but as soon as possible, not in three years. Employers can't wait. In terms of liquidity, lack of quality credit, enormous over-indebtedness of the economy, etc., waiting for three years, we ask the question – which of the businesses will survive from the employers these three years? When we talk about justification, it's justified and we need to think about speeding up this process. The basic objection of the SRS is, in addition to this deadline, which you move to apply this law, a question of another state service that will be an independent legal person, which will have a board of directors and directors and workers behind it, along with existing workers in all three institutions, with existing other services that keep certain records and certain data in this area. What else is important to highlight in this law? It's about the essence and the essence of the record. Registrations must be complete and clear, transparent, available to all. The law doesn't come out. They had to be present in the past and now. They were available to the Tax Administration, but were not available to employers and workers. And today, a tax-free worker does not have the opportunity to obtain complete information on what month he was paid a single contribution. There is no possibility, or it must lose a lot of time to get that data, to go around a lot of counters, to get that information, and then what? Then what's left for him? He's left with an inspection. The inspection ends in a month or two and charges remain for the employer or a certain other procedure. The state must make an effort to resolve this non-payment procedure in another way, by an imperative legal provision. We don't have an unnamed legal provision that will make employers pay taxes and contributions. On the other hand, we have excluded certain categories of enterprises in terms of paying taxes and contributions. What companies? Privatisation companies, restructuring companies. On the other hand, we must point out to the current government not to meet the tycoons and all those involved in the privatisation process. In what way? They bought companies. These companies were only transfer companies for the transfer of certain financial transactions, money laundering and the position of these companies to take them into bankruptcy. What happens to the workers who are in these privatized enterprises? They end up on the street, with no taxes and no contributions, and then the state eventually has to allocate funds to connect the work experience because they were companies in privatisation. The State corrects the errors of tycoon, i.e. maliciously committed tycoon violations, in terms of money laundering, avoidance of the borrowing of these enterprises, privatised enterprises and, on the other hand, the failure to take action in terms of closing these enterprises and driving workers into the National Employment Service, in the end, absolutely losing their jobs. What doesn't the government do and you'd have to do? The government must now step up the credit lines in terms of overcoming the liquidity of the economy. These days we have received from the Government one activity that we should welcome – giving certain subsidies to citizens and thus helping the domestic economy, but it is a matter of purpose and activity and these credit lines, these subsidized loans, because there is a very bad practice and a devastating policy of this government, and I will try to explain it in a few sentences. It is about the credit lines that banks will provide with State subsidies and directly from the budget. Who's he gonna give it to? Only those who are currently not in charge of obtaining a credit line for certain products will be provided by domestic companies. It's devastating that it's not helping the economy, it's not helping the unemployed. It is only assistance to employees, who can withdraw those credit lines, who can be in charge. What about the unemployed, pensioners who have a small pension below 100 euros, and 450 thousand are like that? What about those categories of population that are on the verge of existence? You say there are 670,000. How are they gonna get a credit line? The most devastating thing is that budget funds will make a difference in interest towards banks. Who pays in the budget? They pay, among other things, those who do not have the right to exercise the right to a subsidized loan. They are both unemployed, and those who live on the edge of existence, and pensioners etc. With sound budget resources, we help employees, we actually help the most banks. Why? Because right now the banking system has enough resources to place them for certain purposes. The banking system has over-indebted the state and will no longer give the state credit lines. On the other hand, citizens are over-indebted, and those who work and those who do not work. The banks were at the moment when they realized they had no more to give to anyone, then they played a game with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with current authority, to play the budget, to play the whole system, and like we help the citizens of Serbia. It is not helping Serbian citizens in this way. Every active penny in the Republic of Serbia's budget should go into employment. Not this way to hire the economy, to help the citizens. This is not how we help the citizens of Serbia. We only help those who currently have the opportunity to do so, to say the least, to make one policy in which we will be able, and that is also the proposal of the banking system towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to move the border in debt from 30% of the personal income to 50%, just to over-indebted the citizens of Serbia. What exactly do we get? What does society get? He's getting an overindebted citizen. It loses resources that should target certain other types of development, and we invest in consumption. It is a very bad activity of the Republic of Serbia, I would even say it is harmful. It's harmful, because the resources that should be channelled into development, we invest in the banking system. Instead of pushing certain credit lines through the Development Fund, that in this way, we are developing our economy, we are thus allowing banks not to have their assets on account but to fertilize this system. Go back to the Central Register. Central registry, we said he was well imagined, but right now it's a question of what's going to happen in three years. We have a catastrophic position at the PIO Fund. I'm going to show you here, through a few financial indicators, what's been going on at the PIO Fund over the last few years. In 2003, the Fund totaled 146 billion; in 2006, there were 258 billion; in 2010, there were more than 460 billion. Look, we're increasing the number of pensioners, increasing the Fund, in what way? By borrowing and decommissioning from the budget. Instead of investing our budgets in the unemployed, we set them off in the PIO Fund. Yes, the pensioners deserve to get a pension, but not like this. Now look at how much it's shown in the financial indicators of the budget. In 2003, he allocated 42 billion to the budget, representing 30% of the pension fund's total funds. In 2006, 97 billion were allocated, 38%. 215 billion are scheduled for this year, representing 45% of pension funds. You see, at 30% in seven years, we've come to 45%. What's going to happen in 2011, what's going to happen in 2015? We don't have an active state policy to provide quality funding in the pension fund. On the other hand, an agreement was signed with the IMF that the pension fund's total funds, from the current 13%, would fall to 10%. How's it gonna go down? We have more pensioners every day, we keep our pension levels, because pensions are frozen. How are we gonna get that down to 10%? What are these methods? What way? How to implement the PIO reform? The government, and particularly Deputy Prime Minister Krkobibic, promised early in the year to pass laws, new laws and new reforms in PIO insurance, but the question is when we will get the law. What are those measures? Is the government thinking about it? This data I've read, in which the SRS has been showing for the past few years that it's a disaster, that it's a huge deficit that can no longer be financed from the budget, can no longer be prevented by borrowing the pension fund disaster. That's not what you're worried about. However, the whole Serbian society must discuss this and you must bring here, before this assembly, an innovative PIO insurance law, a PIO reform strategy. Without it, there is no economy, because instead of pumping funds into the economy, we pump into funds, both in pension and health insurance, and in employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38851	14 minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38852	Thank you, Mr. Buha, for contributing to today's theme. You start out well and give a good analysis, but somewhere at the end of the line, I get the impression that you're a little bit spoiling what you're doing. About the loan, these subsidies, it's true, they're given to employees. How do you lend credit to an unemployed person? How do they repay those loans? You're mixing the social function of a state that needs and needs to exist commercially. The credit is a commercial arrangement between a business bank, in this case with a state subsidy, and persons who are able to repay the credit. The one who's unemployed, he can't pay off the loan. How do we get it? That's a whole different story. It's not the purpose of these loans to help the unemployed. It is not the purpose of these loans and this segment of government policy to create new jobs. The goal is to preserve the existing. By subsidising the loan, by strengthening the demand, it helps those working in those jobs to be preserved, because citizens who take the loan, we see that interest is large, buying these money, most likely, and almost exclusively on the Serbian market, since it is from, say, 3,000 euros to several hundred thousand dinars, something that will allow some people who work to stay in jobs. It's one rational measure in a situation where we as a state have a crisis of demand. It is impossible to expect an increase in exports if domestic companies and domestic markets do not achieve economies of scale, if they do not have the realisation of products on the domestic market. You're right when you say you need to find ways and help the unemployed and help create new jobs. But it's a whole second segment of government functioning, a second part of the budget, a second part of economic measures and activities. Thank you for answering Mrs. Milic Vojić-Markovic on my behalf for one of her questions about, practically, your questions – why now? And we're wondering why just now. The law could also be proposed in 2007, 2008 and 2009. I know that the current meeting of the Ministry of Labour and Employment has been very actively involved that this law would be before the MPs today. It's been working for the past few months, and it's always better now than ever. I agree that this is a topic – why in two and a half years. They've all mentioned it for three years. It's not three years, because we're almost half this year, but that's the deadline. Some activities and shops will begin immediately, for example, in two months. It takes time in which the technical system will be established to make all of this work. This start of 2013 is the deadline for full application of all segments and all obligations undertaken by this law, and I expect colleagues to succeed in partial, minors, already in the coming months and, where they are fortunate, and I believe that this will be achieved, yes, and long before 1 January 2013, this law begins to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38853	Right on the line, People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38854	Minister, you're off to a very good start now, but in the end, the center has explained the whole system of your thoughts. In the end, you ended well. The main problem of this society is the inactivity of the state that all available funds, budgets, funds, focus on the worst side of the economic system – unemployed and employment systems. The biggest problem of the country right now is helping employees. Employees also have profits, and they have salaries etc. You don't know how much you're going to allocate from the budget. You don't know how many citizens will be able to get those loans. You don't know how many domestic companies are going to have positive effects based on credit granted to citizens right now. You don't have that information. But, you know for sure, it's also the government's decision that these funds in terms of subsidising these credit lines will be approved from the budget. That same budget is funded by the unemployed. An unemployed man who buys bread and milk in the morning pays 8% of VAT, which directly enters the budget. Where's his help? Is there a bigger problem for society employed or unemployed? If we're going to be political, we also have to look at the political side of this dimension. Let's help ours. You've overcrowded the entire state administration, the state administration of party people. Who are we helping? We're helping ours. The unemployed, those who are on the verge of misery, pensioners living at 2, 3, 5 grand, those who receive pensions from agricultural insurance, who thinks about them? You need to think about it, you need to talk about it, and you need to have active measures to help the unemployed with every dinar that stays free in the budget. There are few and this is not in any case good activity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You had to give every penny, what you had intended for these subsidies, through the Fund for Development for the unemployed, for economic operators, for old trades, etc., and you didn't do it and you don't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38855	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. The time available to the DSS parliamentary group is 10 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38856	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, at the very beginning to remove one dilemma, because you tried in your discussion to divide people into some three groups, Mr. Obradovic made it clear to you that you had no say to justify your position. Be assured that we do not share the citizens of Serbia and that we really want good for this country. Do not mind me, with all due respect, I have already called you the Minister of General Practice, which my distinguished colleague Milos Radulovic would say, you are the legend of this Parliament because you have defended the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the Law on Agriculture and Electronic Trade, even some law in the area of justice. I truly appreciate that you are following this discussion and answering the Members of the People's Parliament to the remarks they make at today's session. I was expecting Mr. Ljajic today to explain this law to us. I thought he was in a campaign in Arangelovac, but I got information that he wasn't there, and that's where he went on behalf of a certain chicken from Teleshop, who went to visit construction works in Arangelovac. Let's get back to the agenda. The government of the Republic of Serbia in April 2008 adopted a Regulation on the Central Register of Obligors for Social Insurance Contributions. The work of the Central Register, the management and all things to be provided for in this Regulation, and as a consequence of this Regulation, this law that provides for the organisations of compulsory social security to be covered by compulsory pension and disability insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance. I remind you, Mr. Minister, that an act establishing this central register, i.e. following the documents to follow this law must be passed within 60 days, but I do not know whether you are aware that certain provisions of this law will only be harmonised in 2013. First of all, I mean the provisions relating to the IRS. In light of this law, it states that the World Bank's condition for the loan to be realised by 30 September 2010. I can understand that, but it reminds me of a hit that the Models sing – Money, money, money, I just love money. But the government of the Republic of Serbia, as agreed with the IMF, was obliged in 2009 to implement a reform of the pension system. In 2008, as the DSS parliamentary group, we insisted on it, saying that the current model of pension payments is unsustainable. I remind you that from 2003 to 2008, precisely for these purposes, the payment for the PIO Fund amounted to 565 billion dinars, and you as trade minister, I'm sure you know that in the same period the revenues from privatisation amounted to 502 billion dinars. We put this out of our hands because we have to solve this problem. Due to insufficient inflows of funds, regardless of how co-workers from the PUPS comment, pensions seem to focus on social assistance, as frapantic is the fact that the proportion of pensioners over 65 years of age is only 55%. But we're going in a row. In September 2009, information appears that women only retire at 65, as in the European Union. There's Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. I want to ask if that's the gender equality we've advocated in this House. The age limit now shifts every six months, in this year for men at 64 years of age and for women at 59 years of age. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Jovan Krkobibic announced that the IMF is proposing reform of the pension system and that they are going in three directions. The first course is personnel training and this promise has been fulfilled, given that the PUPS has been appointed by the director of the "Serbian State". Another promise, a full review of the pension system, by adopting a series of legislative proposals, and none of these legal proposals have been seen so far. It's a date for the beginning of next year. It's half of April now, I don't know what the beginning of the calendar year is, when we didn't get a proposal in the fourth month for reform of the pension-inhabited system. The third promise is work to establish the Central Register. That's what we're discussing today. This law does have certain solutions that will produce certain results, but at the end of last year, the question of comparing our system with European Union legislation has been raised, so let's compare it a little bit. As part of the approximation package to the European Union, the setting of both criteria is envisaged in the future, meaning cumulatively and years of age and internship. The fact is that in the course of economic development, when it takes the path of recovery, as Mr Dinkic announces, we have already come out of the crisis, he will face a lack of labour. Mr Dragoljub Rajic of the Union of Employers provided the following data: "In the economy 5.5% of employees make up young to 30 years. In the EU, the average is 18.5%. The average age of employees is 49 years, and in the European Union 42 years. In doing so, the disastrous fact is that 300,000 young people in this country are unemployed." Some other Dragoljub, a 1930-year-old, is daily, we can hear it in a set on television, that Serbia needs young people, and I don't see that he has given his chair and his function to these young people. According to the World Bank, in 2018 there will be a third more pensioners than employees, and the average pension will drop to 22 to 23% of the average earnings. Has this country forgotten about its young working population? One of the priority objectives and conditions for further development was the change in the age structure of employees in favour of youth employment. The average age structure of employees in Serbia said that it is over 45 years, namely that exactly 49 years and this relationship, unfortunately, is most expressed in the public sector. Can you tell us how it is in the private sector? I'm sure there are big differences. Without a young workforce that is physically capable and professionally trained to do its job, there is no development of any serious economy. That is why we have the president of the party and the vice-president of the government, and his son, who is the vice-president of the party, and the vice-president of the city of Belgrade, who reform the state of Serbia, who give a chance to young people and who influence new employment. In January 2010, the new law on pension insurance of the states will save the most by reducing or abolishing the benefits of a work experience. Do the members of the MUP know that 10,000 people on this basis are going to lose their benefits? Maybe that's good or not, but I think we should introduce them to that. The first pension that future pensioners will receive is increasing compared to their average salary and according to some projections in 2020 will account for only 40% of the last earnings received compared to today's 70%. Speaking of percentages, we know it's not 70% but much lower, but we'll get there. The government working group dealing with the problem of pension-inhabited insurance has proposed a system to change pensions according to the cost of life and gross domestic product. Of course, we need economic development to design certain funding for pension payments, but it is clear that economic growth in this country, if God so, will only come in 2013 and 2014 because it is projected by 1.5% this year. The pension of Mr. Krkobiæ, who has promised 70%, is indeed a false promise, because the pension will fall and will only be brought into line with the cost of life. If there hadn't been a system or a way of calculating pensions, it would have fallen below 60% and you're aware of that, it would have been about 55%. Prime Minister Mr Djelic cited the example of Germany in February. Germany is currently a very current country with which we compare. No more breast stamps, but there is a Deutsche Telecom, and it is likely that "Dec. Gabana" will be introduced in this country, but an example of Germany where the retirement border has been moved to 67 years and is expected to comply with European standards. Can you tell us if our mothers, our fathers, will Serbian citizens retire at 67 years of age? Minister Dragutinovic says the reform also means increasing the smallest with the reduction of the largest pensions. Is that done in Serbia? Did those martyrs who receive 11-12-13 thousand pensions get an increase? Have individual colleagues who receive over 100,000 pensions reduced their pensions? The reduction in the inflow of new pensioners, the solution, according to the minister, will be achieved by increasing retirement from 53 to 58 years of life, i.e. for women from 35 to 38 years of training. Then we have the peak of insolence, on February 25th, Jovan Krkobabic says – we saved the pensioners. It's just amazing. Here's his colleagues, so I'd like to hear how they saved my father and mother, how they saved all the pensioners living in this country. Serbia's pension system is at a point of unsustainableness because funds that are full of pension funds are not enough to pay off all pensions. Now it is equivalent to 13% of gross domestic product, and according to all announcements it will be reduced to 10%. From the report written here, it was read well, which Mr. Peric told us at the beginning of the debate (President: National MP, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used. ). We have not heard how the PUPS, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, thinks it solves this problem. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38857	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38858	Dear Mr. Petkovic, I respect and appreciate your balanced and always cultural performance in parliament, and just because I respect you, allow me to give you one piece of advice, and this can also apply to all MPs. If I were a MP, I would never criticise the minister for coming to parliament, because he's changing his colleagues, because he's proud of being a law and talking to lawmakers. All I did was collegiate and solidarity that should be among the members of the government and that a colleague who can't come to the parliament's meeting should be replaced. More than ever, this topic deserves not only the Minister of Trade and Service but also all the ministers in the Government are dealing with it because this is part of a big problem that this government is trying to solve, to set up a system, to have a dubiosis that was inherited from the 1990s in a quality European way, so that my presence here today is a desire to contribute to this law being adopted as soon as possible and that we have, as soon as possible, I agree with you that 2013 is far away, but better than ever, it has been many years, and this has not been resolved, that we finally get the right record. To know which of the employers is paying, and who is not paying, that all of us who will one day, hopefully, welcome our pensions, have the opportunity and opportunity to know daily whether we have been paid taxes and contributions, and that that moment of retirement will not be painful for a large number of Serbian citizens, when faced with the situation that some employers from 10, 15, 20 or who knows how many years to pursue and collect additional papers so that their rights are hard to gain always and on every occasion achieved. I think that the interest of every MP, including the citizen of Serbia, is that as many ministers and as often as possible stay here with you and talk. It leads me in this frequent presence in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38859	Right on line, MP Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38860	Honorable Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, respected government representatives, honourable MPs, in part of the time held by the MP's group to speak of the law, and now I would like to say something about the presentation of Mr. Predator, because I do not see any buckle and connection between the register law and the "Serbian State". What's said isn't true. Secondly, as regards the mention of Krkobbiæ, we also have positive examples of social policy in general in Belgrade, and that is what everyone says, and that is the work of PUPS and Milan Krkobic, deputy mayor, along with other associates. When it comes to the laws and reforms of the country's overall social dimensions, then it cannot, as the predecessor has spoken, be cut out of context and speak only and throw out the details that need to be discussed in parliament. First of all, we have promised and this will be - the reform of the social dimensions of the state through law. One of those reform laws is today. We need to pay attention to this law. The laws that will come to parliament, I can talk about the law on PIO which has been prepared and for known reasons delayed consideration in parliament, you know that well. I gave a part of the text to my dear friend and colleague Obradovic, and you have it and the law will come after May talks with international institutions. In terms of what we promised, I can only say that, those promises we made from 2008 to today are all realised and this decline in the lowest pensions or average pensions compared to what we accepted by 52%, it is now 63.6%. Regardless of all the other claims, we can be proud of these results achieved by this government, given that the principles of social justice that it was formed upon are being realized. So, please, let's focus on this law, and I'll say something about it later in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38861	National MP Miroslav Petkovic, right to reply to the presentation of Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38862	First of all, I should refer to Mr. Colakovic's esteemed colleague. I will not say that he is my predecessor, but we have been sitting in this House for two years, so it is the basic order to know each other's names. Since we have good communication, I don't think he forgot my last name. I'm just asking you to tell me what I said in my presentation that it's not true and how you think you make your promises come true. Nothing else, just answer those two questions. What I was quoting was the statements made by your president, the Deputy Prime Minister and the people involved in the reform of the PIO. We have the right to say that we don't believe it will be implemented, and the pensioners will one day realize that it was just a promise of insane joy. Mr Milosavljevic, with all due respect, I commended that you are here today and that you have good communication with the MPs, my criticism referred to Mr Ljajic's absence as being in charge of these issues. I respect your knowledge of both the Serbian judiciary and the electronic trade, and the financials of this country, and it would be good if there were at least a dozen ministers present in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it's obvious they're doing other affairs, a campaign in Arangelovac. So don't take this personally. But if someone has been elected as minister, they need to explain to the MPs the laws of their ministry and answer the questions of the MPs, and I believe that you will try, will you succeed, we will see that at the end of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38863	National MPs Momo Colaković, with a request for replication, and MP Radojko Obradovic, with the right to replication, were reported in the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38864	Dear Mr. Petkovic, I had the intention of not replicating each other, but of telling the facts, so we'll see who's right. That's the only reason I didn't mention the last name – and I apologize in that sense. Secondly, what is not true, what has been said – what do we have to do with "Serbs? Did we appoint a director or do we do anything there in "Serbishama"? Secondly, you also presented some facts, data relating to the average pension, i.e. the average salary, which is also not accurate. I killed it and I said it with facts – they did not accept the system with 52% of the average pension, i.e. the average salary and it is now 63.6%. Also, the decline in the average pension compared to the average salary in the next period, you said it would be 40%. That's not true either. A law that will be discussed in parliament tells exactly what will happen. We insist on what we have promised - that the pension goes to 70% and we will achieve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38865	Right on line, MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38866	I have the right to a replica, since my colleague Colakovic mentioned me. It is true and known that the DSS parliamentary group and I, personally in this assembly and in Parliament, pay particular attention to an extremely important reform, which is the reform of the PIO system. It is quite clear, when you look at the number of pensioners and the number of employees and all elements related to the entire system, that this system is long-term, as it is now, unsustainable and that reforms are needed. The only thing we need to agree on, or we might agree, is that we are slowly coming to what the DSS pointed out more than a year and a half ago. And when I spoke as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I said that we pointed out that the whole idea and agreement with the IMF – to reduce the share of pensions to GDP, from the current 13% to 10%. When I first said that a year ago, people, even from your MP group, said it wouldn't be possible. I'm just saying how things are now. If the number of pensioners is increasing and the demographic image in Serbia that it has, which is what it is, I am not glad that it is, but our population from year to year is smaller than the mortality and the number of people in Serbia is decreasing. If the number of employees decreases and the number of pensioners increases, if we have a slight growth in GDP and industrial production, if we do not have new employees – how is it possible to maintain the level of pensions that exist now and from 13 to 10 to reduce the share of GDP? There's no such thing as math surgery. If it's a savings matter, why don't we schedule a session of the Assembly and see what the problems in that system are, if there's 30% of the kickbacks to see what it is? On the other hand, your party's vice-president, Mr. Milan Krkobic, says that what Minister Dinkic is doing is political luxuritism. He says, "Dinkic introduces an element – political luxuriance, because he knowingly shoots employees in the public sector, i.e. that he wants to raise their salaries just to get votes and thus destroys the system." Even warns further: "It will compromise the possibility of pensions being 10%". So not only will it be 10%, it is indicated that Dinkic is destroying the system that exists. That's all we said and nothing else. It's true that you gave me the bill and I'm happy to analyze it. What we wanted was to talk about such an important reform not only in the form of the law when it comes here, but to schedule a special session of the Assembly with the objectives of reforming the pension system and to discuss it. That's the right way the congregation works.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38867	National MP Momo Colaković – right to replica. The replica circle is closed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38868	I have no objection to Mr. Obradovic being exposed in principle, that is correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38869	Excuse me, MP, I'm asking you to re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38870	I have no objection to Mr. Obradovic's exposure, that's true in principle. We haven't been arguing here in two years, but what's been prepared as a segment of reform of the social dimensions of the state, it's a PIO. There's exactly three things we're working on here. This law is one of those reforms. The second is the Law on PIO, and the amendments and additions will be in May, and it accurately predicts how they will be pinched, from which funds, to reduce the participation of the fund in the social product from 13% to 10%. One of these savings is this law, which will ensure rationalization. Others, when it comes to the benefits of a work internship, Mr. Petkovic said something about it – yes, these are huge funds. The third segment is a matter of women's employment. Unfortunately, it is not our position to increase the employment rate, or retirement period in women, but to be pressured by certain conditions of the IMF and others, we accepted it – from 35 to 38 years old. The third dimension is the rationalization of the service, not only of the PIO, but of the whole. It is, according to current forecasts, more than 70 billion dinars. In this respect, conditions are created to ensure the IMF's request – to reduce the state's GDP from 13% to 10%.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38871	National MP Radojko Obradović – right to replication. I'm really asking you to close this circuit anyway. The theme is interesting, but let's not lose it on the agenda we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38872	As far as I'm concerned, this is where I end up, or I'll be very brief. If it's true that 30%, and for citizens to say that the PIO Fund pays about 450 billion dinars, that from 13% to 10% is going to be a decrease, if we count roughly 30%. That 30% is 120-130 billion dinars, and it is very popular deeuroisation in Serbia, which is a billion and 200 million or a billion and 300 million euros. If it is true that a billion and 300m euros can be saved by passing this law, by making savings in the administration and by making savings in the benefits of working time, then this assembly and how is there work to determine – why have these things not been done before? Why did we let pensioners get into such a situation, that the state would get into such a situation because we weren't systematically solving things? Time will show who is right – us or the PUPS parliamentary group, which you claim is the opposite. I'm saying it's absolutely impossible that there's 30% waste in that fund. There's a waste and I'm going to totally agree with you, but that's just not what I want to believe, because then a completely different light puts it on all the perspectives that we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38873	The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, followed by a folk envoy, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to start by saying a few very important things about the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security. After the adoption of this bill, Serbia will have another public service, whose work will be financed from the Republic budget, which is also referred to by Article 5 of this bill, which says the funds to carry out the central register are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in the section of the Ministry of Social Policy. I note also that the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia in Section 3 – Government, Chapter 3.15 – provides for a budget of 21 million 740 000 dinars for the work of the central register to contribute to the social security of employers and insurance companies. Otherwise, the Central Register of whose establishment we're talking about today will be the legal follower of the register I just mentioned. This is defined by the provisions of Article 33. It's a bill of law. The newly formed registry will assume the rights, obligations, jobs, equipment, means of work, as well as employees of its predecessor. By the way, we had the opportunity to hear from my distinguished colleague Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic that for the reform project of the pension system Serbia received from the World Bank an interest-free 25m-dollar loan, and most of this amount is intended for the Central Register. The loan was granted in 2005, however, funds from the World Bank's account were not withdrawn, resulting in fines of $150,000. You get a loan without interest, and instead of being used, a penalty is paid. The deadline for these funds to be used and the register to start working is in September of this year. In 2008, the government adopted the Central Register Regulation, and the institution's director was appointed in early 2009. Now the law is passed, which means with this job done, in the style of this government, it's done at the last minute. The intention is to reduce the costs of the administration in the area of social security and to function more effectively in the social security system when adopting this bill. It also highlights the intention to improve the payment of contributions to the PIO Fund and facilitates the collection of papers on retirement, as this procedure will end in one place. With regard to the cost reduction, I want to present one very interesting piece of information. Recommendations on the establishment of the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance have been made by a number of entities, including the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade, the Association of Accountants of Accounting agencies, some NGOs and independent actions. In an explanation supporting the establishment of a register as a one-stop shop system for the registration and check-out of employees on compulsory social security, the estimated savings are listed. According to their claims, the economy would save at least 1.551,650,000 dinars or around 15,500,000 euros annually. If we take into account that the World Bank loan was granted, as we have already said, in 2005, and now in 2010, it is clear that we should multiply this amount by five. In dinars, it is 7,758,250,000 and expressed in the euro currency, 77,500,000 euros. That is the amount damaged by the Republic of Serbia's budget, and we should add $150,000 to that. In the rest of my time, I will talk about the draft law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood. This convention was adopted on 15 June 2000 in Geneva. It is now 2010, which means that after 10 years Serbia decided to ratify it. In January 2008, Serbia adopted a strategy to encourage birth. As strategic objectives in this area, standards established by the 183 Convention are set and the Convention itself is today confirmed. There's been a change of order here. Perhaps even now you would not have done so if it were not another step for this government in the process of harmonising the rules of the Republic of Serbia with EU regulations and that the Secretariat of the Council of Europe for Family Law Affairs did not make a strong recommendation for Serbia to ratify this Convention. What is of paramount importance to the SRS is whether, after confirming this convention, we can expect to see the health insurance laws changed in a short time? It is stated in the reason that the Convention provides for a right to a conditional leave in case of disease, complications or risks of complications that may arise from pregnancy. This right is not used by many employed women because of a difficult financial situation, but every day they go to work, even in a more advanced pregnancy and fulfil all work tasks. One of the key reasons why they choose not to use sick leave is the reduction of salary, since only 65% of the personal income is paid during such a justified absence. What should never have happened in any case was that an employed woman in the course of gravity receives 65% of the salary. Prior to the adoption of this Health Insurance Law, profit benefits during the temporary prevention of pregnancy were 100% earnings, which lasted until the end of 2005, when the new law was reduced to 65%. The absence from work due to pregnancy is equal to the absence of sneezing. It's the biggest blow for women who planned to have children. And I'm a mother myself, and I'm sure whoever initiated this bill doesn't even know what morning sickness is, or fainting, and how difficult it is, and how much more difficult it is, as the rest of the more difficult problems that follow this condition. Even if they knew, the only thing that the creators of this law managed is the savings that can be made on pregnant women. I'm talking about changing the 2005 law and reducing it to 65%. That's inadmissible. Recently, from the local budget of the city of Belgrade, women who expect a child are replaced by those 35% to the full amount of profits. Some similar hints were still in a city, but the question is, what about women in the rest of Serbia, women living inside, where local self-government units really don't have the opportunity to secure these kind of givings? Isn't this a classic example of discrimination? The characteristic of this government is that it advocates equal chances for everyone. I will remind you of some statements by Minister Ljajic after visiting certain municipalities during last 2009. The minister then said the state of the Serbian south is alarming. I'll quote what else he said: "My impression is depressing, the situation is such that we should all be concerned, to say the least. As a result of demographic discharge, there is a danger that these municipalities will completely relax in a few years. In almost all these cities, the economy stands, and privatisation has been failed. In the White Palanca, Meroshini, Doljevac and Leban, the number of employees is lower than those who do not work. The situation in southern Serbia in economic and social terms is more than worrying. The state must take the necessary measures to mitigate the consequences of the crisis. The most difficult situation is in Crno Trava, Merošini and Babušnica, although it would be easier to count places and municipalities where the situation is good." These are the words of Mr Ljajic last year. Also, a very negative thing was done in December of last 2009 when amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act were made to families with children. Namely, a period has changed since the impact on the right to compensation during maternity leave, the absence from work for child care and the absence from work for special care of the child. This was done with the reason that a large number of employers reportedly have been spotted who are unjustly increasing the income of only an employed pregnant woman in a period that has been influenced by the exercise of this right, i.e. in four months preceding the month of maternity leave. At four, this deadline has been extended to 12 months. On behalf of the SRS and in the form of a parliamentary question, I asked the competent authorities to determine where the employers identified these irregularities and whether they were sanctioned because they could not, if such phenomena were indeed seen in some individuals, suffer all pregnant workers. I didn't get an answer until today. The measures that have been taken, which I have just mentioned, are not only unstimulative in the fight against white plague, but are indeed anti-populational, and what is the situation in Serbia and when we talk about birth is well known. Now I'm going to make some facts that aren't pleasant at all. From the village of Vukojevci to Kursumlia, the last resident moved out three years ago. The Vukojevci are unfortunately not the only village without residents in Serbia today, as 1,060 Serbian settlements have been shut down for the past ten years. Serbs in Serbia are slowly but surely dying and disappearing, say experts in demographic movements. At the birth rate, Serbia is the last place in Europe. This year, in 150 settlements, no renewals have been recorded. The number of children per couple is reduced to 0.81. In 2008, 30,000 babies were born in Serbia less than needed for a simple reproductive replacement of the population. These are all data from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In addition, about 200,000 deliberate terminations of pregnancy are made annually in Serbia. When we consider all this, it is normal to ask ourselves, is it possible that the Serbian government has decided to save in the budget by saving on pregnant women? The government of the Republic of Serbia has established eight programmes for increased childbearing in 2009, but because of the economic crisis, it will have to be delayed for better times, Ljajic said since last year. I think this is the kind of attitude that defeats all of our society and doesn't lead the right way. In the end, I think at least this opportunity should be mentioned by women who have the courage to have children and are not employed. Unfortunately, employment has become a privilege in Serbia, especially in recent years. These future mothers can exercise the right to a parental supplement, but these funds are relative to the needs of the family when a child is born insufficiently. Finally, I would also like to express my hope that there will soon be proposals before the MPs to amend the laws that are regulated and the right to make full compensation in the care of pregnant women and to amend other provisions that will be in the interest of giving birth to children and act in a stimulating manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38875	Fourteen minutes have been used by the MP's group. The word has been made by MP Petar Jojic, time available to the SRS parliamentary group for 30 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Madam of the Ministry, Mr. Minister, I send a greeting on your behalf from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I would like to say to the citizens of Serbia that this greeting from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is sent by this generous, cheerful government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the proposal for a law on the Central Register from a legal and technical point of view is concerned, I have a number of objections. I'm very sorry that I won't be able to analyze and interpret these 40 members in detail because there's very little time. Mr. Minister, you are late, and the previous government and your government are late to pass a law that will ensure the constitutional rights of our citizens, and above all those who expect the state to provide them with administrative, health, social and constitutional protection. The constitutional category is, among other things, classified in the basic principles of constitutional, and is actually regulatory in Article. 68, 69, 70 and, of course, Article 97, which falls within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, you've been in the government for a long time, this is your third term, do you know how many thousands of court proceedings are being conducted in front of basic, or former municipal courts, right in this area of law, when it comes to contributing, pension, social and disability insurance payments? Then we ask ourselves why the citizens are dissatisfied, and then they complain that they are dissatisfied with the lack of justice, which is not true. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not want to sanction those frauds, falsants and mobsters who took workers under the labour contract, set up a working relationship and at all times, a permanent working relationship, but that they had not paid those taxes for years relating to employment, social and pension insurance. Now you have tens of thousands of executive judgments brought by the courts without citizens being able to exercise their rights. Why? Because the government also delayed the government's current democratic power, which in 2000 came to this Serbia, which promised citizens that it would solve a number of problems, primarily the social category. Here we are in 2010. How can you, Mr. Minister, look into the eyes of workers, hundreds of thousands of workers have been out of work and on the streets, whose factories have been sold out, occupied, robbed, and workers who have been creating national wealth for decades now have come to Serbia, the tycoons, which I see you've been starting and arresting lately. There is a big problem – what are you doing selectively? Why don't you arrest those ten thugs, mobsters, criminals and robbers who are holding the capital of Serbia right now, and capital, and property, and the torment and sweat of our workers? They need to be arrested. With legal and technical and normative-material rights, I have to draw your attention, whether you did this on purpose or not, but I have the right to suspect that here in criminal provisions you've provided for categories and qualifications as a violation, why isn't it a crime? Why wouldn't that employer who exploited the worker, harass him, blackmail him, go to jail for failing to meet his obligations to the workers, and there are tens and tens of thousands in Serbia? That's where you were wrong. I have to tell you, as a man who's been practicing law for almost 40 years, I'm familiar with all the rights, including this branch of law, if you want sanctions, if you want to apply the standard, gentlemen of the government, then you have to prescribe sanctions, but at the same time that the law has to be applicable and not applied selectively. We recently had that the state auditor revealed a number of irregularities in some ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia in the use of budget funds. You signed this as a violation, and until your arrival, until 2000, in the basic Criminal Code of the SRJ and the former SFRJ, it was a felony. Now someone can spend a hundred million non-intentional in the budget, so taxpayers' money, Serbian citizens, and be responsible for a maximum penalty violation of up to 50,000 dinars. I don't think this is right and that it's right for all Serbian citizens, but primarily to apply sanctions to those who break the law and violate the RS Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Mr. Chairman, have passed through this Serbia by many armies, many rulers, princes, kings, emperors, many merchants and craftsmen, poets and painters, musicians and actors, schmekers and charmers, goldborgs, dunces, squishy and mangoons, however, from Romans to today, Serbia has not had what it has today. You, Mr. Minister, I hope you understand. This does not apply to you, not to fellow MPs, to the vice presidents of the Assembly, but to those thieves, thieves and criminals who robbed the people of Serbia. I was happy to hear that you started arresting the main organizers of the most serious and complex crime in Serbia. But, Mr. Minister, I need to draw your attention to you, tell the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to bypass the accomplices. You must know, the ex-wife's marriage knew which criminal had blood cells. I have no doubt that our BIA and M.O.P. know that as well today. I see you've given the green light to the law enforcement authorities, which brings joy to the citizens of Serbia, but you have to be accounted for, because the crime is of deep roots. Don't even spare your ranks, thus proving to the citizens of Serbia that you are one righteous, just government, moral and that you want all citizens to be before the Constitution and legal. There's no others. Everything sells in Serbia, Mr. Minister. This has to do with this law, because a large number of workers and poor people have been disproved because no proper law has been passed that regulates this matter. Unreal and immorally, we are in debt at the expense of future generations. A group of modest expertise appeared in Serbia, and now they're just looking at how to hold on to power and preserve their chair. They look more at that chair and they prefer to come to the bureaucratic office than to go to their mother's grave. Everything works, ladies and gentlemen, from today to tomorrow. Everything sells what can be sold. There is no awareness of the seriousness of the crisis, duties abroad serve to cover the gaps in the budget. Most of that money actually goes into tycoon pockets. Here's your support. The SRS is to deal with tycoons, but not this quietly, undetectedly, but it must be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, or the next days and weeks, that 50 tycoons holding the capital of Serbia have been arrested and have robbed the people of the Republic of Serbia. You know, Mr. Minister, that 40% of the revenue from exporting goods and services goes to cover the external debt, which is why Serbia is in a serious debt crisis. In this year we enter with two billion and three hundred million euros of the debt, and in the same year we enter and owe, we will have to pay another 3.5 billion by the end of the year. Some politicians in Serbia are migrating people with stories that we have come out of the economic crisis. The government is not interested in Serbia's poverty. There's a lot of poverty in Serbia. The government doesn't care about unemployment. Instead, officials just rag holes. They are in debt wherever they can and spend money on selling factories and businesses that Serbian workers of course built, and are not tycoons and are not some bureaucrats. You remember, Mr. Minister, that in 2004, this government promised to acquire and obtain EU candidate status in 2004 and to become members in 2010. Mr. Minister, you have just, in a previous presentation as you spoke to the MPs, pointed out some three groups, three categories of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. I will tell you from my point of view, as a People's MP and as far as I can see, that in Serbia really live citizens in different social systems. The first system is communism. It is home to those who have taken over power in Serbia and occupied in ministries and agencies, directorates and public enterprises. They have their own needs, and they're working towards their capabilities. It's a characteristic of communism. The most important thing is that they don't make a single penny of new value. They work in warm offices. Their work space is provided free of charge. Comfortable and equipped with state-of-the-art furniture and state-of-the-art technique. They have a warm meal, past work fees, transportation being received on time, which one can do, as you know, in some institutions of this state ten officials. This power is formed on the feudal system. Regardless of their expertise and honesty, they think that the people chose them to rule in the name of the people and the people. They are only in fact fighting and have chosen for themselves to live better in communism, thanks to the fact that they are members of some unfortunately political parties who have been in power and who have been today. What's the category and other class? Other groups are those living in Serbia in capitalism, but there are fewer. It's mostly those who allegedly made their hard work out of nothing to make a fortune. They're the tycoons, the thieves and the bastards you have to arrest. It should be said that the communist government has helped them a little. I believe you'll agree, because she wanted there to be rich people in Serbia and to prove that they're for a system where roses bloom, as one Chinese says. In slavery, who lives in Serbia who belongs to the slave category? The majority of our citizens live in slavery, and they are not called slaves but citizens with the right to vote. Imagine, when this is added to them – citizens with the right to vote, it sounds so nice, and that poor guy doesn't have the bread to eat. There were false promises, Mr. Minister, you'll agree and I believe you disagreed, that some of the RS government promised the citizens that there would be 500,000 to hire, that they would give thousands of euros for free action, that they would build a factory of "full" in Kragujevac. I want to tell you now, and I already said that once, and I have to repeat, this government, the government, looks like "full." It is tailored into the EU, but it is here. That's what I'm looking at, what the "full" looks like, the Kragujevac, and you see how the dust rises and the workers whine, what that "full" does to them, the devil takes it from Serbia. Do you remember any favourable loans? Do you see what people are saying now? Citizens don't know where they're going with these loans? How to pay them off, especially when there was an increase in the value of the euro? How are they gonna get back if they don't have a paycheck if they lose their jobs? How will these poor people repay their debts, and how will your strong, promised apartments be built and how will farmers receive favourable loans? Remember, Mr. Minister, there was a huge crime in the agrarian, a thief? The government didn't want to control thieves who usurped and occupied agricultural combinations and cooperatives and state land. Following our insistence in the Serbian Parliament, the government has taken appropriate measures and you have ordered that criminal proceedings must be initiated in the government, but some remain in debt to tens of millions of euros because someone has not controlled, which is the Ministry of Finance. So these slaves pay taxes, pay taxes, taxes and other taxes, especially large utility services. I have to tell you -- if you'd come to Panchev now to carry out a budget inspection of public utility companies, I'm telling you, you wouldn't leave Panchev, I'm confident without 20 of them so they won't be arrested. Do you know what they do to the Pancians who now rule? DS, DSS and NS, only an increase in municipal services and where 100 workers worked today for 350, as they came, and six council members from one smaller party are now blackmailing DS and building power, and holding over 50% of the government in Pancheva six committees. The SRS has 24, the DS has 25, but those six councilmen are blackmailing the government and we've had a scandal in Panchev, they can't agree, the blocked work of parliament, the deputy mayor's car was blown up, burned down, that's what one of the criminals did, and I hope that's what our police will find out. So, slaves sometimes work in black, now we've come here where they are. Mr. Minister, they're working on black somewhere, but they haven't paid social and pension insurance. They are not ready to give birth to children, expand their family, and thus carry out an extended reproduction of slaves. Imagine what can happen one day, those who live in communism and capitalism, and that in Serbia is present, if they were left without slaves, who would vote for that power? The slaves should also work to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia, of course, it is tragic that the rich cannot live without these slaves because someone has to work and vote for power, and the most tragic thing is that the government sometimes has to call elections and animated slaves to vote for them. It's a painting and an opportunity for Serbs in Serbia. Mr. Minister, what is very important is that you must go to the government every day that all ministers must have a status and an opportunity in the Republic of Serbia. Here, let's say some data for 2009. Gross domestic product is lower by 3%, equipment imports are lower by 40% and repromated by 16%. Gross investment is less than 25%, industrial production is down 12%, trade large and small by 12%. The amount of construction work has been reduced by 30%, and I believe it's even higher. You, see, sit in a government where ministers promise to legalize under favourable conditions for the construction of our fellow citizens. However, the government has not developed criteria that cities must have the same statistical data and the number of citizens to make criteria for that legalisation to be more favourable for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But someone remembered, let's pass the law, let's scare the citizens because we're going to tear down their houses, and they're going to tear down one 300 thousand objects. You know who would dare? Just a crazy, crazy government, and you're not, you'd dare to destroy the citizens of 300,000 buildings. That doesn't make sense. What is it now? Once again one deception and fraud, because that is – let's take advantage of the opportunity while we are in power, let's charge for the legalisation of one good part of the funds, but let's go to the budget. However, if we are to cut the budget, Mr. Minister, 25 ministries and 111 agencies and funds have to be cut apart, then there are improvements and standards, factories have to be opened, businesses must be done, if two businesses are sold to create one, to hire workers. Our children don't have to despair waiting for work and bread for them. What's their perspective? You know very well that the chaotic state and gives the crisis in Serbia is extremely difficult and that we have a million, those who speak, statisticians, 700 or 500 thousand, I say there are more than a million unemployed. They don't know where they're going. The man came to me the other day and said, "Please, I don't have to give my kid 30 dinars that go to school to buy a muffin." What kind of state do we live in Serbia? Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, you've been well informed about this, the area sown with wheat since World War II has never been less than in 1990, to which many are called and criticized by that former government. The foreign debt is big, so I don't count. But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, tell the government that the security of the citizens is very complex and that it is compromised. I'll just remind you of what's going on in Arangelovac these days. Unknown hoodlums and mobsters, who are those ringleaders, must establish, who beat up citizens there, who terrorise citizens, who pressure citizens to vote for them in the local elections to be held in Arangelovac on 25 April 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, I've visited some villages in the municipality of Arangelovec, and on that occasion, I've come to the house of a host who has seven children living in unbearable conditions. In that part of Serbia, in Šumadia, where we have a rich country, where we have rich pastures, where we have conditions for the development of agriculture, but what we will do, in that municipality, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will remember now that you have a shadow of ministers and run around with black cars and visit villages, but at the same time I have to tell you, there is already a shortage of those bags on the market, so they have now ordered additional production. And secondly, the question now arises, there are those who terrorise the citizens and who promise sheep and cows, barren cows and barren sheep, please, Mr. Minister, take some steps to keep those liars, con men, those citizens and the Arangelite voters from among them from believing even when they have the most beautiful and expensive gifts because they are the con men who want to come to power, they are not interested in the poor, they are not interested in the citizens. It can't be allowed there. This government is in the interest of citizens to have peace, but that citizens of the municipality of Arangelovac in the area of agriculture, in the area of employment, in the area of health, in the area of the social sphere must be helped, but not only by the Arangelovac, but also by other cities. What's characteristic and symptomatic now? The government and ministers will remember, and now Mr Ljajic, did not come today, you, Mr Minister, are regular and you are coming, Rasim Ljajic was supposed to come today to defend this law, along with you, but where are capital investments? Why isn't the Arangelian municipality being helped? If you give it, you'll give it now. It is transparent and visible that this goes with the intention and purpose of tricking voters, to promise them to pave the street by the polling station. Let's not do that. Let's go to all the municipalities. Now there will be an opportunity to make sure that ten ministers will go to Arangelovac, and everyone will promise that they will pave the way for villages, that they will give them cheaper oil, and there is no oil there, because they have nothing to do with it, and they have nothing to do with it, they have nothing to buy repromatter from, that I'm not talking about other prices. I ask the Ministry of Capital Investment to make more accounts evenly, not only when the elections are in one municipality. I mean, there were elections in Kovin. 30 government officials arrive with ministers. They came and paved the streets on Sunday, the day of the election, next to the polling stations. I think that time is out of line. I heard from the DS that we citizens can't lie. Gentlemen Democrats, those who have gone down, the batins have gone, these tycoon profiteers cannot go unpunished, they cannot deal with all the parties in that municipality. That's inadmissible. Where is democracy? Where are the democratic elections that the state and government must secure? So we can't accept the situation in which Serbia is. I went to the village of Ranilovich. There are seven children in that village. Why don't someone go there and give the family a "medederian" because some in the Ojacs shared "mederacs", but these citizens should, especially this host who has seven children and eight on the road, before his wife's birth, go away, adapt the house, provide water and access to the road so that those children as citizens of the Republic of Serbia can enjoy the same rights as everyone else. Allow me, Mr. Chairman, don't mind me, you're primarily an objective and professional man. Minister, we have spoken here several times and you are a rare minister who comes and answers parliamentary questions, but answers roughly realistically, unlike some who only talk casually. I call upon the citizens of Arangelovec and ask them to go to Sunday's elections... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38877	Mr. Jojic, I thank you for the inspired presentation, but this is a marketing that is not appropriate. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr Momo Colaković, president of the PUPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38878	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers and representatives of the Government, honourable MPs, I will not use much time as a parliamentary group, but I would like to say a few sentences in favour of the presentation of our representative of the parliamentary group that spoke at the outset. In fact, the PUPS insists on achieving social reforms in the country as a whole within the ruling coalition and in particular in achieving the principle of social justice that the government has established when it is established and formed. In this respect, we will endure particularly on these issues that are important to the poorest parts of our society. As part of that, a huge number of pensioners. I'm not going to talk about these issues that are related to PIO because we're going to have a chance to talk about it in May, and I've said something in particular in the replicas of the honourable MPs. What I'm saying is that we're going to achieve what's related to the Central Register Act. He's one of the key laws that needs to put order into what I'm talking about, and that's the issue of reforming the social dimensions of the state. In particular, I would like to highlight the efforts of the honourable Parliament of Vidinovic, who has given support to this law. I would also like to say that there are other laws that we have adopted in Parliament, especially the law on bankruptcy, which provides for the payment of claims. Someone here said it's a lost cause, those debts that are bankrupt companies that remain committed to the state, and that's in the priorities of the payment of the bankruptcy. The second thing that was here, I think the arguments that the MPs made are in favour of the adoption of the law, and I expect them to vote for this law. In particular, I would like to point out that, according to our assessment of PUPS and MP groups, we believe that this law provides security in payments to current generations of pensioners, but not only that but also ensures the security of acquired rights, or those rights that will be acquired by future generations of pensioners. That is why our parliamentary group will contribute in particular when considering, and especially in the voting day, to support and vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38879	The word is by Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38880	Thank you to all the MPs who have contributed to their discussions to the debate on this bill being constructive. I believe that's the way it's going to be the day the amendments are submitted. There are no laws or acts that can't be at least a little better than what's been proposed, so that everything that's good and useful has no reason not to be incorporated into the text of this law. Let me just have a few reviews on the discussion of the distinguished MP Mr. Jojic. I listened very carefully and wrote down a lot of things. I have three things left not clear enough, so I don't want to cause any special replicas, here, and three very short observations. First, I am pleased that you welcome the determined fight of the Government of the Republic of Serbia against organised crime, against all those who have sinned against the law and I assure you that will be the case. All those who deserve to be in prison will find themselves. There are no privileged, no matter what parties or policies they come from. I didn't understand exactly who you meant when you said that some businessmen, as you say, should be arrested, not arrested for some reason. If you know who they are, help. Second question regarding the situation in Panchev, you said that some small committee group was blackmailing the government in Pancheva, that DS was 25, SRS 24. What do you suggest? Some new coalition? What do we do? Third, about the Arangelo. I understood everything, and I didn't understand what kind of bag of missing persons, and what are those bags for?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38881	The word is from Ambassador Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38882	Mr. Minister, as far as these tycoons are concerned, I don't need to name them. That's what you ask the department of the internal affairs, the prosecution and the court. A large number of these tycoons holding Serbia's capital in their hands, and you need to see if they have any basis and policy benefits? Do you know how many companies, Mr. Minister, are sold for free? Today I received an answer to the parliamentary question, where I asked that my government be ruled over my competent portfolio, i.e. Privatisation agencies, provide information on how many enterprises in Pancheva have been sold, went bankrupt and at what price the company has sold, and whether the obligations of the contract have been met by customers and current owners. You know, if there's a review going on right now, I guarantee there's no more than 20% of pure privatisations, and all other contracts should be terminated, the privatisation will be cancelled. The SRS is seeking to pass a law not on the confiscation of property from these known criminals, but on these hidden ones. They're not even hidden, they're visible at every turn. From the Avala Tower you will see the one in Subotica or Novi Sad or Užica. Therefore, they are not invisible. That's why the law needs to be passed to confiscate property from these thieves, which is even funded by some political parties. There's a problem. They expect these political parties to come to power in the event of early elections and protect them, so they can hide behind them. As for the committee group in Panchev, I must tell you that we need to overcome the relationship we had between political parties. Because what would be a miracle if the Democratic Party and the SRS in Panchev could form power? The DS has 25 committees, but the SRS has 24. It's now your full capacity of 70 councilmen. But you have six DSS and six NS board members in Panchev, and now you see who is threatening and blackmailing DS in Panchev, and see how local self-government works. The citizens of Pancheva are indeed left to the mercy of five-six councilmen who hold power.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38883	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. We got it. Politics is the art of possible and impossible. So anything is possible, and so is what was impossible. Mr. Minister, and let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38884	I want to thank you for your answers. We'll consider this offer for Pancheva. Well, you'll have to work out a little more, and then we'll see. (Petar Jojic, from the place: We are at your disposal, because we are interested in it anyway. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-14-0.u38885	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Labour Organisation Convention No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on Social Security. We will continue tomorrow, on Thursday, April 15, 2010 at 10.00 hours with a joint principle and uniform search of the proposals of the law from the point. From the 22nd to the 30th agenda. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Given that the Government of the Republic of Serbia today declared today a day of mourning for the tragic death of President Leh Kachinjski and other high-ranking state officials and citizens of Poland in a plane crash at Smolenska, please pay our respects to the dead in a minute of silence. A minute of silence. (Laughter) Praise them. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MEPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, so there are conditions for continuing work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Free Maras, who is otherwise authorized on behalf of his parliamentary group. Here you go.
