ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41258	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 166 MPs attend the session. To determine the exact number of persons present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that by applying the electronic system in the hall, 117 MPs are present, i.e. more than one third are present and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Esad Juddjevic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, I called for the meeting to be attended by Prof. Dr. Irina Reljin, Assistant Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, Slobodan Marković, special adviser to the Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, Stefan Lazarevic, adviser to the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, which I welcome. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall inform you that I have convened this session, exceptionally, for Monday, as well as within a shorter period than set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need for the National Assembly, to respect the reasons for the urgent procedure, as soon as possible, to consider the proposals for acts in the agenda set out in the request of the Government to hold an extraordinary session. With a call from the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, which was called upon by the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 169 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a request was submitted for the second extraordinary session, with a certain agenda contained in the request. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing the Regional School of State Administration (RESPA), which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law on judicial warlocks, submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by the National Bank of Serbia; 6. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Community programme "Programme to support the development of information and communication technologies policy (ICT PSP) of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP) (2007 to 2013)", which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2010, which was submitted by the Government and 8. A proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2010, which was submitted by the government. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 142(2) and Article 152 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out the 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on: - Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications and - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Community programme "Programm of Support for the Development of Information and Communication Technologies Policy (ICT PSP) of the Framework Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation (CIP) (2007-2013)" (points 1 and 6 of the agenda); 2nd Joint Single Search on: - Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan for the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2010 and - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of Serbia in multinational operations in 2010, (points 7 and 8 of the agenda). Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Who's up for this proposal, please? Please, the system wasn't reset. I'm setting a three-minute break. [[After break – 11.30]] Gentlemen of the Parliament, please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I find that of the 126 MPs, to the extent that it has been declared, 126 - is in favour. We move to item 1 and 6 of the agenda – Proposal for an ELECTRON COMMUNICATION LAW (Common Main and Single Search) Consensual Decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principled single search on the draft law under points 1 and 6 of the agenda, before the opening of a joint daily search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary groups, and so on: Parliament's Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group – 24 minutes; Parliamentary group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; SPS-JS - 13 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. In accordance with Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them: MP Milan Lapcevic – DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's Parliamentary Group. According to Article 142(2) and Article 152(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Community programme "Programme of Support for the Development of Information and Communication Technologies Policy (ICT PSP) of the Framework Programme for Competitiveness of Innovation (CIP) (from 2007 to 2013). "Does the proposal's representative, Master Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, want a word? (Yes) I give my word to Minister Jasni Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are facing today's draft e-communication law. The current telecommunications law, adopted in 2003, was based on the first EU regulatory framework for telecommunications from 1998. The framework was designed as a means of managing the transition from monopoly to competition, thus focusing on creating a competitive market and protecting the rights of new participants in the market. The Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society has set as one of the most important priorities by opening the telecommunications market to encourage the dynamic development of the market, the introduction of new services, their availability in all parts of our country and the improvement of the quality of services offered to citizens and businesses. At the same time, this means the inflow of new investments, the creation of new jobs, the increase of Serbian economy competitiveness and even regional development. The challenges set before us are the opening of the market for new operators, the need to switch from analogue to digital broadcasting of the television programme, the acceleration of Serbia's EU approach process, as well as the planned sale of parts of state ownership of Telekom Srbija, impose a commitment to further improving the legal framework and harmonising rules in this area. Faced with similar challenges and needs, the EU set up a new single legal framework for electronic communications in 2002, which has experienced some changes and additions in 2009. The new EU framework is focused on new, dynamic and many unpredictable electronic communications markets, with far more participants than before, much more developed and complex relations between operators, users and regulators. The convergence of network and service technologies in the sector is reflected in the change of the name of the law that is no longer called the Telecommunications Law, but in the law on electronic communications. This trend has led us to a new framework, which, unlike the old, focused on telephone services, now covers the entire electronic communications infrastructure and services associated with them. The new e-communication law is based on the current European framework for electronic communications and has been developed over the last year in an extremely open process, during which a high degree of agreement has been reached on the proposed solutions among all key market participants, operators, users, academic and professional public, regulator, state authorities and EU representatives. The text that lies before you today, as its main features, includes: continuing institutional strengthening and achieving full operationality of an independent regulatory body, liberalising in the performance of electronic communications networks and providing services, based on the free performance of activities in general, increasing transparency, improving the predictability of the regulatory framework and the rule of law in the field of electronic communications, as a prerequisite for increasing investment in the sector, and that is, by prescribing the obligation of public debates and publishing sub-legal acts on the internet of regulatory bodies and the Ministry; it also lays down clear rules regarding the determination of markets subject to previous regulation, determining operators with significant market power and imposing so-called market power. the regulatory obligations of such an operator; it brings a non-discriminatory and transparent procedure for allocating radio frequencies, as well as addresses of numbers as limited resources of each country. The draft law promotes the principles of technological neutrality in order to further develop the sector and build an effective mechanism for the protection of users of electronic communications networks and services, in particular by prescribing mandatory elements of the consumer contract and by preventing the unilateral change of such a contract. The adoption of a new e-communication law should allow Serbia to wash out the dizzy speed that e-communications develop and dramatically change the world in which we live, the way we learn, do business and have fun. The adoption of this law will be a key step towards creating conditions for effective competition in the domestic market for electronic communications, faster introduction of new networks and services, providing choice of quality services to users and protecting their interests, increasing competitiveness of the economy, balanced regional development, and increasing the high value of the electronic communications market in Serbia. In front of us today is also the proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Community programme, the Programme for Support for the Development of the Information Communication Technology Policy of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme from 2007 to 2013. On 23 October 2009, the Ministry of Telecommunications, i.e. the minister, signed with the EU Telecommunications Commissioner, the European Commission, the Memorandum of Understanding on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in a programme to support the development of IT policy. The programme is one of three specific programmes of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme, to which the Republic of Serbia joined in 2008. Participation in the programme is an opportunity for businesses from Serbia to establish co-operation with European firms to realise their projects to receive grants of up to several million euros per project. A programme to support the development of information and communication technologies policy allows domestic businesses to compete with other European firms in consortiums for funding from the 530m-euro programme budget for the period from 2010 to 2013. The financial contribution of the Republic of Serbia for this year will be 189.459 euros. The indicative amount for next year will grow slightly to reach 323 thousand euros for 2013. There is a great interest in participating in this programme in the Republic of Serbia, which enables the creation of an open and competitive business environment, significantly encouraging investment and the introduction of new ones in this area, leading to a better positioning of domestic companies on the European market. The first call on which legal entities from the Republic of Serbia could submit project proposals lasted from January 21st to June 1st this year. Over the next five months, following an evaluation of projects by European Commission experts, those proposed projects that will be financed by the programme should be known. For now, we know that at least three of our companies have submitted their programmes for this project. The support programme for the development of information and communication technologies policy supports the realisation of projects that support innovation, implementation of services and systems based on information and communication technologies, through better understanding and more efficient use of ICT and through better exploitation of digitalised content by citizens, the public sector, state administrations and businesses. The programme, which includes the broad use of information and communication technologies, will help develop information society, eco-innovation, as well as better access to capital and business support services. The application of the programme should encourage an increase in renewable energy consumption, as well as energy efficiency. The promotion of information and communication technologies in areas of public interest, such as health, cultural heritage, education, state administration, require the creation of more dynamic regulations, where the Ministry of Telecommunications insists and puts a strong focus on creating a more stable or flexible working and business environment. For the Republic of Serbia, it is important that this programme is a financial instrument, which aims to make wide use and use of information and communication technologies, not only among business users, but also in public administration and among citizens. In doing so, the programme needs to contribute significantly to the development of electronic administration services, thus ensuring a more efficient and quality work of the state administration. The programme is specifically focused on interoperability and establishing standards that will enable the rapid and efficient exchange of information and documents and provision of services between the authorities of the state, regional and local administrations, making our administration work more efficient and transparent, significantly contributing to the faster achievement of European standards in this area, strengthening the integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU, as well as to the overall prosperity of the country. I hope the MPs will be interested in this topic, will discuss and will vote these two laws by the end of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41261	I thank Mrs. Minister. In accordance with Article 37(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Group of the SRS will, in principle, be represented by MP Vladan Jeremic, as well as the mandated representative of the SPS-JS Group on the same agenda points as Dejan Radenkovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Did MP Petar Jojic, who, at the session of the Legislative Committee, issue an opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications, wish to explain his opinion? (Yes) Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41262	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the proposal for a law on electronic communications, I must say that I have the impression that this law once again allows for the inflation of bureaucracy that will be in office of the competent ministry, and above all the formation of its organs. So we have a chance to re-establish that the ministries and the government are not giving up forming agencies. The agency is being formed in this area, and it says no financial resources are needed to implement this law. I ask the question, what will the employees who work pay from? Secondly, the board of directors provides for five members, but there is no word in the bill on the number of perpetrators and employed bureaucrats that you foresee. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to Article 4. The draft law, I must say in point 8) of the electronic communications network for special purposes is the electronic communications network of the defence authority, internal affairs, the Security Information Agency, in the text of the defence and security authorities and the authorities of the state administration. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a real possibility of misuse of the means of communication here. If you take four books of Dr Vojislav Seselj, when it was published these days "Secret Police File", you will see in him how, in which way the funds of public communications were abused, and electronically, according to Dr Vojislav Seselj from 1982 and until going to The Hague. Secret Service used a number of means of tracking, listening, secret recording, control of his mail, and not listing, and all of it was in the function of the competent state authorities. At that time, during Joseph Broz, there was also the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure, there was a Regulation on the operation of public and state security services and other secret intelligence services of the military, however, according to Dr Vojislav Seselj, were applied by abuse of such means of communication in countless cases over 700 times. In the fourth book "Secret Police File", Dr Vojislav Seselj, the special addition speaks of Carla del Ponte's 777 documents to be used for The Hague tribunal. I'm counting on the Secret Service not to use anything on this occasion. The secret services, their work, must be subject to parliamentary control and no special powers may be conferred by the Agency without competent state authorities and parliament having control over these means of communication. I doubt that he will come again, therefore, during Broz, the followers of Broz continued, so they continued during Slobodan Milosevic, except for Slobodan Milosevic's second regime. The decision to control and determine the application of the measure was determined by the President of the Supreme Court, but neither the law nor the Constitution are respected today, we still don't know who controls everything. Dr. Vojislav Seselj was exposed to persecution, abuse of such means of information. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, it is necessary to pass such a law that there must be control over the work and use of these funds. This way, the Agency will exercise control of itself and can perform and tap, and record, and monitor, and open the mail, and so on. So there must be order in this country. The only man who, in the history of the Serbian people, even from the Romans to today, published his secret file on 4,500 pages...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41263	Time. Thank you. Madam Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41264	Thank you very much, Mr. Jojic. Maybe at the very beginning, let's clear up a little misunderstanding that started here. The law does not define the introduction of a new agency and the creation of a new agency, but only a change in the name and some restructuring of the existing Telecommunications Agency, so that no additional funding is needed, since the Republic of Telecommunications Agency is financed from the fees for frequencies and technical checks. As for your other objections and concerns about the surveillance of the information and communication of our citizens, I can tell you that in the bill, the area has been improved, as there will now be records of how authorised surveillance of the communications of certain persons is carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the area is now significantly improved in relation to the previous law. Thank you very much. (National MP Petar Jojic, from the place: Replica. I was misread. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41265	I thank you, Madam Minister, for your clarification. Just to let you know, honourable Members of Parliament, that the Defence and Security Committee will have a session in the O.R. at 12.00 hours. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? A PUPS parliamentary group? (No) A group of minority MPs? (No) New Serbia's parliamentary group? (No) (National MP Momir Markovic, from the post: There are separate opinions. ) No more opinions. Please, don't throw it away, there's no opinion. Please, we haven't received any reports, and I can't give you my word. The SPS-JS parliamentary group? (Yes) Mr. Dejan Radenkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41267	Thank you, President. What they say is, the first kittens are thrown in the water, but okay, I'm kidding, a little bit. ) Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the proposal for a law on electronic communications. After seven years, approximately, a new law on electronic communications has been proposed before the National Assembly of Serbia, so far the Telecommunications Act has been in force. As for the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I must say that we support the adoption of e-communication laws, of course, because this law encourages further improvement of this sector, through further liberalisation and the introduction of competition that will allow greater quality of services for end-users. We have to say that the main advantages of this law are seen, first of all, in three domains, so at least I have divided them: 1) reducing the barriers to the entry of new operators, by abolishing the operating licenses that do not require the use of frequencies, i.e.. a general authorisation regime and clearer technical procedures for obtaining appropriate permits; 2) an analysis of the market which enables the prevention of monopoly behaviour of operators who are dominant on the market, through defined procedures that comply with current recommendations and good practice in the EU; 3) the protection of users which enables the end-user of electronic communications services through clear procedures to be familiar with all their rights and obligations, as well as the possibilities for those rights and obligations, if they are denied, to satisfy the regulatory body. Also, all our citizens who belong to a socially endangered category can receive basic services through the Universal Service Fund. In addition, this bill allows for new technologies to be introduced into Serbia's market. First of all, this refers to digital television that is to be introduced during 2012 and will allow our citizens to watch a large number of national, regional and local televisions, with an incomparably better quality of image and sound. This law, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, will regulate the question of service packages, which will allow operators through one single account to provide fixed telephone, internet, cable TV and other services, at a cost that will certainly be lower than when individual bills are paid. I must say that the introduction of an inspection, too, ensures that they are registered, disabled in further work and fines all operators and broadcasters who do not have the appropriate work permit. I must also say that all of the above items represent a newspaper in relation to the existing Telecommunications Act and given its scope, this must certainly be resolved through the vote of the new e-communication law, not through amendments and additions to the Telecommunications Act. However, the bill before us, at least as far as our parliamentary group is concerned, I do not know how other colleagues and other parliamentary groups will look at these segments of the proposed law, leaves a number of concerns and failures to draw attention to. First of all, it refers to the way the regulatory body functions. Since we've had some pompous articles in the past, it leaves the dilemma with us, and also with the user, and also with the citizens, whether it's true or not, so I would ask the minister, that in some future exhibitions, she tells us what happens and how true it is. From my point of view, continuity exists under the new proposed law, I don't think it's that alarming. But we must say that in order to successfully carry out the tasks entrusted to the Agency, and in line with the recommendations and best practice of the EU, we believe that it should remain independent, such as in making its decisions, from other state authorities and all others in the electronic communications market. This does not mean that the Agency should not be responsible for anyone's work and that there should be no control mechanism to ensure that the decisions taken by the Agency are in line with the law, transparent, non-discriminatory and in the spirit of further improvement of this very important sector in Serbia's economy. In this regard, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group doubts whether this law fully respects this principle, because we hold on to the concern that certain provisions of the bill can affect the work of an independent regulatory body and in this respect we present and submit an amendment in which we clearly see that we define what the Agency is, what is a public agency, and what is an independent regulatory body. So, just so there's no dilemma, because we're in the context of the amendment, and when it's in particular, I'm going to get involved in the discussion and we're going to talk about it, and maybe we can come up with some kind of solution that's for the benefit of all of us. What I am particularly interested in is that this bill does not show how the work of the National Internet Domain Register of the Republic of Serbia will be regulated. It's that domain "rs". The question arises – which law regulates their work? Right now, this job, we all know it, I hope everyone knows it, is doing an NGO that's basically raising some significant funds for its own needs, not for the expense of something that represents the national well-being of every country, and that's the Internet domain we have. There are some indications, I don't want to talk about it, some stories run out who are the founders and co-founders of that NGO. I would pray that we don't have any conflict of interest here when it comes to passing this law and missing from that area and then showing up to be someone's personal interests. That's it. I hope that, if we understand each other, we will also remove these shortcomings. Also, in the Transitional Provisions of the Law, it says the Ministry will call this ad. There was a certain dilemma and some statements, even the head of the Republic Telecommunications Agency, that there would be an end to work, a failure. In my opinion, I don't think there's going to be any major setback. There will be some luft, but I hope not to the harm of the state and the budget users, since there may be conflicts in that area of certain people. When it comes to members of the Governing Board of the Republic Agency, and these are all the people elected on 23 May 2005, which the National Assembly, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, appointed, chose, as I say, and they had, which is perhaps good when it comes to an independent regulatory body, the different duration of the term of office. They had a mandate of three years - two members, four years - two members and one to five, and if they had changed in time, after 2008, then 2009, then in 2010 when the last term ended, we would have one mixed, simply, could not have been brought together by members of the Management Board, if I could express myself, and the removal of any doubt that there could be any influence on either side or even political parties. In addition to what it is, I can say freely because I am familiar with the memo sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it has been urged to make changes of these members, of course, by law, to extend their mandate automatically if there is no change. I don't think it would be too bad if we had that provision in the law that says we should enter the procedure 60 days before the term of office of members of the Management Board expires. There will be, at least for me, dilemmas and ambiguities, which is why all this has not been done in good time; replacement, procedure, communication between the Government and the Assembly on the election of members of the Management Board. I can say that I am also concerned about the new board of directors, and the competition, they are named for five years. I hope that the competition that will be called will deliver good results, that we will choose really professional people there, because the period that preceded it is the period of electronic communications, telecommunications and it is in expansion. I think we as a country have to follow that. Next, there are some of my dilemmas when it comes to directives. When I was authorized on postal traffic, whenever the laws are in the procedure we have some explanation. This reasoning states that we are adapting the rules from the current EU regulatory body of the 2002 EU framework. It is known that the draft law in the procedure was last year, as was the public debate. All the comments and public debates that lasted until October 30, when it was closed, as far as I could see, much was accepted and what the operators suggested as some comments, MUP, BIA. It's just, as a backup, if you can comment on what happened, since we also have the directives that were adopted in 2009 and the European Parliament's regulation of 25 November, which implement something new and bind us as a country, in the next, we have more directives than 25. 09. 2002, where these existing Directives from 2002 are being amended... What is important in these directives is that they are very important for our country. Why do I say that? Because it is a favourable circumstance as prescribed in these Directives that the rules introduced by them must be laid down in the national regulations of the Member States of the European Union. Since it explains that we urgently pass this law in order to bring it into line and finally move from analogue to digitally precise for 2012, so I interpret the urgency of the law because it is so explained, I am only interested – whether it is implemented, because in the coming period we will have some amendments and additions to the existing law. Whether these directives were included in November 2009, and now the law is ahead of us by emergency procedure, that is my question, so I would like to ask some explanation, since perhaps the argument remains old. Maybe we implemented those directives in the bill. Well, if we haven't, maybe through the Committee or something to see that we're doing it too, so we don't after a few months, because it's really become a practice to write laws and after a few months we have some changes and supplements. So this is a function of reaching someone, to say, consensus and agreements on the adoption of a very important law. I have to say, it's a very important law. I'd have a lot more. What is important is that we should see when we declare this law to respect the deadlines: that within eight days he enters into force, then 30 days of competition, and the time limit when proposals are established, and they are directed to the National Assembly, that we do not have any failures, because what concerns me? And what remains a dilemma for me, as an economist and not an informer, is not, I'm not, quite, something visper from that area, I'm interested in the rules and all that the Republic Agency needs to respect, and there's a lot of it, that I don't read, it's gonna take me time to read, what's going on with it? Whether they are brought back or they are in force or they are in sync, and that is a clean procedure that is likely to last. Let's just make sure we don't take any steps, 'cause we've already stepped deep into the telecommunication core and we've got a lot of follow-up laws. Second, what remains a dilemma for me? I'm saying again -- electronic communications, telecommunications, I've tried to find some difference, maybe you, since you're more professional than I am in this area, even the name of the Agency is changing, will it withdraw certain costs? It's not much of a cost right now, but a change in the Agency's name, seals, memos, all of those synchronizations, was there a need...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41268	Mr. Radenkovic, I'll apologize to you for just a moment, we have guests, so I'd like to say hello and let you know. Before we continue our work, let me inform you that part of our session from the Grand Hall gallery of the National Assembly is followed by a group of students of the Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Singidunum in Belgrade and that: Jovan Naydenov, Gala Gajic, Igor Nušić and Bojan Balaz. Let's say hello. Excuse me and continue the exposure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41269	Thank you, President. I won't be longer on this subject, I'll get involved when there's a debate in detail. To conclude when it comes to the regulatory body, when it comes to the Agency, I think it should be more operational than it was, but, please, let's pay attention to staying independent. I think we are also being referred to by the EU's directive, not to come here in some kind of collapsing, some kind of surveillance that may be unnecessary. If you think it's time for some surveillance and there's something you know, and we don't know, then let us know. Then I'd step up surveillance, so at the risk that maybe in some future period we shouldn't respect... Of course, through changes and additions, we may give him the opportunity to be truly independent, as it is in other EU countries. As I said, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will support the law in principle if, eventually, through the debate, there are any proposals and that the law improves. We'll have a discussion in detail, so thank you for your attention, so much. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41270	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. I'm sorry, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41271	Madam President, article 27 has been broken. Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, where you are told to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, the Rules of Procedure are regulated when Members of Parliament, who draws opinions on committees, have the right to explain their individual opinions. Since you didn't give me your word when you gave your word to the MPs who gave their opinion, I went to the service and asked for this to be delivered. They said they sent it a few minutes ago and I think it's time for you to give me your word to explain why I took my opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41272	Mr. Ambassador, the moment that report arrives, I'll give you my word, I said, already. I still don't have a report on who gave the opinion. Mr. Lapcevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41273	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, continues the old practice, which has proved several times in this assembly of parliament, that very important laws are adopted by the government on Thursday and delivered to parliament on Fridays, and already Mondays or Tuesdays, their debate is starting in parliament. I really don't understand why it is such a rush for the law on electronic communications, which is one very important law, to be adopted last quarter of the government, to deliver to the MPs on Friday, so that today, in two days, we need the full material of this important law to read, prepare the amendments, prepare for the debate and to hold the debate valid today and implement it in parliament. So a total of two days for 100 pages of material and over 150 members of this law. What was the problem with this law being adopted earlier in the government or what is the problem of being put into debate in parliament at some next session? Who's in such a hurry to get this through so quickly, with as little debate as possible and as little talk in parliament? Apparently, the government, the ministry, is in a hurry, primarily the ruling coalition, to prepare in one non-transparent way the basis for privatisation of the most significant or one of the most significant remaining state-owned companies that are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is Telecom Serbia. The second environment that monitors the announced privatisation of "Telecoma Serbia", is the illegality of the managing board of the current RATEL's Telecommunications Agency, and the future of the electronic communications agency. This agency shall have the responsibility of the regulatory body to control entities engaged in communications market operations and to enforce laws and regulations in this area, to exercise supervision, simply to be an intermediary between service users and those providing those services. As the predecessor mentioned, of the five members of the Management Board of the Telecommunications Agency, two members expired in 2008, two in 2009, and on June 1, 2010, and seven days ago, the chairman of the Management Board of the Agency. So, we don't have any legitimate members of the Agency's Management Board today, but regardless, we will probably get a public call in September to sell Telecoma Serbia, since obviously you and the ruling coalition are not responsible for the independent regulatory body having an opinion on the sale of such an important company to our country. Telecom Serbia is not just a company operating in the Republic of Serbia. Four years ago, the Serbian government decided to privatise "Telecom Serbia" with Republika Srpska and then with a mobile operator in Montenegro, so that Telecom Serbia is today one of the most significant operators in fixed and mobile telephone in this part of Europe, at least in the Balkans. Stronger than the operator from Slovenia and Croatia. For such an important company, Serbia will make a decision, primarily this ruling coalition, to privatise it, and the predecessor to that privatisation is your famous statement a year and a half ago that an increase in the price of fixed-line impulses is necessary, but also the price of a subscription, in order to open the market and to get lower prices by opening the market. So first we're going to increase the price of impulses and increase the price of subscription, and then the market will open, and these same prices that are now increased will decrease. Of course, there is nothing of it, and by increasing the price of the 100% impulse in October 2008 and three times the same in October 2008, and then twice in February this year we got the price of the pulse of 60 pairs in that cheapest traffic, and the price of the subscription was 450 dinars, and it was 75 dinars. More than five times the subscription has been increased, and today it can be calculated with one simple account that for about 4.5 million fixed telephony subscribers per four and a half euros will subscribe annually to Telecom Serbia today, and tomorrow it is likely that Deutsche Telekom or someone who is willing to run the regime will deposit around 250m euros just from the subscription. The figure is said to be derived from the sale of Telecom around a billion and a half euros. When, again, you translate it into plain language, it turns out that in six years only 51% of the actions "Telecoma Serbia" sold will be paid off from the subscription. I would be very interested in having you as Minister of Telecommunications Affairs, though, not an expert in the area, since you have no contact points with telecommunications, explain to us what is the reason for a country to sell such a significant company that is paying huge funds into the state budget, and from that state budget many government activities, including social and various other categories, pensioners, education, health care and all that is necessary for the functioning of a country. Last year, Telecom Serbia gained more than the previous years in a fictitious way, to say, a simple, false way, by not investing in infrastructure almost nothing, or investments in Telecom Serbia, were five or six times less than in earlier years, and then the profit shown as the largest so far, in order to be in the domestic public, but probably both foreign and those interested in privatisation, came to the conclusion that it was a very profitable company, how the company works well and how it would be desirable as a company to be bought. Another interesting fact is about the functioning of your ministry. Since you are coming from a party of experts, who in two previous election cycles promoted its slogan "Property in front of politics", you have also shown yourself as a member of that party, but also your president, in action as an antipod and one laugh that makes fun of the whole concept of expertise. In your ministry, after the announcement that the number of civil servants has to be reduced, 14 people with high professional training have been fired, 11 graduates from telecommunications areas, three of whom are former ministerial assistants, two masters of science, one doctor of science, with an explanation that these people no longer need your ministry and that seven people who are doing the same job are now doing the same job, and seven young people have a total staff and experience as much as probably one or two of those who have been fired. I'm really interested in how you carried out that idea of yours and that propaganda parole of yours, "Property in front of politics" if you fired people who are doctors of science, masters or ministerial assistants, with more than 20 or 30 years of work experience, without any explanation and left them on the street, or on the labour market with 50 or 55 years of life? Where are these people gonna be able to get home today, where are they gonna find new recruits? In doing so, you knew that in the telecommunications sector, i.e. in voting this law, the jurisdiction of inspection supervision would be restored again, but in any event you had completely eliminated the part in the previous period and the people who did the job had been fired. All in all, this is about one thing, in such an unskilled way, the hidden desire to pass such a law quickly, on the one hand, and the illegality of the Management Board of the Telecommunications Agency, privatize the most significant company in the area of telecommunications and prepare new elections at a small door. That this will happen also said the vice prime minister, the president of your party and the economy minister, announcing that all employees in the state institutions will receive one-off assistance from next month, since the story of a few months ago has not passed, that there will be frozen salaries and pensions, that wages will be increased in the state sector, so when the IMF comes and has turned its ears and said that there is nothing, e, then the second principle is applied, so we will share one-time assistance to people who are employed in the state administration, probably also pensioners, socially endangered groups, and everything as persuading and preparing for new elections. A tender for the sale of Telecom is likely to open in the fall. Of which, the ruling coalition will include about a billion, billion and a half euros in the state budget, which according to their account is enough money to make investments in Serbia in the autumn and winter, up to the next spring in various ways, by releasing one-off aid, by increasing pensions, by various marketing tricks regarding the construction of investments in Serbia, in order to raise the standard. There will also be agencies and television and all of this will be prepared by the next elections, so that the ruling coalition will get enough votes to continue dispersing Serbia and destroying its economy. It's just a question of what's gonna happen after that. The money will be spent, the elections may be on fraud and won, but the whole country and all citizens will be poorer for such a significant company, and we will probably be left with only the EPS as a possible pre-election asset for some new elections, and then we will probably be, after the many duties you have left for these two years, and probably in the next year or two you are planning new responsibilities, there will be only debts left and only debt slavery that will probably have to be some new government to solve. This really does not serve the honor of either you or the ruling coalition, and of course we will not support such a law, because it is a perfiduous announcement of something that is further the collapse of Serbia's economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41274	Thank you. Given that the Committee has considered, as we have said, the proposal for a law on electronic communications and decided by majority of votes to propose to the National Assembly to accept it in principle, and that the opinion was given by MP Momir Markovic, I ask, does he now want to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41275	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 150, paragraph 2. The bill says, "On the day of entry into force of this law, the Law on Liaison Systems ceases to apply ("the Official Journal of the SFRY"). "'" etc. The last Law on Systems of Connections was passed in 1996, and in Section 1, it states that it ceases to apply the Telecommunications Act, but this information is missing, so we are sent to the Internet, so that we can remember when the Telecommunications Act was passed. In any case, six years ago, the EU's recommendation to bring our laws into line with European legislation and to this day nothing has been done. Given that we have decisions, views from a recently held summit in Sarajevo, where the EU's leading countries have unequivocally said what they had to say about our entry into the EU, I recommend that you, too, from the ministries and the National Assembly, consider whether it is time to start our legislation to agree with some other countries, because they have unequivocally said that they will not, at least not eventually, and until the conditions are obtained and the EU will fall apart. Therefore, try to bring our legislation into line, let's say, with Russian legislation. Maybe you'll be smarter. As for this telecommunications law and in this law, as well as in previous laws, data are absolutely unprotected and there is a great possibility of abuse. To remind you of the recent trials and here in the Special Court and the trials in The Hague tribunal, where the interceptive talks were the basic evidence of some sort of attitudes, some opinions, some sort of decision, etc. In doing so, indiscriminately listens to the day-to-day, and so do you, listening gentlemen of the government, to remind, in one of these books, Professor Vojislav Seselj writes how closely he is listening to those for whom the court has not made a decision, how much he has been listening to those who needed service, even from the top of the government. Let me remind you, just a little matter of the fact that he was tapped and followed by Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's first follow-up. This law does not lay down clauses which will be prohibited. The minister said not to form a new agency, but to restructure this previous, old Telecommunications Agency, so that I should ask – how many new jobs will be in the restructuring of the agency for listeners, for those who make nice posters or share yellow packages in pre-election campaigns? We of the SRS are absolutely against the agencies as para-state bodies. The next thing you know, what's not clear in this law is that this agency, in part, is mixed up in the affairs of the RRA so far. It's unclear the authority of the agency and the place in the system. I believe that the Agency, by law, is so prescribed, i.e. it is not clearly defined and it turns out that the Agency will be responsible for everything for itself. It can't. The SRS has submitted a number of amendments and these amendments will serve only to correct indeterminateness and ambiguity in this law that you have today put before the National Assembly. I had to isolate my opinion, given that this came before the Committee on European Integration just like this. Let me remind you once again, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you're all tapped. The only question is whose conversations, intercepted talks, they say, will be put on the agenda. Read the books of Professor Vojislav Seselj, you will find a lot of interesting things there. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41276	National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41277	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by considering the proposal for a law on electronic communications, I can only find an excuse and the purpose is certainly this contribution, as it stands in the explanation, of legal solutions that would allow the arrival from analogue to digital broadcasting of television signals. However, all the other things that are brought into the context of today’s story about the proposal for a law on electronic communications in some way have no justification. In view of the fact that the general finding that the situation, i.e. the state-of-the-art communication in this sphere, is still quite messy and unregulated, as well as the fact that, among other things, one of the reasons why today's bill of law is that the alignment with the European regulatory framework does not really stand. I'll just remind you of a few facts concerning this second part of my argument. The EU Directive 1999/93/EC on electronic signatures adopted on 13 December 1999 formally entered into force on 19 January 2000, was the legal basis for electronic signature and was based on it to pass the Law on electronic signature, in all EU countries, as well as in most other countries of Europe. The application of the electronic signature was thought to be one of the first preconditions that our country must do in order to enter the EU accession process. What is a fact is that the entire ICT sector is stagnating due to the lack of timely and proper implementation of the Electronic Signature Act. There is no need to carry out major analyses and studies to conclude that after a realistic start of application of a qualified electronic signature in Serbia, this would be a prerequisite for a positive impact on the development of the overall information and telecommunications sector. What follows after that is the development of the economy in the country. It is evident that the electronic signature would cause the dynamic development of the ICT market in Serbia and, in an indirect manner, cause the rest of the economy to develop. However, it is clear that there is no institutional and procedural circle for the full application of this law, which is the basis or basis for everything further we can talk about, it is particularly unacceptable that as a state, we adopted the Strategy for the Development of the Information Society in December 2006, but that very little or almost nothing was done. This is just as an introduction, because in the reasons for the adoption of electronic communications laws, which is a redefinition of the existing Telecommunications Act, it states that it will allow for an increase in transparency in electronic communications, as a basic prerequisite for increasing investment in the sector, then, to continue institutional strengthening of the national regulatory body, to build an effective mechanism for the protection of users of electronic communications networks and services, to promote the principles of technological neutrality in order to further develop the sector and, particularly interesting, non-discriminatory process of granting addresses and numbers, as well as radio frequencies as limited resources. As realistic or inexhaustible as this is going to be, I'm going to try to show and prove based on the following arguments. It is generally known that there is not enough clear link between the obligations of all relevant laws in this area, regulations and regulations relating in a specific case to the base stations, and in particular to the fact that the base stations represent equipment that uses the frequency spectrum resource and one necessity of rapid construction, as well as the user's requirement for quality operation of telecommunications network services. Also, what can easily be seen is that there is no clearly defined connection and relationship between the existing law, the Law on Spatial Planning, the role of RATEL in all of this, its relevant regulations, in this case, the construction and use of basic radio stations objects. Therefore, I have tried to find some logical link to the jurisdiction of individual institutions operating under these regulations and their activities in practice. However, they were gone. For these and other reasons that I'm going to talk about, we're coming to the point that the operators of these public mobile networks, the owners of the base radio stations, are forced to produce one complex massive documentation in order to obtain permits, certificates, approvals, opinions and other documents. In this way, operators are not able to achieve what is planned through the work of network building dynamics and thus enable better quality services for consumers on the market if all the obligations that follow existing legislation are fully respected and which, truth be told, in this proposal of the electronic communications law, which today is in front of us in parliament, did not make it possible to do so more significantly. On the other hand, the existing regulation, which applies generally to radio devices, sets out one complex procedure for obtaining permits for its release and requires prior control of a number of details, above all, and technical and technological nature, and even something absurd, that is, for example, for the types of equipment already certified in countries, i.e. in this legal regulation of the EU countries, which is called upon by the Proposer to explain the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is necessary to re-show and demonstrate its regularity, i.e. to verify these characteristics and compliance with the standards prescribed. When it comes to the rules for the production of these project documentation, they actually require one re-verification, therefore, to the characteristics of equipment, whether the values defined by certain standards of "etsi" and other relevant international institutions are met. Even analytical proof of the correctness of the budget, detailed proof of the installation process of equipment, etc. is required. I'm talking about a situation that is real on the ground, and which, unless it is accompanied by adequate legislation, leads to the fact that I was talking about at the very beginning, which is, above all, the inapplicability of the laws that are passed here in the Republic Assembly. Interestingly, some of these elements, according to our applicable regulations, must be repeated for each individual case of application of the same type of equipment, requiring the submission of documentation, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, calling for the still current Telecommunications Act, as well as for the emphasis on proposings and the government that the overall goal is to reach the level of development of the EU's telecoms markets in our country, and then to raise a simple question – and why are these principles and procedures in force in those countries not applied? I remind only of the beginning of the story and of the Directive which has been in force for ten years, and one of the relevant documents is certainly the acceptance, for example, of the Declarations of Equipment Manufacturers, that their equipment meets the requirements of the relevant directives of EU countries. By bringing these examples to the SRS, we do not want to question the existence of an institution of control, an inspection by the competent authorities. However, what is inevitable and what is good enough is prescribed by the draft law that we are discussing is the fact that, first of all, in this sector control must be directed, on the one hand, towards protecting all end-users, and on the other hand, certainly towards speeding up the development, i.e. to accelerate the development of telecommunications, i.e. one form of relaxation of legal regulations and procedures that we have. In particular, the newly created Republic Agency for Electronic Communications, i.e. the follow-up of the Republic Telecommunications Agency, should adopt standards and technical regulations relating only to the use of telecommunications networks, systems and funds, and not to the design, installation, maintenance, etc. The Agency shall monitor compliance with the prescribed standards and standards and issue a marketing certificate after the technical examination and approval of their use. We believe that there is a need here to exclude the license and assign the frequency range that should not be subject to technical examinations, especially for each device individually. And the control and control of the network and equipment are the subject of this regular inspection control, which is certainly positive in this bill. However, I call again on what is actually the situation in the field that follows the problem in this area, and which, even so far, will not, in future, be adequately regulated in this legal sphere. These are some of the problems that we are facing, and above all, I would like to point out something about the issue of these technical permits, i.e. certificates and current regulations, which, in the SRS' view, should be changed, in that sense, that the subject matter only refers to the control of compliance of use and maintenance, which is carried out after the technical proposal has been made. You have information that certification in the EU is practically reduced to radio and terminal equipment, and that, only in terms of compliance with radio standards "EMC – health and safety" and that, in this way, all of these harmonised norms and their application are defined, which is actually a clear assumption that radio and telecommunications equipment that is in line with the relevant harmonised standards and should meet the only requirements necessary for the placing of radio and telecommunications terminal equipment on the market. Also, one of the problems is the number of projects for individual base radio stations, which are largely quite identical to the content and structure of other projects. We believe that this procedure should be simplified, instead of being further complicated and significantly increased in the process of verifying compliance, or certification, given that it only needlessly makes it difficult for everyone involved in the process. The whole chain, when I touched this one, checks of conformity in practice seems to be so that for each individual radio device, technical documentation is submitted for obtaining a radio station permit, that the main project for obtaining a certificate of compliance of project documentation with standards and norms is submitted, that licences for radio frequency are submitted and, of course, they are also going to request and appropriate certificates of payment of appropriate taxis, of taxi height, etc. We'll talk about this later, given that I don't think they're following the current economic situation we're in as a state. Of course, we aim to reduce administrative costs, i.e. less dependence on the regulations and standards that result from these problems above. It is necessary to reduce taxis, i.e. first of all, fees for the certification of equipment and for the certification of these main projects, i.e. documentation and construction. What we would like to point out here is the part that applies to the use of radio frequencies for a radio station in a mobile and fixed network, i.e. the amount of compensation itself. The formula for calculating the amount of compensation was obviously not based solely on criteria for rational and economic use of frequency spectrum, as well as the principle of regulation of relations in the area of telecommunications. We believe that one rational use of spectrum should be stimulated, therefore, the repetition of channels, major modulation indices, the use of other polarisation on the same channel, etc. It is also necessary to simplify the construction of operators, through the allocation of spectrum, not individual channels in certain frequency ranges, which will also, as a positive effect, in view of and the fees prescribed, result in a reduction in the level of radio frequency fees and will have a significant impact on the further development of radio links between operators that have a multi-annual work license. These are some of the principled suggestions or scans of the situation in this area. I would just like to point out in the end that it is certainly necessary to edit this area, because it is extremely important for the century in which we live and for what we are expected as a country and citizens. I think it's quite stagnating in the implementation of all the legal solutions that have been made from this area so far, and that this law, but also its proper application, would take one step. However, what we could conclude so far based on the fact that things are happening on the ground, it is clear that there is not much reason to be optimistic about the application of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41278	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to inform you that part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery of the National Assembly is followed by a group of students of the Belgrade University and that: Predrag Pantic, Marina Vulović, Filip Jankovic, Nenad Josipović, Milena Laketić, Nikola Ristic, Aleksandar Jovančić, Aleksandra Ćato, Saša Paunović, Marko Todosić, Jovan Stanojčić, Nikola Milanović, Predrag Đurović, Miljan Pavlovic, Dusan Matković, Snezana Radić and Jelena Smiljanic. Let's say hello. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled single search, applied for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS, New Serbia, ZES, SNS and the SRS. [[Applause]] I give my word to MP Djordj Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41279	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to numerous suggestions and proposals, the questions asked by fellow Radenkovic, who is the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club for these two points of exceptional importance, I would once again like to say at the very beginning that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will in principle support the draft Law on Electronic Communication, as well as the proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding Law on Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Community's "Programm of Support for the Development of Policy and Communication Technologies for Competitiveness and Innovation". As I said, we support in principle the proposal for a law on electronic communications because we think it is necessary first to improve the legal framework and follow EU rules when it comes to this area, if we are talking about opening the market, if we are talking about the value of the electronic communications market. On the other hand, by adopting this legislative proposal, we want to create a comprehensive, efficient legal framework that will certainly enable and improve the development of electronic communications. Of course, it is said, among other things, that the introduction of the Ministry's representative, or minister's representative, contributes to increasing competitiveness and, of course, to creating opportunities for citizens and businesses to come to a better choice, i.e. as high as possible. We support this legislative proposal in principle, because we want to believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal will enable and implement all of what is stated in seven key points, as stated in the light of this legislative proposal. First, there will be an increase in the investment attractiveness of the Serbian telecoms market through increased transparency, and transparency should be made possible by adopting this legislative proposal. This legislative proposal aims to strengthen the role of the independent regulatory body of the Republic of Telecommunications Agency, which, in accordance with this legislative proposal, can impose an obligation, as it is said, to publish a standard offer for access to local loops, to impose an obligation of non-discriminatory behaviour and common use of infrastructure, as well as to prescribe, inter alia, a level of price. This legislative proposal should enable, as explained in the explanation, the liberalisation of the electronic communications market by introducing a general authorisation regime, which means that services can provide anyone who meets the conditions without authorisation and licence. Of course, there is an exception provided for by the transitional provisions of the law. The draft e-communication law aims also to improve the protection of users, which is of paramount importance and the mandatory elements of the contract are prescribed, as well as the fact that the contract cannot be unilaterally changed. What is also expected of the proposed law is one simpler, more transparent, as indicated, the process of allocation and address and numbers and the radio-frequency sector, but also the promotion of the principle of technological neutrality, and this is very important when it comes to telecommunications and particularly concerns and concerns the service of the universal service that the state must guarantee. When it comes to digitisation, it should once again be pointed out that this law is the basis for the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting of TV, with, as far as I could tell, the law empowers the Ministry to adopt the Regulation, and the public enterprise has a obligation to build a network for this kind of broadcasting. At the very end, when it comes to this legislative proposal, I would like to highlight another paper introduced by this law, which is extremely important, is the introduction of an inspection in order to prevent illegal action. Inspectors in the electronic communications sector will regulate the appearance of pirate broadcasting. They'll be able to take away part or all of the equipment that's not authorized to perform an electronic service or broadcast a program. The SPS-JS parliamentary club will in principle support this legislative proposal. As regards the support programme for the development of information and communication technology policy, it is, in fact, another specific programme for competitiveness and innovation which, as I could see, will contribute to the progress of the information society in Serbia, i.e. strengthening key segments of the information society. This programme has special importance for small and medium-sized enterprises, as through the use of information and communication technologies companies will have the opportunity to improve, improve their business. It is not only for business users, it should be stressed, but it will contribute to the development of electronic administration in order to make the work of the state administration more efficient. And what may be most important will allow a rapid exchange of information between the authorities of the EU countries' state, regional and local administrations. By including Serbia in the programme, it establishes permanent communication channels based on information and communication technology with EU member states. Of course, what is also important is implementing agreed standards. So, at the very end, once again, in principle, the SPS-JS Parliament Club supports this legislative proposal as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41280	Thank you. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41281	Dear citizens of Serbia, today I will reveal to you how the most legislative body in Serbia works. Not just because I'm sick of it, especially this intense process of devising everything that is the expression of your will, the decision you've made in the elections, the criticism you have on the existing state of affairs, which you've expressed quantitatively through more than a million signatures to call an extraordinary parliamentary election, but also because the word is that as in the right reality of the show, which the Assembly, unfortunately, pleads to be, there is an institution of confession. The first was a campaign from which you concluded that MPs are lazy, boastful and rude, so they will go on summer vacation until October, especially because they cannot stand competition by footballers at the World Cup. Then it turns out that the president of the assembly as a real educator, not to mention the fact that he's a psychiatrist, warns MPs that they're still going to have to do something. In order for everything to go according to the principle of "moving worse and the grandmother combing", a close-crisis was again applied in calling for an emergency session, by having MPs over the mobile, either through fixed telephone, Internet and other electronic communications notified on June 3rd, afternoon, that they would have a session on June 7th, with eight points, of which they do not know which is more important. It's classic. Members of the "Semafor" coalitions are embellishing, holding a child with red, yellow and green coffees and preparing for some of the further seas so that they are not "tired" by dissatisfied voters, and opposition MPs are quick to deal with laws whose adoption and application and how to change the quality of life in Serbia, unless this quality of life in Serbia is already in itself an oxymoron. And to make the matter more paradoxical, the first point of this, hit-and-run, the agenda is exactly the new draft law on electronic telecommunications, in translation – a law that is the alpha and omega of modern society. Since the phase of the so-called phase. The capitalism of bricks and plasters has gone into the phase of information technologies as the ruler of the world, it is quite clear, even to those who have never had insight into 151 members of this law, that it is something very powerful and financially important, because as a nation, we, as a nation, broke out the world ranking list in the sight of TV, which has been witnessed by last week's research. The Serbs are in front of Americans in the consumption of electronic content, called the "Lilla Pills", and between one million and two million Serbian citizens are on Facebook. Rule, give the people bread and games, it's translated into – give people's electronic communications, they don't have any. Fired for free action, surplus at work, surplus in the house, with desperate women and demanding children, who did not ask to come to this and this world, there are solutions. There's always the possibility of watching someone else's life, laughing at the stupidity of those who think they're faces, and in fact, only you could read them right. It's a whole virtual world where long ago visas have been abolished, discrimination based on looks, social powers, financial conditions, sexual definition, in translation, it's the meaning of what's written in an explanation for the adoption of this bill. The Telecommunications Act, which regulates the area of telecommunications, was largely in line with the old EU regulatory framework of 1998. The dynamic development of the sector and the high value of the electronic communications market imposes the obligation to keep the EU rules in line and to follow them in this area. The 2002 European Framework for Electronic Communications has been mandatory in EU member states since mid-2003 in the process of meeting the requirements for full EU membership, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to bring its legislation into line with the EU's relevant legal assets in the field of electronic communications, etc. What, if I understand correctly, is our obligation, as a candidate for EU membership, is to discipline and reason, and when we do so on a long stick, the expected carrots, which is once again the translation of the last paragraph of the reasoning of the reasons for the law. The adoption of e-communication laws will provide a modern, efficient and unique legal framework, which will allow for further development of electronic communications, which directly contributes to increasing competitiveness and enables Serbian citizens to choose better quality services, thus increasing the quality of everyday life. There is only one small problem, yet in 2003 when the Strategy for the further development of information systems in Serbia was created, the Western powers have told us that it is a good starting point for talks with Europe and that Serbia will be a leader in the region on the basis of such an ingenious strategy. No, 'a little morgen! "Instead of becoming a "boss" in the Balkans, they took away some of our territory and continued to support the famous digital gap. In fact, there's one term that's generally used when it comes to the world of information technologies, which is a digital self. The division of developed and undeveloped, rich and poor, privileged and oppressed, has its own digital correlation, so that, however, there is a gap between countries that are developed and those that are not. Theoretically, broadband networks, such as the Internet, are available to someone in Mali and to someone in California. However, there is a gap, which, above all, takes a look at the quality and availability of the service. It is interesting that the principle of shifting quantity to quality works precisely on the information technology plan, and that the quantity is the most often born of quality, with the accompanying availability of new technologies, above all, in the financial sense. If it is not for comparison of the quality and price of Internet services in Serbia and, for example, in Austria, then it should certainly be a measure of service quality ratio in Serbia and Slovenia, such as the former SFRY Republic, for example. Slovenians have faster Internet at the same prices – because they are Slovenians. No! No! It is because the state has made sure to reduce the gap with Europe, i.e. to reduce the mention of the digital gap. With all due respect to Ms. Telecommunications Minister Jasni Matic, who is known as an extraordinary expert, apparently the law did not conceive, nor did she write, but that it was one of those laws per dictatorship. However, certainly Mrs Matic knows that in 2003 the opportunity to, if she does not skip, at least reduce that digital gap, but even sadder not to do so now, when it is passed such a comprehensive law which theoretically sounds nice, where it is, however, slightly different in practice. I would hate to see the current Minister of Telecommunications address only after the end of his term, and in his own confessional office, he says, "Sale of Telecoma" is an incomprehensible move. As minister, I was against selling Telecom and I haven't changed my mind about it. I don't see any reason to sell Telecom. The only reason you can hear it in the media is that the government is operating with him in an unprofessional and non-domestic way. What is particularly absurd is that politicians in power themselves speak publicly, claiming to themselves that they are incompetent." On March 25th of this year, in the "Balkan" magazine, Aleksandra Smiljanic, former minister of telecommunications in the Serbian government, spoke. Of course, she is not lonely, there was also a letter sent to President Tadic. I'm just saying, I don't want the current minister to find himself in a similar situation to Aleksandra Smiljanic, although history tends to repeat itself. It repeats and talks with the establishment of the agency, because it is under the impression that this bill is packaged so that the establishment of a new agency can be broken down. Where all these guys and where all these relatives, friends, party staffs will be long gone is no longer a question, ever since a new magic formula called AGENCY appeared. If someone asked me if America was still a promised country, I would tell them – yes, but I would make an amendment unless it was an agency that the government founded in Serbia. Whenever you don't know what the problem is, it's about money, and whenever you don't know where to hire all party personnel, the solution is in the agency. The largest number of comments and objections to this proposal for a law on electronic communications, which I personally received through electronic communications, referred to the establishment of the Electronic Communications Agency. From the tent, it is not the state administration, so similar staff can be employed, to the State Administration Act on the affairs of inspection control, and even professional affairs of inspection, verification, examination, measurement and the like, cannot be entrusted to the Agency, so it is not good or rational, efficient and economical solution by which, within the framework of inspection supervision, the Ministry only takes executive, coercive measures, while the Agency performs all previous technical and administrative control tasks, etc. expert supervision, including the taking of preventive measures. Not to mention those remarks concerning the fact that the provisions of the existing law, above all, create the possibility of liberalisation in the field of telephony, the more efficient use of network infrastructure, or the interconnection of operators, and that the distribution area of radio and TV programs in this segment has been neglected. Maybe that's the way it's supposed to be. Perhaps the unfortunate "Great Brother" and the verbal-coloration "Farma" are overcome, leaving every citizen of Serbia to become a "servever". It's time for the extremities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41282	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41283	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, the LSV has put a number of amendments to this law and depending on how the Minister and Government are determined according to our amendments and we will define ourselves in the day of voting under this law. Although the law has certain good points, which we heard from the minister and the MPs who spoke about them, of course the Social Democrats League MPs have a grudge against this law, especially because the law is treated badly and inadequately to AP Vojvodina, which is primarily referred to as the way in which the most important strategic and planned acts are adopted, the way members of the Agency's Management Board are elected and how the differences in income and expenditures of the Agency are distributed, which is intended to finance the development of electronic communications and information society. In the current Law on Telecommunications, 2006, the AP Vojvodina has a whole series of powers that not only did this law not only improve, but also skipped them in this proposal. In fact, the AP Vojvodina had through the authority responsible for telecommunications tasks concerning participation and policy setting in the area of telecommunications and the adoption of a strategy for the development of telecommunications in the Republic of Serbia. Also, the plan for the purposes of radio frequency ranges and the distribution plan of radio frequencies, part of the difference of funds, relatively income generated by public telecommunications operators whose head office on the territory of AP Vojvodina, was paid into the AP Vojvodina budget, which is not the case in this law. The executive majority of the AP Vojvodina, the current government of the AP Vojvodina, was authorised under the current Telecommunications Act to apply for the election of members of the Governing Board of the Republic Telecommunications Agency. The rights acquired in this law are not respected and therefore we have proposed amendments that will be discussed in particular. Depending on how the Government treats our amendments, we will treat this law. What's the problem here is that those who speak most of these days about decentralisation not only are they not ready to take steps towards that decentralisation of the government, but are increasingly centralizing the state, so we have one declarative decentralisation that actually leads only to further centralization. Because this is not about increasing the jurisdiction that the existing autonomous provinces already have and the unwillingness to transfer certain responsibilities to some potentially new regions, but it is about, even, removing some of the responsibilities already acquired by previous laws, and this is about the one who advocates decentralisation, the one who advocates regionalisation cannot work and will not have support from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41284	Thank you. Mr. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41285	Good planners always know that they're timing a time when an important topic will prey on attention or when an important topic needs to go so inconspicuously, as one extremely important law passes today, important by matter it regulates, even more important by the practice it continues, to change the names of agencies and funds without underlining what the previous organisational form has done, how much money it's brought to the state, how much more comfortable, more informative or similar life has made for the citizens, and that system that has long been established on Titanic. When the Titanic began to penetrate the water, people moved chairs, counting that the ship would not be submerged. I think this is one of the vain attempts to move chairs, because a ship based in this way on state administration – in which you trust someone with public authority, denying the state of public income, is not a good way to function. When I say - not good, I don't present a value court in terms of emotion, I say that it is not good in terms of damage that the state suffers, because you are giving the right to something that, by legal status, by organisational form, by way of the opening of the giro-account, is not a clearly defined body, charges on behalf of the state only some income, creating under the mask of independence of the regulatory body of wild growth in the state organism, which neither contributes to legality nor contributes to better life and the standard of citizens. I've got too many claims for this. Because you cannot answer questions, for example: 1) Is this electronic communications agency, which will replace RATEL, an organisation that is by its nature an independent regulatory body of the authority of the government? It is and it isn't. 2) Whether independent regulatory bodies, i.e. public agencies are public agencies and are the provisions of the Public Agency Act applied to this body as well? You can't have an exact answer there either. It's not your personal responsibility, it's a system error that, unfortunately, is being supported. 3) Are they employed in the regulatory bodies of civil servants, which would withdraw the application of the Law on civil servants, or are labour law applicable to their rights and obligations? That's how when and how where and how in which case, there's no rule. 4) Are the independent regulatory bodies of a financial independent institution, the key question I am talking about, from the domain I deal with as an economist, or do they have the status of a direct or indirect budgetary user? As much as you prepared yourself for this law, as much as you wanted to prepare yourself well, using teams of lawyers, experts, Anglo-Saxon legislation, French experience, these four questions would remain unanswered. Yeah, but maybe, but it's not like that. And it all comes down to the answer that you don't have on this fourth question – whether independent regulatory bodies are financially independent, i.e. Do they spend money from the budget and how, in fact, on the back of citizens, when they directly charge them some services, permits or papers, or when they do it over the budget, which, for citizens, actually doesn't make much sense? Why am I particularly talking about the Telecommunications Act from which RATEL came, and today it changes its name to the Agency, a public agency, which will deal with electronic communications? One court dispute that was conducted in June 2008, I don't think the citizens will be surprised, because we can't be surprised anymore, really, when RATEL sued the Ministry of Telecommunications. RATEL, now it will be the Agency for Electronic Communications that prescribes the rules, adopts a sublegal act by this law that we are talking about, which is in itself illogical, and the inspection of this work is carried out by the Ministry, and we claim that RATEL is an independent regulatory body. We had the case that in 2008 the legal knowledge of the authors of the Law on Public Agency was completely annulled, the government's good intention to provide citizens with legal certainty and quality and competitive services because the Ministry of Telecommunications announced on June 13th that it was taking over Ratela's affairs because it had not annulled the decision to give the call number 069 "Telenor" without public competition. Again, the public is alarmed by the story that Telenor will not be able to deal with fixed telephony business, because due to this law, RATEL will not be in a legal position to allow them to do so, and rather points to suspicion. I'm not going to mention that first suspicion when Telenor was real, not to say "bought," when it wasn't "Telenor" at all, when it wasn't an Austrian firm at all. When considering the amendments, I will show a copy of the Agency for Business Registers, where it appears to be a completely different company from Denmark, registered at another address, etc. I call on President Tadic to deal with the history of the formation and purchase of some very interesting enterprises, which are on our agenda today. At that time, the head of the Department of Regulatory and Control, and here we are today dealing with a change of regulation, in a written statement, so we are not convincing something that can be denied, the BETA said that the Ministry has taken over the powers of Ratel, which means that the Management Board is no longer making decisions in the telecommunications sector, but is doing so by the Ministry. Is there a genius mind in the government or in the Ministry that can explain to me how it is possible for an independent regulatory body elected by the Assembly, which is responsible for the work, to be suspended by the Ministry within 120 days? The answer to such a meaningful question of journalists was that, following multiple warnings, entrusted jobs were done untimely, that they were not properly carried out and that the right to do these jobs at all was taken away. I repeat, how can it be if the Law on Telecommunications states that the President and members of the Management Board can be resolved only by the decision of the Serbian Parliament on a proposal from the Management Board or the Government? Do not give me a formal answer – they were not resolved. They weren't actually doing their job. That was the Ministry on their behalf, which means they were actually cleared. In Ratel, they said that the decisions they made were not illegal, and now the key to the problem law is in the next sentence – because most of the authorities in the telecommunications sector were entrusted to the agency, while the ministry deals with the most general strategic issues. My lords, why do we have a multi-party system, parliamentary elections, which is why we choose the government, ministers, if they are only dealing with the adoption of strategic plans and strategic issues, and trust the public authority of the Agency to provide working conditions, which generates costs, we say, experts for which we have no criteria and what kind of experts should be, for example. on this new board of directors? The three of them must be experts in the field of electro-struction, the others can be lawyers or economists. What are the criteria that we measure reputation if such violations of the law when we suspend the basic powers of an organization have not been measured by an existing criterion called court, punishment, judgment or liability for what is not applicable to the law? In such an atmosphere with this experience, with many theoretical works that really contribute to clearing up the situation about what public agencies are, what the authorities of the administration are in the composition, who is doing this entrusted public authority and who, above all, needs to do part of the state administration's affairs more quality and cheaper, and we have countless evidence of over-taxes, deliberately I say to taxes rather than fees, which we have quoted through the amendments, because by nature things are those costs charged by RATEL, tomorrow this agency will do, in fact, taxes that depend on the economic power of the debtors, as defined by the Constitution, without accounting for any of you or us – why some services cost just as much. And instead of practice taken over from the Anglo-Saxon legal system, uncanny to our experience, which gives bad results, we measure, narrow down, return to the work of the Ministry, the ministries, no, we move chairs to the Titanic on which the water has already hit a sinking ship. I really don't understand that you're going deaf about the court, the court as a court, the court of the public. Recently, the Research Reporting Centre, I assume, was led by a trail of discussions that were opened here in parliament, tried to find out what was different between the authorities of the state administration in the composition, in legal status, in the collection of revenues, in the competences of ministries over them, by constitutional powers that they have and, regardless of their tenacity, have failed to reach even the exact number of agencies, directorates, various other organisational forms of the ministry. And that, the moment we talk about saving, when we talk about the foreign reserve melting, when we call for solidarity in every place, we open up new agencies by closing down old, very boldly saying that it doesn't generate new costs. But, come on, bring us a bill here, not a RATEL alone with that one-page State Auditor, how much he paid the rent, how much he charged, what he did with the money, because that's gonna get out sooner or later. What's run by the government, I'm really interested in as any citizen, to leave his authority and authority to someone else he owns with a silk gait, probably only when he doesn't do something that, exactly, bothers her as a state or its officials. Who gives up the jurisdiction they have? Who gives up the authorities and obligations he has made in the elections and forming a coalition government to regulate certain areas of life, regulating them so unknowingly that in some members, you seek even pointless provisions that death as a fact of losing the ability to perform a function is determined in the process of caricature? Is it so irrelevant what laws you come to us with? Do you think that the time of surrender of this law from June 3rd when amendments were to be handed over by 11:00 p.m., and we don't have time to read it humanly, we're interested, because what it says here is going to produce consequences for both employees in this area and those who want to enter this area, and all the litigation that is already under way and the litigation that will result from this. I don't happen to mention court disputes, because information has recently been released -- as much as this state has lost millions in international arbitration, which, according to lost disputes, which according to settlements, but as much money as one state that has to take care of every dinar should not have allowed itself, a state that says it has capacity, above all, in human resources in terms of quality lawyers, administrations that will realize the accession of the EU, or the fulfilment of demands, and on the other hand, we make such contracts and make such promises when privatising such promises that we are aware that at the moment of giving, they will not be able to be met. The law that you entered during the extraordinary session really doesn't deserve to be discussed in terms of his acceptance. What has been applied so far, stemmed from the Law on Telecommunications as the work of Ratel deserves the strictest criticism, which is only referred to by the judicial dispute between you as the Ministry and Ratel. Other things that I'm not talking about right now. We'll talk about it when the amendments are on the agenda. So, we can't vote for this law in any way, and there will be more opportunities for further details. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41286	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41287	I would like to thank all the MPs who have considered the law, although I admit that they have had an extremely short period of time and for that I am sorry. I would just like to say that in no way can I be responsible or here to discuss anything that happened before 7 July 2008 when I became Minister and from what point on I am responsible for everything that happened in the telecommunications sector and in the Ministry of Telecommunications. All that happened before that was the responsibility of some other people, and these questions can be raised with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41288	Thank you. The People's Messenger Pavel Marchok is not here. National MP Goran Mihajlovic is not here. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I would resent at the beginning in front of the SRS Group is an explanation of the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. So, about a month, two, three, it seems to me, we had a law that discussed how and how we're going to move from analogue to digital broadcasting system, and we've been making some conclusions that we've been challenging the speed of how this process is going to take place, how much financial resources it takes, and what's the prerequisite for it to be fulfilled so that this law can be applied. What we've turned our attention to then is that the government's plan is also designed to, let's say, strategy for the development of telecommunications and in general the transition from digital to analogue can be implemented in a way that should be implemented is also this fact that we're getting this law today. The appointment or renaming of the Agency with additional competences, whether it is independent or not, whether it brings a financial plan in agreement with the Government, whether members of the Management Board are elected as members of the Broadcasting Agency through the Assembly Committee or through a public competition, whether the Management Board should choose the Director or be appointed independently specified by this law, but what is not precise are old flaws and old, to say the problems that the RATEL itself had, and the Agency itself, and during the election itself, members of the same. Now, by adopting this law, we will be in a position to keep one of the same people on the other side of the law, on the basis that they are professional, many years of working experience in this area, etc. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is said: "The consideration of the draft law on electronic telecommunications by emergency procedure is proposed in view of the contribution of legal solutions that will allow the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting of television signals to be achieved by 4 April 2012, as foreseen by the Strategy for switching from analogue to digital broadcasting... ''Then we have instructed examples of how it is in the countries of Europe and how many times America has broken that deadline and how much the process is. More or less, about that, we all agreed together. What we cannot agree on is, firstly, by 2012, there are times, secondly, there are no financial resources provided here, and to move from one system to another, it takes about 50 to 70 million, as stated in the previous law. What has not been defined, and even this, are legislative activities in order to create a legal framework, so for the development of both these agencies and digital broadcasting itself. We then mentioned the vision of the specificity of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the existing rights and market position of the emitter, which is certainly not negligible then or now. We have not left a permit to broadcast programmes, which are valid even after the planned date for the exclusion of the analogue system, in a legal framework which will be able to protect its rights. Then we said that the Telecommunications Development Strategy in Serbia from 2006 to 2010 was based on three laws: the Law on Radio-Difusion, the Law on Public Information and the Law on Telecommunications. None of them defined what was necessary, so, even, this law. We made it clear to everyone and then, as we are now, that it is clear that the country of Serbia is lagging behind other European countries. The result is that television stations do not offer adequate digital platforms and show great interest in providing TV services to local theatres. If you remember, I mentioned an example of RTS, which went digital for a while, without the Agency's consent, and was then given a later consent, etc. In addition, the development of the cable network has a significant impact on the speed of switching from one signal to another. Therefore, the cable system in Serbia is not sufficiently developed, so just so that the exclusion of the analogue programme will certainly have to take place gradually. By 2012, we don't know how this cable system is going to develop, because we have a situation where no one is controlling the cable system today, that we have a Thompson concert in the middle of Serbia, that thanks to the viewing of the cable system and the operator implementing the cable system, we have a breach of pre-election silence, we have a day of mourning, we have pornography in the day, and we have everything we don't need, because there's no one to control the cable system. In order for the cable system to be controlled, we must first introduce order into this analogue system, and then switch to digital. In order to speed up the process of switching to digital television, the government has announced on its website that by the end of the year it will decide on the allocation of RTS technology and that a special public company will then be formed to deal with the exclusive broadcasting of the television programme, not only for RTS, but for all stations that have permission to broadcast TV programmes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You know that even then we have criticised this position, because it is practically a monopolization of the transmission and transmission of the digital signal by the future public enterprise, which may be in a better position than this agency, to determine who will be the emitter and to set the conditions for what needs to be met by the emitter in order for it to be on the digital signal. The issue of abuse is also raised, which party will be in power during that period and how much will this public enterprise abuse? But it's not the essence of this whole problem, it's the essence of the law. We in the SRS are not opposed to moving from one system to another, from analogue to digital, which is moreover, but in a way that would be simple, better and useful for all citizens of Serbia, not political parties. What is an insolvent dilemma, which will be in all laws, is abuse for political purposes. How one system and one association can be abused, including RTS, as a public media service, for political purposes, we have the opportunity to see every day, watching, say, "Dnevnik". You know it's already become normal that the opposition is guilty, that the world's economic situation is responsible for the country's bad situation and that the 'black '90s' are the result of which we live badly, etc. However, on the basis of this whole conclusion, you cannot find the culprit in the existing government and in the existing majority in parliament or in any existing ministry or any other system of state administration, because the abuse of a public house is so transparent that I do not know what to expect from other public houses that are not under the control of the state. What I would like to make out of this law as a remark is a few of the principles that are contained in these articles. Article 3 says: "The objectives and principles of regulation of relationships in the field of electronic communications are based on... ', so now preamble G17 plus - even development. The preamble used for every law, even for this one, we don't mind, is part of a political struggle, but a good telecommunications system can cover all of Serbia and half of Europe, so "balanced development" is not something to be called upon. It is then said in point 2) to ensure the predictability of business and the level playing field for operators. You hereby acknowledge that there are no equal terms until now or until the entry into force of this law, so far they have not been equal under any conditions. Furthermore, point 3) harmonising the performance of electronic telecommunications activities with domestic and international standards. What financial resources are needed for. Here you're saying that this law does not require financial resources, and I'm telling you that they are and you know it very well. In addition, point 6) encourages competition. So is this encouraging competition because of market liberalisation, which is often mentioned word or term in this law? This means that we will have more foreign and domestic public operators or foreign - domestic and public services. If we encourage competition, it means that we will open up to the market of some other foreign countries, which may be able to abuse our media space better than today's government does. Article 7 relating to the legal position states that the Republic Agency is an independent organisation with legal personality. I ask you - how can something be on its own if the Government gives consent to a financial plan, if the Government implements a competition for members of the Management Board, if members of the Management Board make proposals for sublegal acts, give consent to the Government, if the Government is obliged to respond that some provisions can be applied, given that they are in accordance with the constitutionality and legality of the state of Serbia? So, an independent organisation may be a wish, based on the Agency Act, that it be independent, but if the Government condition them for all of these items, and even for financial ones, there is a preamble here, if no financial plan can be adopted how can funds be spent, well, then how can this agency be independent? If it is the Government who chooses the members of the Agency, who has a wide range of opportunities to create a media image, then how can it be independent, remains a question? Then, here it says - the supervision of the legality and integrity of the Agency's work in the pursuit of entrusted tasks is done by the Ministry. The Ministry is part of the government. So it's not the court or the judicial authorities, it's the government's work, it's again proof that she's not independent. The mode of operation of the Agency shall be governed by the statute, which shall be adopted by the Management Board. I told you how members of the board are elected. In the statutes of the Agency, consent is given by the Government. Now, not that the government has consent to the statutes, let's say the Assembly did, that it would be a debate in the Assembly, that it would be more legitimacy than the statutes, but you didn't see it coming. The Agency shall adopt sub-legislative acts, decide on the rights and obligations of operators, users, etc., etc. In Article 10, I have already said – the board of directors has presidents, deputies and board members, elects and resolves the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. Now tell me, when did the National Assembly adopt something or not, resolve someone without it being a proposal from the Government? When could that happen? When did the National Assembly adopt the opposition's proposal? Therefore, the National Assembly is acting on a proposal from the government, even it is compromised in this case. The assembly board can't make any proposals, but the government has to. I will remind you again how members of the RRA are elected: two through the Assembly Committee, in which DS has a majority, so the Assembly is marginalized in any case. The Director of the Agency has a five-year mandate and may be re-elected. It doesn't say how many times, it only applies to board members. So, the director of the agency can be a life director, like Tijanic in RTS. The board members can be changed, and someone can be in two terms a member of the board of directors and then become director. These inexplicable things in this law can lead to quite an abuse. There are still other objections, for example, said the position of the Republic Agency for the work of electronic communications is specialised with the task of determining operators with significant market power. Who measures the significant market power of the operator? Who created the possibility of an operator now, the finance? So whoever has the money will be able to participate in this game, and whoever doesn't have the money won't have the option because his position will be defined through the agency. He says, further – The Agency performs its tasks as entrusted and is obliged to perform them impartially and publicly and functionally and financially independently. It's due, so it doesn't have to. Having a duty doesn't mean being carried out. If a violation of this law is advertised by the Ministry, which agrees that something does not have to – what is the criminal policy of this law? In Article 137. ( 138. 139. 140.) Penalties are given. It is said that, in accordance with the law, the Agency adopts sublegal acts. Sublegal acts have not yet been passed. They have yet to be passed by the Agency. And now the Agency is going to pass a sublegal act by which it should act. Well, of course he's going to bring something that suits her - whether something's going to hang on the site, whether something's going to be available to the public or not. What has attracted my attention is Article 41 of point 8 which says:'supervising the protection of personal and user privacy data, as well as assessing the security and integrity of electronic communications networks and services, including security policies'. What does "security policy" mean? Here, we're politicians, you could explain it a little bit better. Now one operator attacks one political party – for political security he has some privileges that no other operators have? Either political security can not apply to those political parties, or their political security, which are the opposition, and those political parties that are the authority to give them privileges because of political security. I think the term political security is something that can be pretty much misused. We were talking about a previous law that had some problems. These problems are not defined by this law. Then we said, if you want to follow the EU accession process, then you want to comply with their regulations. You do not respect their regulations, well, not even the European Community, nor the legislation, which stemmed from the need for effective support for the accelerated development of electronic communications technology. The Telecommunications Act, if you are following the EU accession, must be harmonised so that the sublegal acts are in line with the relevant EU rules, and you are in line with what suits you and what does not suit you, when you have to comply with it, you are calling for EU regulations. EU practice is that Member States do not adopt national standards and technical regulations, but apply agreed harmonised standards, except in the case of radio equipment that is not standardised in the EU area, and then has a standard technical examination of permits. That's what we're talking about here. These regulations, which the Agency adopts, relate only to the use of telecommunications networks of systems and funds, and not to design, installation and maintenance. In this bill, you even have restitution, maltenes, expropriation, land disposal for the need to set up a network, and you are calling for the Law on Planning and Construction, the Environmental Protection Act, to build a telecommunications network infrastructure. It says - you can build an object. What kind of facility is this, who's going to build this facility if there's no possibility of funding in law? From what, how do you make one building out of the agency's income? If that's possible, we'll agree to that, if we take into account the fees of board members, directors and everything else, those revenues can't cover it. The Agency shall, as a regulatory body, influence the details of the technological process of installing the equipment and identifying the operator whose electoral principle of design of the selection of equipment. There's the money. The telecommunications networks of the system, the means, can be built without prior approvals of the Agency, on the basis of permits issued under the Law on Planning and Construction, in cases where equipment is built on the ground, which will not be required again if equipment is added for the extension of capacity and promotion of technology, rather than making new ones. I have tried through some examples not to disenfranchise this law, with your will and desire to follow EU or even this agreement that we have on the agenda, requires financial resources, trust in institutions, a practice that shows that there is no abuse in granting permits to broadcasters, etc., and also favouring certain media houses that are financially beneficial to these others. This specifically applies to radio emitters. Not everyone is in a financial position to live on commercials because they don't have ratings, so some regional, some RATEL shut down, some were favored, some were supposed to shut down, so there wasn't and there was politicization of the whole case. Therefore, the Agency cannot have the justification for its existence to be independent. It can be independent if no other decision is made, except by itself, and if the law adopted in the Assembly corresponds to the court and not to the Ministry, as well as if members of the boards of directors are elected in another way, and not determined by the Government by the competition, and the Director is elected by the Government, who can be a long-term director, and members of five years, two mandates for a decade. In ten years, this is scheduled by 2012, in fact in two years we will have people from the Broadcasting Agency in this agency because it is renamed. That's the essence of mistrust. If mistrust is acquired in practice, before the law enters into force, then it will remain so after its entry into force. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41290	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Stevanovic is not here. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has the president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Mr Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41291	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to advertise a Rules of Procedure that was harshly violated. It is very ugly to know for who knows which time, in this House, neither when the sessions are scheduled nor what the working bodies are doing, nor how they do, nor when who decides, absolutely. You are now concluding the principle debate of the heads of Parliament's groups on the agenda, which is scheduled for today's session in 14 hours. Today, at 14 o'clock, we will hold the Committee in Hall 3, where this is to be discussed and some recommendations, opinions, etc., and until then the debate will be concluded in principle. Therefore, can there be any order in parliament's work already? Can something ever go the way the Rules of Procedure demands? This is a rude violation. Here's the agenda, I don't know what we should discuss at 14 o'clock on the Committee, Madam Minister, if you've done everything in advance? As it was the other day, a session of the Assembly is scheduled in Smederev. The "refinery" is under discussion, and the president of the municipality signed a decision to build a refinery six months ago. Now he can't get the quorum together, he retroactively votes it out. The councils are bought, traded, what is not done there, the president comes, you hold the board of directors, etc., to convince people to finish something that was signed in advance, without any consent. This is incomprehensible to me, and this is not the first time that the parent committee has discussed anything since the assembly debate was concluded. I would really ask the competent services of this Parliament to take care of that, if I may. If I can't, then we, this auxiliary working body, just shut it down. It's no use. Why are we meeting, what are we discussing? There's gonna be someone out there who's gonna take an opinion, and they're gonna have the right to speak, and they're gonna have the right to clarify that, and it's all over. Therefore, I cannot understand that someone has been humiliating and demeaning the Serbian parliament's institution for years. It's happened more than once. I cannot understand that one concession that has passed in this House is being created by some infrastructure committee whose head is the president of Serbia, and then to abolish the parliament's decision that has been made. How is that possible? So, really please, take care, because this really doesn't make sense, and we've lost our sense of any dating. Do we have committee heads here to resign? Are you seriously counting on these committees? Now the board members will come, they've already gathered, what are we going to talk about now, when you're all done in advance? So much and thank you. I find this all pointless. I would also ask the president, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to warn her that the session is scheduled in time for working bodies to work, to do all of this in the same way as the Rules of Procedure for the work of this Parliament. Thus, simply, Article 104 was broken, a member of the 27th session was broken, of course, and a member who spoke about the work of working bodies to be involved in parliament's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-07-0.u41292	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Serbia on the Community programme "The Programme for Support for the Development of Information and Communication Technologies Policy (ICT PSP) of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP) (2007 to 2013)". This is where we ended our work on the tide today. I am scheduled to proceed for Tuesday, 8 June 2010, starting at 10.00 p.m., on the agenda of the President's or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, by applying Article 235 and by way of a follow-up to item 2) of the agenda. It is on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Agreement establishing a Regional School for State Administration (RESPA).
