ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38439	Dear presidents, honourable vice presidents, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission... Mr. Nikolic, please sit down. Sit down, they're distracting me. I would ask you, Madam President, to give a public notice to Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, as you recently did to the Minister of Sport Snezana Markovic, for disrespecting the National Assembly and for not answering the questions I asked. Since I have to ask that question again, and I have another one saved, I think you should give me some time. That's your will. It is 515 million dinars that have been robbed by Serbian citizens through fraud, which unfortunately has been broadcast at the Public Service, and on some other TVs, and it is a question -- where I have concluded that from the seized cars, 53, several apartments, that it is 100 million. So 400 million dinars don't know where it is. Mr. Comrade Tijanic is (President: Gentlemen of Parliament, please let us hear Mr. Markicevic. I'm really not in a position to follow. Gentlemen, please be quiet. ) replied that some of these funds had been paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. I believe, according to the country's laws, that the funds, which have been collected in a deceitful manner, by Serbian citizens, should be blocked. So what's up with that? That was my question, and the Minister didn't answer me until today, so I'm asking you to intervene. The question I have for today concerns the sale of the public company Telecom, and I will be free, though without these people's permission, but it's being broadcast on the site of "Balkan Magazine," where it was sent an open letter to the President of the Republic, to quote a few questions, and you will see who these people who asked these questions. The first question for the Prime Minister and Minister of Telecommunications, which reads: What experts, named, last name and reference, participated in the development of the study – Justification of sales of "Telecoma"? The public doesn't know yet. The second question, what are the reasons for the multiple increase in the subscription without reason, when it is obvious that by selling a dominant operator, money will be poured over to a direct foreign buyer from the pockets of citizens, state administration, companies, institutions of public importance? A subscription to telephone services, on the phone as the people say, silently, that no one from the government said who approved it, which is justification, was doubled a few days ago. I want to remind the citizens, and also your president, that a year ago, 63%, I think, is an increased service. In my opinion, it's an open robbery of citizens. Next question, how much is expected to reduce the number of employees in Telecom Serbia, the public company PTT Serbia and the telecommunications industry? How does the state plan to deprive that part of the Telecom user who has invested funds back decades in providing technical conditions for a telephone connection? My smallness is one of those citizens and millions of Serbian citizens have invested their money, personal money to get phone lines and numbers, and in cables, and in telephone columns, and now someone wants to sell it. Is this where it's done like the famous "News" privatisation that someone's already got the bracelet? Just on the basis of an increase in the phone subscription of 80m euros, we do not know who it will be paid to, and already the sparrows on the branch know which company will "get" in the tender. "In the hope of paying attention to our questions, we warmly welcome you. "Now, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia, who ask that question, and I, not with their permission, join them with modesty – Dr Aleksandra Smiljanic, the previous Minister of Telecommunications, Dr Vera Vratusa, Prof. Belgrade University, Dr. Nebojsa Popov, scientific adviser, Dr. Branko Kovacevic, a regular professor – Belgrade University Rector, Dr. Borisvoje Lazic, a regular professor of Belgrade University...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38440	Time. Thank you. You had ten seconds longer. It took so long to warn. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38441	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am also asking a question – when will I get answers to questions asked from previous sessions? I asked a question to get me all the transformations on the News Company. It's not done. I asked the question – is it true that Luke "Belgrade" accounts in December were around 42 million and 300,000 euros? Until today, I have not received an answer, and we have information that Verica Barac, president of the Anti-Corruption Council, sent a letter to Boris Tadic, warning him of a crime related to the privatisation of Luke "Belgrade". This now really exceeds all possible measures and boundaries – in which we live. It simply gives the impression that this is an absolute mob state with the help of a government that allows what is absolutely visible not to be exposed and that those responsible do not come under the influence of the law because those who would have to do so would also come under the influence of the law. What's particularly interesting, when some things start and get to court, then we have the fact that we're meeting something that none of you could believe could happen. You had a chance to read about Mr. Radulovic, former director of C Market yesterday, and a warrant was taken off, and he didn't. You can see from everything that he seems to be a new protected witness to shed some light on the privatisation of the C Market. Yesterday there was a debate in the court on the matter, and when the judge ordered the server to bring the documentation regarding the C Market, the server went away, came back and said there was no documentation, that it was immersed. Just imagine in the Special Court, one of the institutions that should protect the documentation to be like NBJ, the lawyers went to see the basement rooms, and those flooded. Who are you lying to? How long are you gonna lie? Imagine, in the Special Court, submerged documentation? That's how it's going to happen now for "News", then for Luka Belgrade, in turn. I ask the question: when are we finally going to get the answer that Hope Kolundji asked for regarding the privatisation of Luke Belgrade? There's one interesting thing. On 20 February 2008, the Anti-Corruption Council sent all this material to some individuals, so that Hope Kolundzija doesn't have to ask questions at all to the government, then it seems hypocritical to me – Hope Kolundzija asks the government a question, and on 20 February 2008, the privatisation papers were delivered to the Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic? Why is he asking the government? Ask Boza, the Duke of Meridian Bank, Minister of Economy Mladjan Dinkic, Director of the Action Fund Aleksandr Gracac, president of the Committee of Papers of Milko Štimc, then the republican public prosecutor Slobodan Radulovic. When you look at this, then it's quite clear. You protect criminals, and together with criminals, you do all these things, and when it comes to data, instead of going to law enforcement, you do everything you can to make sure that this is not brought to trial. If they do, then the evidence magically disappears or the room sinks. I ate a wolf ass and nothing, but one day you'll have to answer, I hope after the first election.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38442	An authorised representative of the DSS, Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the yellow folder, means organized crime. It's a question from that area. I have the same problem as the previous colleagues who spoke. However, I'm used to it, no one has answered a single question for more than a year. Are my questions so complicated, I really don't know, or are the answers complicated. Last time I asked a question, that was 40 days ago. I put them directly up to the Prime Minister sitting here, looking at the balcony. He didn't answer anything, he asked me a question, like it was a day to ask questions to MPs and not to the government, and later I didn't get an answer in writing. In light of the announced fight against organised crime by this authority, I would like to specify the issue, and today I will specifically say to whom I am clearly asking this question in the hope that within a few days provided for by our Rules of Procedure, I will get an answer. In fact, organized crime in both theory and practice does not exist and cannot develop without the support of influential individuals from government or some institutions in power. You know very well that what I was saying 40 days ago is about that big affair or the big attempted arrest, they're on the run, the Saric crime group, after being arrested in South America, confiscating huge amounts of cocaine, which is what this government boasted along with an American anti-narcotics agency DEA. At that time, I made it clear that all of this was connected to the related Anton Stanaj, who was arrested with us, convicted, one of the co-owners of Montenegro's Rocksped firm. In yesterday's newspaper, "Today" you have, gentlemen MPs, an entire pyramid in Serbia going to the companies they bought. After his arrest, it was mostly the cancellation of these privatisations, but what you tried to replace the thesis in the whole discussion media when questions were asked, you asked questions about how they did, how they dealt with all these. I made it clear that as a group dealing with drug trafficking since 2004, some of them were arrested in 2007, such as Brother Dark Saric, Arse Saric, in Belgrade, with 20kg of heroin. However, what is their business and where they appear in the second half of 2008, since you were the government, which is shopping, you obviously wouldn't even know that Dea didn't discover them as a criminal group and that they are in Vojvodina, it's buying all these companies that were bought by Anton Stanaj through the capital of the first Montenegrin bank and "Metals Bank", where AP Vojvodina held the money and held the day-to-day, and bought that bank to make it the first Vojvodina Development Bank, bought through the Action Fund and the same company. So she was shopping on the stock market. When the privatisations were annulled, in this way, at the time of your government, they came to Vojvodina and bought these companies and if this cocaine thing hadn't been discovered in South America, they probably wouldn't have been chased or arrested. As many people as there are here, I will say just one name, I have already mentioned it – Zoran Copic-Kopa. I received a conclusion from IKL workers signed by man as chairman of the Management Board of the company on 26 January 2010, and he has been under investigation since Stanaj, since 2007. A man signs and runs a company and nobody does anything. Otherwise, it is important to establish the participation of individuals and the participation of institutions. My question for Miljko Radisavljevic, special prosecutor for organised crime – is there an investigation in the case of Saric in the direction of co-workers among individuals in power, in the institutions of the Serbian state, and will, if such an investigation is conducted, and when will the arrest of the same and the prosecution take place? (President: finish your sentence.) Well, I guess I can finish the question, huh? (President: finish the sentence, not the question. Well, a sentence is a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38444	Mr. Zoran Ostojic, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38445	Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, yesterday we talked about regions with Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mr Dinkic. Some were cursing, and we were talking. My question is addressed to Mr Dinkic, and it concerns the next one. Mr Dinkic has jurisdiction over tourism in his portfolio. It would be said by his activities that he is very interested in tourism. I'm not just talking about those lifts he built at 1,000 meters above sea level, I'm talking about this easy cash and cash loans for tourism development, or tourism organizations. But within 80km of Belgrade, Arangelovac, one of the oldest spas in Serbia, is located. The A.R.A. doesn't have the status of a spa. So, the loss of the status of the spa, which is all abandoned and in poor condition, and indeed in Arangelovac tourism in Serbia began to develop in the last century, has disastrous consequences for the city, which already has 5,000 unemployed at the moment. Because of its lack of status, Aranjelovac is not in a tourist offer, it cannot apply to EU funds that encourage the development of Banjska tourism, in the end, is not on the lists of tourism ministers and ministries. Because of this, it seems to us that Mr Dinkic, in his leadership of the Ministry, is still more of a personal and party interest, where G 17 is strong, or some future sister partner party, in that new party you are making, there goes the money to that end or town or municipality. And where there is no interest, such as the Arangelovac, it comes down to it – that, behold, the oldest Banja in Serbia does not have the status of a spa. So my question is - why doesn't Mr Dinkic take care of the Arangelovac? Why don't you give him his spa status back? Because if he can send economic representatives to Australia, he can jump 80km from Belgrade and see what potential it is, what tradition it is. The fact that an Aryan had the power he had can't be a reason for us to treat this city like this. I am convinced that the upcoming election in Arangelovac and the campaign will lead to the fact that Mr. Minister will stop by Arangelovac and at least tell the citizens - when will the Arangelovac get the status of the spa again? If he fails to do so there, I hope he answers this question within the time limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38446	Does anyone else want to go by Article 235? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Đuro Peric and Riza Halimi. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the meetings, in addition to the representatives of the promoters, Prof. Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, to attend both Nevena Karanovic and Perisa Simonovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, and Zorica Pavlovic, Assistant Minister of Health. We move on to a common principle search of the 6th and 7th points of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE PROTECTION OF POSITIONS FROM THE DUVANS DIM AND A PROPOSAL OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND MEDICINAL PRODUCTS BEFORE WE GO TO WORK (Minister Tomica Milosavljevic enters the hall. ..... Hello, there you are. Dear People's MPs, I would like to remind you that today marks the World Day of Roma and allow this occasion to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, all the citizens of Serbia on Roma nationality this day. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on items 6 and 7 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that according to Article 94. [[Applause]] The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours and shall be distributed in the following way: Parliament's Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to file a statement, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform the MPs' groups that they have been authorised by the MPs: MP Nikola Krpic, MP of the PUPS; MP Zoran Bortic, MP of the SPS - JS, MP Simo Vukovic, MP group G 17 plus, MP Zoran Shami, MP of the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica, MP Gordana Comic's MP for European Serbia, as well as MP Paja Momcilov, the SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 42(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the proposal for a law on the protection of the population from exposure to tobacco smoke and the proposal for a law on medicines and medical means. Does the representative of Professor Tomica Milosavljevic, the health minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38447	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the agenda of the National Assembly of Serbia to discuss the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the Law on the Protection of Population against exposure to tobacco smoke. The Act on Medicinal Products and Medical Resources, which is in force, was adopted in the National Assembly in August 2004, is one of the first laws of the Republic of Serbia to initiate a harmonisation procedure with EU legislation. For its implementation over several years, several sublaws and medicinal products and medical resources have been introduced in Serbia to a significant extent over the past few years. The papers envisioning a new law on medicines and medical resources, which lies ahead, represent a significant step forward in harmonising these regulations, in line with the latest and safest rules, which define the area of medicines and medical resources in the modern international environment. I would just briefly remind myself that in this law, after months of discussion and agreeing with a large range of professionals dealing with the production and transport of drugs, then in a discussion conducted within a network of health institutions in Serbia, this law provides for a new definition of drug and certain types of medicines, herbal, biological and immunological, advanced therapy drugs, radiopharmaceuticals, traditional medicines, homeopathic, freeway, galenic, drug with well-known use, drug reference, medicine containing a fixed combination of active substances, a cure with information about consent. The law defines the marketing authorisation holder. The law defines data protection for the medicinal product used in human medicine. The authorisation of a medicinal product under the accelerated procedure is also provided for in this regulation for medicinal products of the highest interest in the health of the population, particularly in relation to therapeutic innovations, as well as for medicinal products authorised under the centralised procedure at the European Medicines Agency EUKEB, 150 days in this case. Then, a conditional authorisation shall be defined, which shall be granted, subject to the condition of the proposing, to fulfil certain specific obligations, which the Agency shall verify once during the year, until the conditions for granting a regulatory authorisation for the medicinal product are met for a period of five years. It shall also be defined under specific circumstances, which shall be issued within 12 months for a medicinal product of particular public-health interest, subject to the obligation of the proposer to meet the conditions in relation to the safety of the medicinal product and to inform the Agency of any adverse event, of the safety measures taken, so that this authorisation can be renewed under special circumstances. Further, the authorisation of the medicinal product is also defined for unlimited time, for which the authorisation has been granted and for which the Agency finds it safe, based on pharmacovigilance data over a period of five years from the date of issue. If, on the basis of these requirements, the Agency finds that the medicinal product is not safe, it shall issue a licence for five years at the most, and then shall be obliged to withdraw that authorisation. There is a regimen for the issue of medicines with subcategories, i.e. medicines that are issued on a prescription for multiple, renewable or single publication, then medicines that are issued with a special prescription, medicines that are issued on a prescription with a restriction of use in certain specialised areas. The law also defines the area as being placed on the market within three years of obtaining a marketing authorisation, unless there is a marketing authorisation, the Agency shall decide to suspend the validity of the authorisation, which is a very important measure. The quality control of the medicine of the agency is carried out before the authorisation is issued, and the systematic emergency and examination of the quality of sensitive medicines and after the authorisation has been issued. The law provides for simplification of procedures in line with modern European experience, so that the agency does not exercise laboratory quality control of each batch of imported medicine. Time limits are set in which the Agency is required to carry out quality control and issue a certificate and that is precisely defined as 30 days from the date of application. Documentation control within eight days, when samples are sent to other laboratories within 45 days and for vaccines, serums, blood medicines and immunological medicines within 60 days. The area of production of medicinal products with licences of a qualified pharmacist responsible for the release of a batch of medicinal products has been defined. The licence may also be withdrawn and the date of entry into force of this provision from 1 January 2012. The production authorisation shall also indicate the place of placing the medicinal product on the market, establish the conformity of production with Good Manufacturing Practice Guidelines, i.e. the laboratory examination in accordance with Good Laboratory Practice. The certification of good manufacturing or laboratory practice shall then be carried out for a period of three years and shall apply to each place in the production, i.e. quality control and placing on the market. The obligation to notify the competent ministry of any change in the place of production, place of control and release of the medicinal product is regulated, the qualified pharmacist is also defined as well as any accidents or errors in production, the duty of continuing supply of the market according to the list provided annually to the ministry. The wholesaler is defined in this law with the obligation to continue supplying medicinal products in accordance with the permit. It also defines the obligation of a timely start-up of imports and obtaining a quality certificate in order to avoid interruptions in supply. Medical resources shall be defined by enrolment in the medical register of the Agency on the basis of compliance certificates. The new regulation provides for the abolition of quality control of each batch of imported medical products and recognition of the European quality certificate. The price of medicines, as regards criteria and concrete prices, is left to the government's authority, but is foreseen for medicines issued without a prescription for free market price formation. The transitional deadline for harmonisation is 18 months from the date of entry into force of the law, and the inspection will issue new permits within three years on the basis of the inspection report. Regional pharmacovigilance centres are defined in the field of pharmacovigilance of undesirable effects. The new drug and medical law should represent a significant step in harmonising the rules of the Republic of Serbia with high EU rules. We believe that the adoption of a new law on medicines and medical resources by the Serbian Parliament will make a significant step for the citizens of Serbia, as it was in 2004, when the adoption of the first system law in the field of health care, namely the drug law and medical means, marked the adoption of new rules that significantly improved the health system. The reasons for the adoption of laws on the protection of the population from exposure to tobacco smoke are numerous and also include the continuity of the work that we have been doing together for the past few years. This law regulates the restrictions on the use of tobacco products to protect the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, control of smoking bans and control of the implementation of this law. The reason is, above all, that systemically regulates the protection of the population from exposure to tobacco smoke in accordance with scientific evidence, which means completely removing tobacco smoke from space, given that there is no safe level of exposure to tobacco smoke. In Serbia, according to population health research data conducted in 2006, 33% of adults smoke daily or occasionally, or 38% of men and 29% of women. Compared to 2009 research, thanks to joint efforts, the rate of smoking was reduced by 6.9%, 9.8% in men and 3.8% in women. According to a global survey on the planet, the use of tobacco in young people in the world is 17.3% of students aged 13-15 who suggest that they use some tobacco product, a cigarette 8.9%, mostly in Europe and America, and least in Southeast Asia and the eastern Mediterranean. In Serbia 2008, 8.8% of boys and 8.3% of girls aged 13-15 say they smoke cigarettes. Tobacco smoke is most often exposed in public and workplaces and in their homes and cars. This law on the basis of evidence, based on positive experience in tobacco control, defines, first of all, the initial part of the law tobacco product, tobacco smoke, smoke free without tobacco smoke, indoor space, work space, public space and public transport, responsible person for controlling the smoking ban is the person who manages the work, the catering facility, the useful area, the catererer. Smoking is prohibited in any closed working and public space under conditions defined by this law. Smoking is also prohibited in an area which is not considered to be closed within the meaning of this law, which is a functional part of the area in which health work, education and education is performed, social care for children, social protection, including the courtyard, as well as open space for the maintenance of theatre, cinema and other types of performances. In a closed working space, a special smoking room cannot be established exclusively for the employer's activity, but this exception does not apply to state administration and local self-government, health care, education, child welfare, social protection, culture, sport and recreation, production, control and transport of medicines, production, accommodation and transport of life-forms, social nutrition, media and public broadcasting, meetings and public gathering of citizens. By passing this law, Serbia will take a significant step towards a consistent implementation of a clear strategy for the control of tobacco and clear internationally accepted public-health documents. This law provides for exemptions from smoking bans and they relate to certain conditions in catering facilities. Therefore, the responsible person in the catering facility can implement a smoking ban in all rooms, but if the total area needed is greater than 80 square meters then the space can be divided. The sign that smoking is allowed must be highlighted. If the area is more than 80 squares and this object is not in the composition of another area in which smoking is prohibited, a special room may be specified. As you know, because I am sure you have carefully examined the members of this law, it is quite clear that we are taking this regulation to make a significant step forward in the direction of tobacco control and in the direction that we all need, and this direction is to improve and safeguard the health of Serbian citizens, reduce deaths and disability from those diseases that can be prevented by changing behaviour. Change in behavior is the hardest. Healthy lifestyles are difficult to conquer but are reaching goals. I am sure that in 2010, in which this very important step is measured by carefully analysing scientific evidence and conducting a very extensive discussion and respecting all the international experiences and the real environment and that it will serve all the representatives of the People's Will in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38448	Do the officials of the committees want the word - the Legislative Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic? (No) National MP Verica Radeta, who gave an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, when considering these proposals? Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38449	Ladies and gentlemen, these two laws should be the subject of people from the profession and in the SRS MPs, doctors will certainly talk from a medical point of view about these proposals. But this smoking ban law, I think it can also be observed from a human rights aspect. It is rigorous and excessive what is provided for in this law and if it is adopted this way, it will also have bad consequences in many segments of our society. What is a fact, unfortunately, in the state of Serbia there are many problems and many more evils than tobacco itself. Of course we are for the protection of the health of the population in every way, and we are for protection against tobacco smoke, but it's interesting that every day in black chronicles we can read what someone in alcoholized does. You're not doing anything. The minors go into cafes, the minors buy alcohol, the state authorities do nothing. Every day and every corner, they don't want a new bookie. It's a classic cube, of which the state benefits. Anyone who walks past any bookies can see underages walk into those bookies. No inspection, no state, no interest in that. We have the biggest problem, not only in Serbia, but probably in the world, and that's the drug problem. Besides talking about fighting a drug addict, you haven't really done anything like the state. You're in no condition to drive drugs out of the schoolyards, let alone from somewhere else. About a month, a month and a half ago, we read in a daily newspaper, or we could read, an interview, for example, by Alexander Vukic, who says -- when they come, God forbid, they will try to reduce the price of drugs on the streets in Belgrade, and if they do not do so in six months, they will withdraw from power. You didn't react publicly as a minister or anyone to such a statement. So this law could be applied from the point of view of the SRS to that saying – The village is burning and the grandmother is combing. There are a lot more problems, Mr. Minister, in this society than there are amendments to this law, and besides, we have this smoking ban law. What did you do? Where did you apply it? Of course, it's inapplicable, and so will the one that's being discussed today and that's likely to be adopted. You say you meet certain conditions of the European Union. Yesterday, an assistant in your ministry at the Legislative Committee said that in 2012, the EU will bring some recommendations and criteria that you today, as a psychic, are installing into the law. Who are you courting and for what? What is also very interesting and what all the MPs and citizens of Serbia need to know, for these two laws, ministers, you do not have the consent of the Health Committee. If the President of Parliament were to correctly interpret the Rules of Procedure, we would not even be able to discuss these proposals today. Do you know, dear citizens, why the Health Committee has not given any opinion, either positively or negatively, on these two proposals? Because the chairman of this committee, Dr. Pai Momchilov, was a Serbian radical, because the day the proposals were discussed there was a quorum and after the debate it was obvious that the Committee would have the majority to give a negative opinion on these proposals. Then the ruling majority MPs left the Committee, so that the Committee would lose the quorum and that it could not give an opinion. This is the relationship of the ruling majority, not only according to these laws of yours, Minister, but in general with the problems in the state of Serbia. When someone asks you why there are no MPs in the O.R., you say they work on boards. Of course, they are obstructing the work of the board and that is what is not good for parliamentary work in this country. As for the professional work and the reasons why the MPs of the SRS will not vote for this law, this will be very comprehensive and detailed, as each time, Mr Minister, more professional than you doctors of the SRS will speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38450	Do the MPs Radica Jocic, Momir Markovic and Sladjan Mijaljević, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration, when considering, want a word? (Yes) Mr. Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin this law, I will ask the Minister of Health, yesterday or the day before yesterday, I read in the paper his statement that he, the Ministry, but read him, the rest of the vaccine that was imported against swine flu, will give to those who are poorer than us, so I ask the Minister... (President: Please, the Institute of Asking Questions is not today. Stick to the agenda. ) As part of this law, I will still ask the minister who authorised him to have the property of Serbian citizens in this way and did Miskovic accidentally give up those two euros per dose? (President: Mr. Markovic, I warn you to stick to the agenda. I suppose he didn't give up, but so we don't insult Mr. Miskovic, because he's the sponsor of many of these parties, I'll go back to the topic, so let me ask the other minister, if you'll excuse me. Why does a positive list of medicines change every two months, or three months? It's part of a discussion about this law, you don't have to interrupt me. Why are producers from Serbia being removed from the positive list, while the producers of Krka, Pliva, Alkaloid, etc. are being inserted? I assumed, Mr. Todorovic, that it was a commission, but I have to ask. The fact is that every two or three months a positive list is changed, but the fact is that the price of drugs on each new positive list is far higher, especially medicines not in that positive part, or in the part for which the state pays. There's one more thing that's about health care, and it's not defined enough by this law, it's a terrible burden on the doctor's office. Today, a doctor has to receive 35-40 patients, not what he's looking at, but the other part you've loaded with, and it's about clean administration, codes and everything. He needs to spend seven minutes per patient just writing paperwork and has a few minutes left to examine the patient. However, something much more dangerous and much worse for the citizens of Serbia, and this law is not defined, and should, these are restrictions on the list of medicines. For example, you have patients who have breast cancer surgery. After that primary cytostatic therapy and all the other medications, she has five years to drink a medicine called nolvadex, and you've limited her to go to an office doctor every two months to get her prescription back in order to get her medicine for the next two months. If it's not her office doctor, it's someone who's changing it, then it's only for a month. There's one more thing, this nolvadex, besides being an exceptional cure, there are many accompanying phenomena that occur in patients, sometimes very difficult. There's a cure, and you know it, which is called, if I'm rightly prescribed, "femara" that has much less side effects than that drug, but unfortunately more expensive, costs about tens of thousands somewhere. That drug is not prescribed to patients. On the Committee on European Integration, your deputy or assistant said the Ministry saved 800 million dinars in a year, if I understood correctly. That's how you saved up the fact that you forced citizens, sick citizens, to buy drugs in this other way, and then the ministry saved themselves. There's one more thing, Mr. Minister, that I'd have to draw your attention to. It's about diabetes medicines, so diabetes, and there are huge restrictions, that human insulin, which is given as much as I understand by those pens of so-called, can't be obtained unless it's acute diabetes, or if it's been taking this classic insulin for two years. You're bringing people who are permanently ill into the situation that, despite their poor budget, I'm just finishing one more sentence. (President: Time. ) and one more thing just another sentence, please. (President: Can't, really, can't say a sentence, but really... I'm sorry for these two seconds, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38452	National MP Sladjan Mijaljevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38453	President-in-Office, I have issued an opinion on the Committee on European Integration on these two laws, so the proposal for a law on the protection of the population from exposure to tobacco smoke and the proposal for a law on medicines and medical means. These laws, in my opinion, will experience the fate of their predecessors, or will not be fully implemented or will only be selectively implemented. We make laws like we work on norms. We work about two and a half shifts. We've passed thousands of laws, and how many have really been brought into life, that's a big question, and that's what these Western mentors of yours resent, especially from the EU. Therefore, laws are not implemented or fully implemented. I am truly expressing a serious skepticism that these laws will be brought to life, especially the Law on the Protection of Peoples against exposure to tobacco smoke. Perhaps only in some part when someone campaigns against tobacco smoke, and for personal wealth or wealth to lead that campaign, perhaps in that part of that campaign, the awareness of a smoker works out, so spares us exposure to tobacco smoke in really countless places, spaces, closed and open in this country. I'm expressing my skepticism, and for that reason, let's just say, look at the state institutions, where you're strongest, ever since you open the door of some state-owned institution, you're burned by tobacco smoke, and until you get outside, you're constantly wrapped in tobacco smoke. You could've at least walked out without feeling it, and today you can't even get through the park without getting blown up by tobacco smoke. It seems to me that this is already the third draft law or third law to be passed on this topic against tobacco smoke protection in the country of Serbia, but nothing has been done so far and will not be done. You'll get the law, you'll have the cover on paper, you'll get some praise from the EU, but in real life, you've been free. Far from being against this law, but I don't believe you have the desire and the strength to carry it out. On the one hand, you have a party president, Deputy Prime Minister, who lays stone foundations, opens factories in Vojvodina, Serbia, to process tobacco and make cigarettes, and you now need to work against it and protect us from tobacco smoke. I think the repressions you're going to have over certain people and people who have some locals or some companies will be much more over them, that private sector than in the state institutions themselves. If you succeed, you can also experience failure or a negative assessment from the government's own people, and if you succeed many people in Serbia can be grateful. But this will also be a dead letter on paper. All you need is something that brings you some points, populist points and praise from the EU, and tobacco smoke will continue to surround us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38454	National MP Radica Jocic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on European Integration, I have issued an opinion on both of these draft laws and I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the Committee on European Integration, as I have heard here and on the Committee on Health, the bill was not explained by the minister, which is not common practice, but by someone from his ministry. This in some sense becomes clear when it comes to the fact that after an affair with influenza A1H1 vaccines, the population no longer trusts either the minister or the ministry, let alone that some of these laws will be applied properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38456	Mrs. Jocic, you are explaining an individual opinion in relation to the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38457	Yeah. As far as the SRS' proposal to protect the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, it has submitted more than 30 amendments and it is clear to anyone involved in this business that this law wanted to protect non-smokers, as well as to satisfy smokers. The rights of smokers are not abolished by this law, but are only limited, but we have heard from previous exhibitions that this bill, when adopted, will most affected the catering sector, which has recently been treated as an export brand in our country. Due to the inability of a large number of these clubs to share their facilities in the non-smoking and smokers section, many owners will be defined as still being able to smoke in their facilities, which means that the effect of this law on such facilities probably won't be at all, because they expect, if they drastically apply such a law, that the fall in traffic is over 85%. The second objection to this bill is that the Office for the Prevention of Smoking, as well as the Commission for the Prevention of the Use of Tobaccos in this Bill, is repeating, although they already exist, at a republican level, which is known to be the manner of the ruling majority to increase the number of jobs available to party listeners. As a professor of biology, I would like to appeal to the Minister of Health on this occasion that, as much as possible, strengthen co-operation with the Ministry of Education regarding the prevention of smoking in higher classes of primary schools, because among 33% of smokers, as the minister said in the opening exhibition in Serbia, the highest number begins its smoking internship in the upper secondary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38458	At the meeting of the Health and Family Committee, the opinion was set out by Mr Nikola Žutić. Does he want a word? Mr. Paja Momchilov. Yes, please, I'll just read who's got everyone's opinion and the ones they want. In addition to Mr Paja Momcilova, Dusanka Plecevic, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Mr. Zarko Koraić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38459	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable President, the distinguished guests of the Ministry of Health, we have a rare opportunity and an honor to hear Mr. Minister, as we rarely see him on board, probably a man too busy with many duties. It is very difficult for me today to speak in the context of a separate opinion, as a precedent occurred on the Committee. I haven't remembered since I've been here in the assembly benches that something similar to that of the Health Committee has happened. You see, you say the procedure is something that is the basis of democracy and that it should always be respected. If allowed, what happened to this session where these two important laws were discussed? The assembly was called on March 23rd for a session on March 30th. We had a week, and we put 90 laws on the agenda. What caused it? It caused us to have to write amendments to these two very important laws in two days. What is this quality of work, I ask you who are in favour of Europe and of European values. In England, to pass both homes, one law on the Committee must be thoroughly considered and harmonised through three readings, and only then can it be adopted. How do you think we could have given quality amendments to these laws and discussed them in a good way? Well, well, that's how it is. What I must say is, at a neatly called meeting of the Committee on 29 March, which began with a quorum and where there were 10 guests of different institutions, from the Ministry of Health to the civil sector, which you also advocate must be respected, in your projection of a democratic society, there was a miracle. When we approached the vote of support or denied these legal proposals, the quorum disappeared. Who shot him down? Of course, MPs of position. Now, I wonder, what is this really about? I've been thinking, the laws haven't been passed, for the first time since I've been a MP and since I was on the Health Committee, and I've always been on the Health Committee, the first time the laws haven't been supported by the parent board. It is clear to me that even among my honorary colleagues, the good experts sitting on this committee, there are those who cannot respect the moral values they have pledged when they became doctors. They couldn't support these bad laws. Of course, I'll explain in the context of the debate everything that I think is not good with these laws. What is basic, we SRS MPs resent these laws for not being adopted in the interest of Serbian citizens. Since I have only the right to an individual opinion, if we strictly want to see the tobacco law, then why are we against it? Because it is an unnecessary law, inconsistencies, which is full of compromises and which protects tobacco producers and some suspicious profiteers – casinos, casinos, not to mention. Also, the unrealistic solutions that have been offered here, especially in the control and control of the enforcement of legal norms, are what we will certainly and later talk about. Of course, the obnoxious and vague provisions are really funny and do not honor this House if it adopts in this form of the laws. In the debate, of course, we'll explain what I just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38460	Mr. Momchilov, by telling you you can lead the citizens astray. The laws that have been on the agenda in the congregation procedure since December and MPs, of course, since that term, since the law enters the assembly procedure, have been introduced and should be introduced to the content of the laws, to prepare amendments. It could have been the impression that you were tighted out by the time limits around giving your suggestions, which, of course, does not stand. Please, at least my doctors, and you often refer to procedures and ethics, we take care of that, especially when it comes to this matter. National MP, Mrs Dušanka Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, also on the Committee on Health and Family, held on 30 March, I issued an opinion on the law on protecting the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. I don't think this law will be able to apply to the greatest extent in practice, as was not fully applicable to the existing smoking ban law at work, public gatherings, sports events, etc. Why do I think that? Because there is still no will and no condition for such a law, which basically aims to prevent the harmful functioning of tobacco smoke on human health, is essentially implemented. Therefore, this is not the first step in this regard, as we are told by the representatives of the Health Ministry of the Health and Family Committee, but only by harmonising with EU laws in this area. The standards necessary for the application of this law have not been reached, first of all, in terms of health commitment and then materially. Few who can meet the conditions for smokers, especially in catering, where smokers most often gather in large numbers. In Article 6. You say the bill - the smoking room must be equipped with a ventilation system, which is an integral part of the smoking room, which is physically separated from the second ventilation system, with the air with tobacco smoke from the smoking room not passing to other closed rooms located in that closed space. I think these conditions can hardly be provided by people who are engaged in hospitality. In Article 5, you say – if the space of the catering facility cannot be distributed evenly to the area in which smoking is prohibited and the area in which smoking is allowed, the responsible person in the catering facility is obliged to place most of the room, i.e. tables, counters, bars and other areas on which food and drink are served and grouped in a visual continent, determine as the space in which the smoking is prohibited, with that much space next to the entrance to the catering facility. This is obviously one compromise by the legislator that denies the reason for the legislation, which is the total removal of tobacco smoke from space and the effects of law enforcement will remain at the level of the current situation. The second reason I singled out my opinion is in the part that speaks about the control of the smoking ban, which refers to the responsible person in charge of controlling the smoking ban. In Article 14(2), it is not clear what is meant by the person in charge of the control of the smoking ban not to take action to remove a person who, even after an oral order, does not stop smoking if the distance from that space would be denied the exercise of the rights of that person, as well as the persons employed by that employer. In addition to these, there are a number of other remarks that we will discuss in more detail in principle and in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38462	Mr. Momchilov, you signed up, just tell me the basis of the call? According to the Rules of Procedure? Then first Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38463	I would like to call on Article 104, because this is the only possibility that I can point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and inform the citizens of Serbia that the information presented by Mrs Verica is published in the press and technically published as an advocate for a cheaper price of drugs, which will be corrected in tomorrow's issue. I really wouldn't want one of those obvious slips in that list's printing to be used for a campaign against the party I belong to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38464	Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38465	The fact that this is an intervention after about a month and a half speaks for itself. On the other hand, we'll see what happens tomorrow in that denial at the press. Now, the party of the lady who was just here is going to be saying she's representing the attitude, that is, fighting for more expensive drugs. We Serbian radicals think that every party, primarily the state, should and must fight for drug control and the removal of drugs from the streets of Belgrade. The question is who has a responsibility in this country and towards Saric and other drug dealers, but I am a graduate lawyer and I don't want to interfere with the investigation of the authorities, but I only ask them to hurry because it seems that the fact that they've been waiting a little for it to open up a lot of roads, unfortunately, and drugs from further drug dealing in Belgrade and in all of Serbia. Now whether it's at an expensive or cheap price, capitalizing on life and youth, in any case, is that we, the Serbian radicals, are, we're in favour, and we'll always be pushing for the drugs to disappear from the streets in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38466	Mr. Momchilov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38467	Dear President, let me just clarify this problem, I certainly didn't want to deceive the citizens. You see, I have the law here in my hand. On February 26th, we got this bill huge on medications, and here's a look for yourself, and there's a law in front of you, and you'll see. You are right about the tobacco law that arrived in procedure 29 which is much smaller, which is simpler and is not so interesting to consider, and what I think we will agree – Parliament begins working in a regular session on March 1st, we have had a break, whether it is a big one and the bigger the problem that has baffled us, at least in the Health Committee, has been sent to the procedure of the health care plan of the Republic of Serbia which had to be brought long ago and which, for some strange reasons, we have also held a debate in the Committee on this plan, did not enter the procedure, although it was delivered much earlier. There's only so much, and I never wanted to deceive the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38468	It's okay. I just need to have a little comment again. The break in parliament's work doesn't really coincide with the break in the plenary session. Please, we do what we do and when there's no plenary session. Mrs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on Health and Family, I have issued an opinion on the Law on the Protection of Peoples against exposure to tobacco smoke. The Committee's session, as we've heard before, Dr. Pai Momchilov, chairman of the Committee, has been scheduled by the Rules of Procedure. At the beginning of the session, there was a sufficient number of members and the ruling coalition and opposition so that there was a quorum, a agenda was adopted that had two points. The first point was the proposal to protect the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, and the second point was the proposal for a drug law and medical means. After the first point, so when there was a quorum, I singled out an opinion on the bill on protecting the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. After the second act, MPs of the ruling coalition, perhaps if the minister had been there, would not have left the session, because there were 10 guests, representatives of the ministry and from the civil sector, and to the surprise of all the guests, they were one by one leaving the session, so the session ran out of quorum. The committee responsible has remained withheld for a report which, pursuant to Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should propose to the Assembly, i.e. that the Committee declares whether or not to accept the law in principle. The Serbian Radical Party advocates the introduction of order and regulation that is effective, which is enforceable and that will allow systemically protecting the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. This bill of law is everything, it's just not exactly the competent health department wants to present it. The law is neither systemically nor will constitute an institutional framework for protecting residents from exposure to tobacco smoke. He can't be ideal, he can't solve all the problems of the security level of exposure to tobacco smoke, but he can't be as you suggested. This bill is not good because it is the result of compromise. It imposes extreme and unrealistic expectations, so that its implementation is poorly possible. We have submitted amendments to this bill, which tells us what our opinion and attitude are. With our amendments, we want to contribute to the improvement of this bill, that it can be applied, rather than to remain a dead letter on paper, as the current law was adopted in 2005. There's a lot of inaccuracy in the bill, a lack of clarity, which suggests a certain lack of trust in this law. In these few minutes, I will look only at two members, and later, in principle, I will also talk about the other members of the bill. Article 12, which refers to a person in charge of the control of the smoking ban, and Article 14. – obligations of persons in charge of controlling the smoking ban. These two members are particularly controversial today when the explosion of monstrous violence is a day-to-day phenomenon. Transferring the authority of the responsible person, Article 12(2), to other persons opens up the possibility of discrimination, especially women, abuse and abuse, i.e. mobbing at the workplace. Article 14 does not clearly define what it means to take action, which can take the responsible person or the person to whom that person is transferred, to remove from the room a person who does not stop smoking after an oral order. Does taking measures mean verbal communication, or does it allow for physical contact? That's what I'd like later and in the principle debate to explain to the minister in charge of health, here present. I don't think the proposed members are in the interest of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38470	Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38471	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I certainly expected the Minister of Health to be present during the debate on these two laws. Unfortunately, we haven't had a chance to exchange views with him on these two laws, but we'll probably have a chance today. Madam President, I must warn you of certain facts that are happening on the Committee. I have warned you about some things before, which is the lack of quorum or the non-maintainment of certain Committee sessions, which is an obligation under the Rules of Procedure, article 141 speaks of it. I know that you will appeal to the final position of Article 141 that unless the committees deliver an opinion, the law will be discussed in principle and in particular. So it's certainly in the Rules of Procedure. It is simply not good when the Assembly does not have the opinion of the committee responsible, either positively, negatively, or neutrally. What is it that forces the ruling coalition MPs to leave the meeting of the Health and Family Committee in the presence of a large number of civil sector guests, representatives of the ministry? Does such behavior speak of the law itself? There's probably that, too. Certainly, in the presence of all these guests and representatives of the ministry, it is a good opportunity to open up some of the good topics, to discuss them, not to let MPs who want to work on committees put themselves in such a position as to keep guests present at the Committee's session astounded by the behaviour of the MPs. Madam President, the behaviour of some MPs certainly affects what was yesterday's media release like the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia rating. I have warned you several times about these matters and called on Article 27 that you, as president of the National Assembly, are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, that you are obliged to warn the MPs that they are carrying out their work obligations. As far as I can tell, you didn't do it or you weren't energetic enough to warn the MPs to stick to their obligations. How can we now discuss the law when we do not have a report from the committee responsible? We can. We're going to discuss and we're going to say what we think about this law, but it's not good when a Committee that's resolute, which is professional, has no opinion on this law, and we have a very important law in front of us, which is a law on medicines and medical means. The Committee has considered some of the issues related to the law. There was also the opinion of the profession and of a certain kind of grudge, but it was just an amazing thing that the moment when the Committee was due to declare this law to make what happens. It only says enough and quite clearly about the conduct and responsibilities of the ruling coalition's MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38472	I ask the MPs to meet all their obligations, but I am unable to apply educational measures. Mr. Lightfoot.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38473	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the Committee session, I also issued my opinion. Since I have a relatively short period of time at my disposal to expose why I did it, I am only going to talk about a bill on protecting the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. I'm just going to say something about his concept. This law is the result of a compromise. Here is the question – what does our country, not just the Ministry of Health, want in relation to smoking? Does he want a radical cut to reduce the possibility of smoking in different places and thereby indirectly affect the reduction of the number of smokers in our country? Studies in other countries have shown a decrease in the number of smokers if this is limited. Or to make one hybrid law, as Mr. Minister said - half-step to such a law, because in this law we have a whole series of compromises that, for example, are not common in the world? I'm going to say just for example that there's a right to smoke here in certain medical institutions, so let's say psychiatric patients, immobilized patients, etc. I have to say there's almost no country in the world where smoking is allowed, developed countries, in medical institutions. I understand what the motive was. In practice and later on in some research, I was in psychiatric institutions, and I know what smoking addiction means in this type of patient. Here is the key question - what does the state actually want here? Let's not have any theoretical debates here about what the rights of the state are. This is where all the smokers already attacked me, who know me, here in the Assembly, that I don't need such a law, that I should smoke. That's wrong. Let's not have sociological debates about what the state can't and can't. The state can do a lot of things. If the state can limit the speed of the highway, take one analogy, it does so to prevent traffic accidents, the state has the right to interfere in this area and other countries have done so with very dragonous laws. In this law we practically allow catering facilities to be singled out. This in practice means that they will be smoked practically still in catering facilities. Here, though, it should be a catering facility over 80 squares, etc. Many cafes are less than 80 square meters, so as if they won't be allowed to smoke. This is where the institution is introduced, not said, by the persons in charge of law enforcement. It's practically a clerk. I have to say, it's just amazing to me that we have a director. Let the law make a responsible director of an institution or one who runs that facility. The most logical thing for me is for one who has the highest authority to care for law enforcement, not for some director whom no one else will listen to alive, and for us to be absolutely a laughing stock. We don't have a way to implement what we've said here, and that's the one, let's call him, officer, the person in charge of law enforcement, and it's actually the consequence of a compromise that smoking is allowed in these institutions, and smoking should not be allowed in those institutions. I've had opportunities in the world, in many countries to see, if you want the level of smoking ban in public institutions, people going out for example. in Canada at minus 20 in shoes to smoke a cigarette, but no one responds to it, because they think, as this law in the explanation very clearly states, that people are exposed to passive tobacco smoke and that you are simple, ladies and gentlemen, I am a non-smoker, in this country smokers terrorise non-smokers, not vice versa. Excuse me, we non-smokers here are being terrorized, and according to the law, a third of the population in Serbia is about to smoke, we are in the majority. I apologize, two-thirds of Serbia's population, or to say that this percentage is approximate in the world are non-smoking and they have the right to demand their protection. I ask that non-smokings be protected here because it is paradoxical to be protected and smokers, because they are exposed here to the enormous health risks that are listed here for a reason. Let me say this, we have to define ourselves here who we're protecting, are we protecting the tobacco industry, are we protecting the tax, because the very large taxes of the state budget are being filled with cigarettes and tobacco, or are we trying to protect the health of the population? If we have defined ourselves to protect the health of the population, then it must be the law from the beginning. I was in the Serbian Parliament at the time of Milosevic at the time of the 1990s when a anti-smoking law was also passed, which was never applied, because he did not have any criminal measures, by the way. At least this law has the criminal measures that are foreseen. Unfortunately, this famous institution, too, is the director. Gentlemen, in Croatia, when the law was passed that drivers should not have any alcohol, there was a riot of catering facilities. They broke the law and now there's a small percentage of blood alcohol allowed. Is it possible that we in Serbia will actually continue to be victims of a huge lobby, not to say that it is done by the Ministry of Health, tobacco producers, owners of catering facilities and those who are on the side of smokers?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38474	Does the presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38475	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, today when we are discussing a bill on protecting the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, MEPs welcome the proposal to pass this law. For what? Given that nicotineism is a social medical problem, a national strategy against nicotineism is also needed. I place here first as the most responsible Ministry of Health, then the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture. This problem, with the political and professional public, must as a goal be the unification of all social forces in Serbia. It's the only way to organize prevention and reduction of nicotineomania. I remember Skerlic Street number 24 where he was the Institute of Health Education and Dr Kovacevic Nemanja, who was a pioneer of the struggle of what we came to today. I think it's a good way for the Ministry of Health to go with its proposals in terms of protecting Serbia's population's health. It is also necessary to train primary forms of health care, such as health homes, public health institutions, but also in one and the other, and in all health institutions there must be strict rules – doctors without cigarettes in hand in the office. In education teachers without cigarettes in hand in front of students. If we set ourselves up like this, then we will certainly inform students before enrolling in medical or medical schools, teaching schools, philosophical etc. And let's make it clear how inexhaustible the contigent of the problems that many and economic problems arise. The planting of tobacco instead of related cereals, instead of fruits, instead of vegetables, and now imagine, the budget of Serbia that is hard to fill and hard to create, the Ministry of Agriculture gives subsidies to farmers who plant tobacco, and some statistics that are accurate or incorrect, numbers say that in Serbia about 12,000 hectares are planted with tobacco and people get more subsidies for that, and on the other hand we are talking about folk cuisines where people don't have bread, flour, etc. All indicators indicate uncontrollable tobacco consumption in our country. Patients experience drugs in the advanced phase of the disease, when treatment is incomparably difficult and the consequences of greater, malignancies, obstructive lung disease, TBC and others. At times, working organizations used medical work to send their employees to healthcare organizations to prevent them. Today there are problems and prevention costs, and it may cost the most, but it is the most fertile. The situation is dramatic. Smoking affects not only health, but also family, work organisation, economic opportunities, and major economic damages. Promoting a healthy lifestyle, adopting a smoking ban policy in schools, and at work, I think it's a priority now. Every person and family of addicts suffer from illnesses as a result of undetectable smoking. They require longer and more thorough work. We need radical changes in the behavior of our youth. Abstinence in itself means nothing if it is not working to change personality and accept new healthy lifestyles and lives. The specificities of our country related to the use and use of tobacco show alarming tendencies, especially when it comes to young people. There is little talk about the harmfulness of smoking among women, among pregnant women, and in the adolescent period tobacco is unfortunately an entry drug, and continues with other psychoactive substances, leading to risky behaviour, school leaving and other numerous problems. It is alarming that the burden of costing the treatment of diseases and the mortality of Serbian citizens initiates as an incentivist or initial chapel use and abuse of tobacco, which grows if we add to this lost working time and their unhappiness while the cigarette is in their hand, means reluctant at the time, then costs for the purchase of drugs and unconditional treatment caused by tobacco and tobacco smoke. To mention that this monster is causing a large number of medical consequences, harmful to health and smokers and non-smokers. Long-term and expensive treatments, with a large number of sick days, and by taking hospital facilities, reduce productivity, lead to a collapse of the health system and represents a social burden and cost. In Serbia, they say there are 8.8% of young people and about 8% of girls who have tried to consume tobacco by 16 years and that many have continued to smoke. This widespread use of tobacco is a major social and medical problem. According to WHO, smoking is the largest individual preventative factor of premature death, disease and incompetence. This massive phenomenon, justifiably called pandemic, shows a dramatic increase in developing countries, including Serbia, which stagnates or declines in some of the most developed countries in the world. WHO has created and is constantly promoting the health strategy for all citizens of planets. It gives full attention to the activities to be carried out by the Member State, the health service, the company, the collective, the community and each person by accepting healthy life and reasonable habits. WHO estimated that every year three million people die from smoking diseases in the world and that by 2020 about 10 million people will die. Between 2020 and 2030, more than 100 million will die as a result of smoking. As early as 1970, WHO banned smoking at assembly meetings and committee sessions and all its rooms. At the same time, she vigorously asked the UN to support her. This proposal was supported by all international organisations in the UN system, as well as our country. In 75, WHO educated the Committee of Experts on Smoking Control and World Health Day was yesterday. It was supposed to be marked by a message against smoking or a victim in favor of health, but May 31st comes to meet us. Since 1989, he has been declared a world-wide cigarette-free day, i.e. a world-wide non-smoking day. Because of this, MPs of the PUPS parliamentary group in the voting day will vote for this law because we think that Serbia, as part of the UN and the world, has a moral obligation, and the Ethics Committee of the WHO has made a commitment to each doctor to fight for these principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38476	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38477	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've done a lot of things in this assembly, so it won't be a problem for me to talk to myself, but I think it's a pointless debate that starts with the minister talking to us in a five-minute discussion and then leaving the session. We can continue our work, we have something to say about these laws, but this is also sufficient confirmation and indemnity and irresponsibility which, unfortunately, there must be no place in such an important ministry as the Ministry of Health. As for the smoking ban law, I think there is one honest analysis of the state's effects in the fight against smoking so far, and that's our common problem, because we can't live beyond the world. Most of us were able to, without too much trouble, travel the world, see a life where the rules and obligations of smokers and rules and obligations of people who don't smoke are very clearly defined. It is clear that non-smoking rights and obligations are in front of the rights and obligations of smokers at all times because smokers are not only endangering their health but also the health of those who are their victims primarily because of the fact that they are condemned to be in their presence. So far, we have been very irresponsible in applying the smoking ban law. I am glad that in Parliament, on our initiative, a order like this has been established and that parliament has stopped acting as unfortunately continued to behave many other institutions in the country, but without a clear awareness of the harmfulness of smoking, every law will be ineffective. I would not like us to pass laws that will formally cultivate this trend of establishing a system of values characteristic of space, let's say, the EU whose member we want to be, without being respected and not applying in these laws. How much is the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Fund to finance, say, the treatment of people who are suffering from the diseases that are caused by smoking? What are the costs of our companies because people take sick leave due to the treatment caused by smoking? What was the cost of the state in the fight against smoking so far and how great they will be in the time ahead if we want to be effective in the application of this law. A year ago, smoking was completely banned in Turkey, in Greece as well. In Italy, the country of espresso and cigarettes, it is also very clear that the law is respected, not only because the punishment in Italy is 500 euros for those who light a cigarette in a cafe or a restaurant after lunch, but also because there is a public awareness of the importance of respect for such a law. For the formation of this public awareness are responsible institutions, and we are not today able to discuss the effects of their work so far, not with the ambition to criticize someone, to teach them lessons, but with ideas to improve this work – so that the results will be the way we want them to be. Unfortunately, we are blacklist leaders – from the percentage of women with different forms of malignancies, to the percentage of young people who smoke or the percentage of people who smoke, the percentage of money that is spent per capita for tobacco and tobacco products. The state can't be without the fact that we're a society that only destroys itself. It's not enough to appeal to citizens, suggesting they'd better live healthy. Once again it is necessary, of course next to these standards, to influence social awareness, so that, before it gets late, people understand why this law is extremely important and why this deserves much more attention than we give it ourselves. What would someone pay attention to this law when the legislator of this law today does not do such a thing? If the Minister doesn't care to speak to us for more than five minutes, in a united debate on the Law on the Prohibition of Smoking and the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices – how do we expect society, which is otherwise the hostage of every kind of irresponsibility of our system, to change itself? I believe there must be no compromise in the fight against smoking, nor in the fight against alcoholism or drug abuse. The first, second and third problems are the consequences of the situation in which our society is located. If we do not face the causes, we will be inefficient in removing the damage that follows, say, uncontrollable smoking in Serbia, uncontrolled advertising of tobacco products, trends that have been established and that are nurtured from generation to generation. How do you control the sale of tobacco products? Are we effective in respecting that ban that says - that a person under 18 can't buy a tobacco product in a store? Do we sanction those who run campaigns in which they affirm smoking – of course not? Therefore, this law is a good idea and a good intention, unfortunately, condemned to move in a plane where the previous law has moved – I think it is bad. The laws cannot be seen as the expression of one of our whims or the whims of Minister Tomica Milosavljevic. If one minister should explain to Serbia why smoking is harmful, then, as agile as it is, it will fail. It is not enough to hang a billboard on that unfinished building of the Clinical Centre, 30 years unfinished, with the message "Serbian country in which smoking is prohibited". It is necessary to explain to people that there is a different way of life and that there is one way to give them such a life. The only country in the EU where smoking is possible in this way as provided for by this law is Austria. You can sit there in a restaurant, in the part where smoking is intended and which is as comfortable as the part where non-smokers move. What will it look like in Serbia? What's it gonna look like on the Kalemegdan terrace, in Madera, in some pizza place, in an area larger than 80 square meters? We can't pass laws that are inadmissible, so the responsible person will be the owner of that space, which needs to find a way to solve this indecisive dilemma. All together then we face the need to play the law, not to apply it. What will it look like here in our congregation? Is the congregation restaurant allowed to smoke or not? Is it possible to enter that part of the congregation restaurant where no smoking is allowed, but to bypass the part where smoking is allowed? Who will punish the People's Messenger? Who is the responsible person in the Assembly – the President of the Assembly? Before the law, you need a clear awareness of the price the state pays, the price paid by companies and the high price paid by each of us. Much bigger victims are non-smoking than smokers. This is why smokers, or more smokers from the LDP, are around me than non-smokers and smokers have to be on the other side. If they decide to destroy their lives, they need to understand that, by destroying their lives, to a much greater extent, they are destroying the lives of non-smokers and should therefore be rigorously sanctioned. If I have to express myself, they'd want to jump out of the window, but they'd have to pull two or three more with them. That should be made clear to the people of this country. We are not fighting smokers, we are fighting for the lives of those who do not smoke, who are threatened by the pleasure of people who enjoy cigarettes. It's much more a question of culture than rigorous sanctions. That's why Greece could do it, which is why it did it a year ago and Turkey, because they realized what the connection between ambition is to be the most prestigious tourist destination and the wishes of people who come to that destination to be in a healthy space. I don't think there can be any consciousness in the law itself. The idea of the law cannot impose such awareness. It has to be our common definition. As we've bananad the flu case, so from the phase in which we were prepared to trample corpses to get a vaccine and a complete campaign that was absolutely inappropriate, pushing fear into society, we came to a phase of banalizing and devising the health care of the population. It wouldn't be good if the fight against smoking came down to one law. As for the bill of medicine and medicine, there is much we would like to say to Minister Tomica Milosavljevic. He offered the same argument six years ago. He's in another kind of trouble. Usually our ministers have a short term of office, and then they can't make it to what they want within their ministry. You talk to Minister Dinkic today, he's the minister of the economy, not the finance minister. When you speak to Minister Milosavljevic, he is today a minister of trade, not a minister of agriculture. Agriculture Minister Dragin was the environmental minister, and today's environment minister is yesterday's Parliament president. Now, this burden is not carried by Mr Milosavljevic – he has been Minister of Health for six years. We also discussed these laws six years ago. At that time, the adoption and adoption of the law is justly justified by the need to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation. It was not done as it was done in the EU. That is why we are interested, firstly, in how it is possible to bring this area into line with EU legislation, while ignoring this simple fact and the truth, which is obvious, notorious – that in the EU one law does not regulate the field of human medicines, veterinary medicines and medical means, because we have included three absolutely authentic areas in one law. We are now adopting a new law on medicines and medical means, which by 70 members is larger than the law we adopted in 2002. There are 232 members in this law. What Article 1, which is the essence of the law itself, says, is the law of the Medicines Agency. What is the status of the Medicines Agency – in very strange? We have some other agencies in our country's system. There's no agency that's as dependent on the ministry as it is on drugs. The Agency for Medicinal Products gives consent to the placing of the medicine on the market – and all other consents are given by the Ministry of Health. Is that how it is in Europe? Did Vizartis first take his vaccines to the Ministry of Health or the Agency for Medicinal Products fully autonomously conducted procedures to be conducted – non-clinical testing, clinical testing, production. All of this was kept in his jurisdiction by Mr Milosavljevic, and he only made a check of the app of his system, or another place where some agreement is needed. He explained this - with respect and compliance with EU standards. That's a serious problem. If we're talking about the area of regulation of our health care system, we have no right to act as a government and as an opposition. That's not the phrase we've always said. There are sectors where it is impossible to cultivate one such approach. At the level of the city of Belgrade, where we took responsibility for the Belgrade-based health care system, we respect it. The only thing we asked the people who took over jobs is to be professionals, because it doesn't mean anything to us that some LDP doctor is treating us badly if he's not treating us well, or that he's a forwarder or a socialist, if he's at the raffle of us. We didn't allow people to change in 2000 on a party basis where we could control it. For example, Professor Bumbasirević remained director of the Ortoped Clinic of the Clinical Center, although many tried to explain how he was a member of the SPS Board. Today, this man is one of the most prestigious surgeons in the area of medicine in the world. That's the facts. So if we're talking about this law, don't think of us as representatives of the opposition. We're all interested in the health care system working. Is he working today? Not the way we want it to be. What are the problems? Material, of course, and they're hard to solve and they're a burden to every government. But there are some systemic illogicalities we need to talk about. We don't only cultivate these illogicalities, we make them more. The public health law, which we adopted two or three years ago, has he solved such a thing? It's not. We face these problems every day. This law that we are now adopting will it make what needs to be more effective? This is the process of producing drugs, clinical and non-clinical testing, and not just the process of placing the drug on the market and issuing some authorisation. Why does it matter? If society doesn't trust us to define a system that is efficient, which is credible, one front page in the paper that will prove to us that the vaccine is actually poisoning the population, it will destroy all the efforts of the country to, say, improve the health awareness of its citizens. We can't ignore that. How can this anomaly we're talking about be solved? She can't be solved by writing amendments. It is impossible to write an amendment that will separate, for example, the relationship in the health care system towards medicinal products for human use towards those used in the veterinary and medical devices. There are no amendments. We need to talk to the Minister why all of this is in one law and where there's still such an example. Maybe the minister has some explanation, and if it makes sense, I think we should accept it, but we haven't heard that argument. We are now getting a law that moves in the same format after six years, which by 70 members is bigger, and these members are actually sublegal acts that the minister was bringing in the meantime. It's too many misunderstandings within one system to have the right to remain silent and to bypass such facts. Our health care system is confused today, and that's not the way it's supposed to be. Many more orderly societies have a problem financing the health care of their population, much more orderly. Not to take the example of America, but this Bismark model that we're talking about and that comes out of respect for the principle of solidarity, which today describes us as young people without some great need in front of a health care system, but tomorrow as those who will demand more than what they have the right to look at the degree of their participation in that system. That's why a model is being built by which we all invest in a health care system today so that tomorrow we can exercise some of our rights. What does that look like in realisation? People are offered surgery in Turkey. How many of them accepted something like that? Very little, people don't want that. Why don't we have an O.R.? We need to get an answer to that question. If there's not enough money, let's see where it's at, how we're gonna make it. If the only way to save a human life is to perform a special operation in Turkey, let's make a system that will make one such project convincing, not turn everything into a rumor and plot, and now go to Turkey because someone made a special deal with the Turks, so they'll get what percentage of the patients they send there. It's all very irresponsible to have the right to remain silent or to deal with it. Our biggest problem is when we talk about the Ministry of Health that absence of willingness to talk and agree. They are all under pressure from private pharmacists, who do not understand the state's position to respect the monopoly of state pharmacies compared to private ones. We are all witnessing the failure of the system for which the Republic Health Services is responsible. The head of the office today speaks of major financial problems he has with branches in Vojvodina. So the director, within his jurisdiction, cannot ensure the functionality of that system. Whether that's true or not, that's another question, but that's what she's talking about. We need to talk about this, it's a topic for Žarko Korać and the members of our Health Committee. We have no right to increase the confusion that exists in society anyway. These rivals that have been established can be both positive and harmful. They're positive rivals when they make people compete to be better, and it used to be that way: where the first heart will be transplanted, who will transplant the lungs, where some surgery has been performed, where a better visiting professor appears. Now that rivalry has gone to a counterphase and its own negativity, so doctors no longer speak of their successes but of the failures of someone else and thus prove their value. This is due to the politicisation of the health care system. If we're talking about this law, the biggest problem is the fact that the law is actually passed with a sign of great mistrust that the health minister has in his own system. First, the minister does not want clear laws to define areas of human medicines, veterinary medicines and medical means, and then he does not even want to transfer the powers to the Agency for Medicinal Products, but retains them as one accompanying service of his ministry dealing with non-agency tasks. The agency must have a lot more space to operate than it has in this law. With the minister gone, it's very difficult to conduct this debate. We will not vote in favour of the law, not because we oppose legislation reform, but because we believe that this law should respect certain rules and practices that have resulted in positive effects in the countries around us and that Europe that we are seeking. So, three laws, a serious conversation with the Ministry, a clear strategy to address the problem of health protection of our population and a deal that will bind any government to a longer term.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38478	Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38479	I ask of you as chairman, of course, you are not responsible, but as chairman, as speaker of the assembly, you should have given an explanation where the minister in charge is located. The debate is really going in the right direction and I see that all parliamentary groups have taken this law seriously and this is a really serious issue and it is seriously debated, but it is not the right to seriously discuss a serious issue without the minister's presence. So, I suggest you either take a break now until the minister arrives, or we resolve that dilemma where he is and we somehow force him or force him to come and listen to this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38480	There is no reason to interrupt the work, Mrs. Pavlovic is here, will convey everything we say. I agree that it is desirable and necessary for the minister to be here, but I have information that he will be back in the O.R. in a few minutes. Mr. Bortich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38481	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, esteemed fellow MPs, the degree of development and arrangement of one society is measured, among other things, by the fact that the living conditions for the normal development of each member of the community are regulated in this society. There is, unfortunately, bitter truth that the weaker society is economically developed and the more social differences between its members are expressed, almost as a rule the members of that society are more exposed to the various forms of endangering their working and living space. An eclectic and almost school example that confirms this previous thesis is an example of the spread of smoking and the abuse of tobacco smoke. All statistical indicators unequivocally confirm that the number of smokers of all ages and both of them is far more pronounced in developing countries and developing countries than in highly developed countries. These indicators confirm another drastic fact that the country's active policy to reduce and limit smoking in a closed and public space is far easier and more efficient in developed than in developing countries. In this respect, the best example is that of EU and US countries, whose governments have managed largely to reduce the number of smokers in countries under their sovereignty by active policy and by applying drastic legislation, and almost completely eliminate smoking in a closed and public space, restricting smokers from the right to smoke in pre-legal positions. The benefits of such policy and such measures have been multiple in these countries, but it is certainly the most important that full awareness has been changed and that citizens have accepted the fact that their free choice to be smokers should not endanger the living conditions of those who are not. The formation of such a consciousness has generated multiple benefits in these countries. First, there is a significant reduction in the number of smokers, both among rich and poor populations; second, the number of smokers among children of school age; third, there is a significant decrease in the number of smokers among pregnant women, raising the quality of foetus development and reducing the number of stillborn children, as well as the number of children born with different forms of smoking-induced diseases; fourth, the ban on smoking in public places and in a closed space has formed a cultural pattern that has brought abuse and bans to a level of lagging and primitiveism. It goes all the way to Hollywood movies from the '40s, '50s and '60s last century scenes and characters in which the main heroes smoke, throw out, or retouch. All these measures have created a completely different cultural and valuable social environment in which the right to smoke is a drastically limited right of smokers, which means the rights of those born and unborn to be born and to live in healthy natural conditions. Unfortunately, Serbia is still much behind in this area, as in many other areas, despite the legal and other measures it is taking, compared with developed countries. Despite the fact that our country ratified the World Health Organisation tobacco control Framework Convention on 9 May of the same year on 9 February 2006, which entered into force on 9 May of the same year, there was no significant change in the general picture of smoking consciousness, nor was there a significantly reduced number of smokers, as well as smoking in indoors and public places almost daily. It is easy to say that more rules than exceptions, it is best to confirm that in Serbia in 2008, 8.8% of boys and 8.3% of girls aged 13-15 led to smoking cigarettes, and that 77% of children living with someone who smokes in their presence at this age. Although the percentage of smokers in Serbia has dropped since 2000, the trend has lagged dramatically behind developed countries. As a result, it is necessary to regulate this area by legal means, and to influence the change in the awareness of smoking by accompanying acts, educational and criminal policies, as a general national evil. In this regard, the proposed law on protection of the population from exposure to tobacco smoke is a good basis for Serbia to become an orderly society in this area and to build standards that have become a daily practice and pattern of behaviour in developed countries. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices regulates the conditions and procedures for the granting of conditions for the placing of medicinal products on the market, the registration of medical resources in the register, as well as for the production of medicines and medical means and for the supervision of these areas. The law also regulates the work of Serbia's Medicines and Medical Resources Agency. In addition to the fact that we are bound by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the system of health, the reasons for the adoption of this law are multiple. Not getting closer to the elaborate of these reasons, because they are decidently mentioned in the reasoning of the proposal for this law, I just want to point out that by adopting this law and this act, Serbia will create normative assumptions for regulating this important area according to the highest standards of the European Union, the World Health Organisation and the World Trade Organisation. This will create conditions for domestic equipment, medicines and medical resources producers to meet the standards to place their products in the countries of the European Union and in other countries of the world that are being brought together by the World Health and World Trade Organisation. The provisions of the proposed text of the law define the types of medicines that are in line with international directives and regulations of the European Union, which regulate this area. It is particularly important that the law regulates medicines for genetic therapy, somatic cell therapy, as well as medicines obtained by the bioengineering process. The law also regulates the authorisation procedure for medicinal products, as well as the procedure for obtaining supplementary data on medicinal products, in accordance with the standards of Good Manufacturing Practices, Good Laboratory Practices and Good Clinical Practices, which are standardised in the international community. In this way, normative assumptions are created that the authorisation for the production and transport of medicinal products can only be performed by producers that meet the highly standardised criteria. This will eliminate every form of abuse, riding and drug abuse in Serbia, which will greatly contribute to better treatment of our citizens and bring our society closer to European conditions of treatment in the area of health. The provisions of the proposed law relating to the clinical trial of medicinal products for human use and veterinary use are in line with the requirements of the Directive on human medicinal products, and for veterinary medicinal products and with the provisions of the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines. The proposed law also regulates the area of medical resources, as general medical means in vitro, diagnostic medical means and active implantable medical means. And this area is in line with EU directives, which will contribute greatly to equating standards in this area with EU standards. In particular, it should be pointed out that the proposed law of the norm and the tasks of the Agency for Medical Devices, the rules applicable to the Agency's work, the position and the bodies of the Agency and the general act of the Agency. It is of particular importance that the Agency’s work is also subject to the provision of a law governing public agencies, except where the proposed law on medicines and medical remedies is not otherwise laid down. I am deeply convinced that the proposed law on the protection of the population from tobacco smoke and drug law and medical means well creates a normative environment in which human health will be better, faster and more effective and in which our citizens will be treated with medicines produced according to the highest standards of modern medicine. By adopting these laws and other regulations, many forms of abuse will be eliminated, which, unfortunately, contribute to endangering the health of our citizens. For all this, I would like to say that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38482	An authorised representative of the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia, Mr Mileta Poscurica, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38483	If we don't have a minister, it's already a well-known finding, but it's likely to respond to what we make as observations, from the notes that his colleagues will prepare for him. First, I'm going to talk about the drug law and medical means, one more voluntous law, and more content, and not with less uncertainty than those that change entirely, so, accordingly, it could be the law on amending the law, but it doesn't matter. The formulation is what it is. Our objections are already about Articles 2 and 3, so the first members to define the concepts that are in routine application in the law. We think that there was a place to mention and describe the term of a clinical trial and a very important participant, a participient, and we'll see later ambiguities in the members, which is why I point out, the monitors of the clinical trial, sometimes I'll say clinical studies, I mean, even though it's not exactly the same. Why do I think it matters? Because later, what is passed as a sublegal act, the agency itself, which actually gets new powers here, and is directly controlled by the Ministry, or the Minister, and its accounts about its work, I don't know who probably the Director is, because it's kind of decimated. So what the agency will later do on the basis of the acts it brings, like the regulation on the conduct of a clinical trial, will have to define exactly who can handle clinical monitoring, and in order to know that we need to know what it is and what the phases are. If we fly over the fact that there are four phases of clinical trials for a moment, we will see that they are really like the first phase, and also part of the second phase of clinical trials, we need people who are able to recognize very well, in a certain way to control and monitor the work of the lead investigator, participants in a clinical trial, a doctor who works on it or a veterinarian. In order not to miss or hide something, or in the possibility of side effects, in the study of some laboratory abnormalities, some clinical events, reasons for prolonged hospitalisation, which I'm not sure is someone who is a monitor, an observer of a clinical study, the first official bond between the sponsors, the one who orders and the doctor who conducts it, on patients who agree to it. So, that monitor should be someone who is closely related to the medical profession, to avoid the current situation, in which it is sometimes economists, I know and very qualified biologists who do it well, but people who, by their training, have become further educated, and therefore should find themselves in that list, a defined notion of who can be a monitor, how to call it, and finally, in the jurisdiction of the agency, to place someone such a right on a license to do such things. It should be avoided to be a foreign citizen, we also have opportunities to be a Serbian citizen when he is in such serious business. So, our objections are moving also with regard to the agency itself, its role and importance are potent, there is no dilemma, but now in the bodies of the agency there is one very important missing, such as the indetermination of the authority of the board of directors and the absence of the board of directors, so the question is, how in law, the bill of law stands, what will the Management Board do, except propose a statute to be certified by the Government? Earlier, according to the old bill, when read like this, it seems as if both laws were in force at the same time, the Governing Board had an obligation to adopt statutes, annual work programme, financial plan, adoption of annual labour reports, follow-up of spent funds, adopt different acts, etc. He had jurisdiction. As a rule, the Supervisory Board controlled the work of the Management Board, received periodic reports for six and 12 months, followed the financial effects of operations, as the agency established a tariff system. It is certain that the Agency will make different decisions, establish tariffs under which an authorisation can be granted for medicinal product, authorisation, submission initial, participation for a project currently present in a clinical trial of approximately 114, 115, 120,000 and any amendment to change in a clinical trial is paid by half of it. There will be significant funds, but as it is constructed in this law, there will be a new number of people working at the Agency, for which we now do not know who were doing these jobs at the agency. That's what they're called. The agency's bodies, which are called commissions and by analogy, according to the law, follows that it will be a list of experts proposed by the agencies, but will be profiled by the minister. Why, if the agency knows, in proportion to the size of its work, has a dozen points of jurisdiction, which of which expert profiles for temporary or permanent commissions needs, why must the minister further filter? We cannot take the impression that by vertical and horizontally the entire health system is under the control of one political party and that there, apart from perhaps seemingly people who are not party members, but are close to the political opinion, responsible for the concept of health in the last eight years at least, should be profiled experts who will enter the bodies according to the description of very high responsibilities. They will give a final court on a number of issues. These questions will often concern the right of someone to receive a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product, the right to place a medicinal product on the market at one stage or that stage of a clinical trial. That is why we think it is possible for a politicised solution and perhaps unnecessarily for the minister to make a decision on who will finally make the revision of those proposals that will enter the list. No number of commissions, the number of experts on the list of experts, cannot be obtained even an approximate representation of the size, of the bulkiness of the agency that will be in the responsibilities of the indeed, but they are significant under the control of the ministry, so that one auxiliary body, as well as many committees that exist in the health care sector, will be the point of reference, but thus also the final responsibility of the Ministry for their functioning. We don't see who else he's going to charge. I don't know how the Agency, most likely the director, is going to report to the government once a year on his work. Articles 33 to 36 shall regulate the authorisation of a medicinal product. Generally, what we do not think is good, these are too long deadlines that have been given, even for the regular procedure of the drug license, when the material is obtained prepared, a certain commission in the agency is considering it, formally establishing, carrying out a formal assessment, according to the law, content and complete documentation. If the documentation is incomplete, another 30 days is the deadline, the one that has proposed, the promoter, or the drug manufacturer future or importing the medicinal product, however, delivers the documentation and has some rationality there. It is irrational why, once complete documentation has been delivered, it takes another seven months, 210 days to make a final decision on the authorisation of the medicinal product. It's a pretty big time and can be tolerated sometimes, when it comes to a routine need for medicine, which is not unusually urgent, when there's a parallel on the market, maybe that comfort could be tolerated. However, if it is an accelerated procedure or a conditional authorisation for a drug, not so large, but still large time schedules, we put it under review. That's what we suggested by the amendment to change. This initial procedure of consideration is most often the most basic. It only registers subtle deficiencies in the documentation. Why is it that if something goes according to the accelerated procedure, assessed as a state emergency, health care system, a large number of citizens, such as fast procurement of tamiflu, for example, should it be a paradigm for many stories, then why does it take 150 days, and what element of urgency is involved if 30 plus 30 plus 150 days it's two, three, five months? It's a big time period. If there's a parole for the cure, it's supposed to be the most cautious. The bill states that it can be extended conditionally for 12 months, and then the drug license when it is issued for five years, when conditions are finally obtained, by continuous extension, we believe that it may have been possible to limit the time for which the applicant, the licensee, would have to provide the necessary documentation to get the medicine into as regular and faster procedure as possible. Once upon a time, these two proposals had to be a centralized document, a centralised procedure. If none of this is possible, then at least the information is whether the cure is on the list or approved by the FDA or EM is something that will guarantee the safety of the medicinal product that is released into circulation, because the infinite extension to the creation of the conditions to be, seems illogical, especially in paragraph 5, is said of particularly urgent situations when a medicinal product without many of the 29 conditions can be placed on the market and given its authorisation applicable, conditional. Now, or it's an emergency, so it has to be. If it's urgent, it can't be repeated indefinitely, or the variant of giving 12 plus six months of a break, so that it succumbs to re-registration, to pay the tax and fine again to be registered, to oblige whoever wants to compete with that drug to provide documentation more seriously and faster. As we have at the stage of four clinical trials, the right to detect the bad effects of the drug when the medicine is in routine use, how much of the population will be at risk greater than the rooms in which the smell of smoke is felt will do them any harm. Let me look back on this other law, because it's about the smell of smoke, but not the breath of smoke. Some things were brought there to unnecessary details. We suggest that these members of 35th and 36th get a little stronger. We've tried to change that for the amendments. Theoretically, it is allowed to open up a corrupt situation, a corrupt circumstance in the agency or ministry when giving permits to something that is extremely urgent and that you are constantly extending the right to use the medicine without having centralised documentation that was brought from there. In Section 5, I don't think that's very clear. But maybe I didn't understand it until the end. That's why it was an opportunity to work on the Committee, but the Committee didn't even have time to discuss it. Code. In the 51st to 54th of the drug issue, there is again something that is now the concept of the health system as it is. There is now a policy that implements health policy that has so directed a way of rationalising consumption, a way of privileged drug manufacturers, who would rather be on a positive list free of payments, while others will go into participation, we don't know why drugs of the same generic, the same properties, one is on the list, the other is not, they have to pay, and then doctors have often problems with patients, that already learned medicine must change for another, almost identical, but that may be if the drug is more expensive for so many reasons, the other is a producer or something else, so that at least they pay that difference, so that someone doesn't have to go from one drug to another, but that's one of the details. There are specific problems with the behavior of the rules of writing medicines and distribution, and let's say in gynaecological practice, the code of the drug does not often match the code of the disease that a gynecologist is able to prescribe. Therefore, the most common cephalosporin cannot be given to any gynaecological disease other than cystitis, which is totally unacceptable that the code code of this medicine should be attached to the code. Although drug encryption is indeed European practice and in spirit it can be quite usable, but why is that impossible? Why some medicines in the maintenance of pregnancy, such as gynipral that can be prescribed after 20 weeks of pregnancy, must be written that a patient, a pregnant woman, is not a patient, is given a prescription, must be written on O 20, and, of course, is given a trident, a drug from imports that did not pass the registration here, etc. from Greece. So there are some misunderstandings that often cause problems for doctors in the field. If the doctor in the field, again around the division, is full of therapy, gets in general practice, so the primary protection doctor selected the order, the specialist prescribes human insulin, some funds deduct the value of the prescribed insulin from the doctor's salary, even though the specialist doctor has ordered it. It may not be a general phenomenon in Serbia, but I am talking about knowing the name and name of a doctor who is obliged to pay the 40,000 Fund back. The same fund, where 20,000-euro equipment will be provided in a year, receives a pension of 1,000 euros and a nice salary before that of 130,000 dinars. We have created a parasystem in the organization, where the salaries of these shouting MPs are far greater, where the abundance of sublegal acts will be governed by a health system, where doctors themselves who are allowed to say this are not overly satisfied, nor the concept of health care of the chosen physician has revived, nor the normatives that have been given fully appropriate, nor can doctors implement them on the ground, if I have already touched it, because it is simply impossible to implement them in the manner of rigid acts. I think it's in Article 61. And in the 75th like this at first, and even more thorough reading there is collation. In 61, it says that it is prohibited to conduct clinical studies relating to gene therapy, which is a change in genotic cells, etc. Member 75, where deadlines are mentioned, says the decision of the Ethics Committee of the local ethics committee can be taken from 30 to 90 days until opinion is made, precisely for the treatment of the group. I don't know how it is, if I didn't get it right, it's probably going to be clear in the discussion, but of course it doesn't matter how we explain it, it's important how the sponsor shows up with this drug, whether or not he can participate, whether he's going to pay and move or initiates a clinical trial procedure in Serbia for these medicines. In Article 73 — financial resources for a clinical trial. You see, as a rule, you know what's defined and what's supposed to be paid for. I'm sure you don't get paid for the patients involved. Research teams are paid and given the right to those patients who are not in the car of that clinical study under hospital treatment conditions, to compensate for costs. This should be clearly presented – travel expenses, nothing more than that can be financially motivated, so this should be more clearly highlighted. There are, we'll see later, some information about that, that it's not the best thing for some members to define. I would also like to point out the fact, I don't know how rational it is now, that the amount of income, the fees received by the main researchers and the participants in the project, goes to the local ethics board. They go to the director of the facility, they go to the agency, they go everywhere. Our agency has raised that question, agency inspectors, to really separate the financial incomes of every participant in the project, not that the lead investigator takes the money and to share that money in his opinion as he thinks he should. Clinical research has been paid. It is a great responsibility and 10 years or more and you don't know what someone can call you, to answer for what you have signed, believing all the papers that the matter is correct, but for that there is a fourth stage, where such abnormalities are registered. This work must indeed be documented, and there we must have a lot of understanding for the role and importance of those who lead it. It's not a profit-oriented job, but whoever does it responsibly is responsible and responsible. This should also be seen, how much it is to carry on an ethical committee, how many people who are members of the Ethics Committee can be otherwise motivated to make a decision or not. We don't have any field experience. This has never been done before. The deadlines within which the Ethics Committee should present its opinion on the similarity of the project could be shorter. As well as you should know, the Agency's reporting is not time-defined. The Ethics Committee could, for example, take 15 days to inform the Agency that it has given consent to a clinical trial and to speed up this part of the story, the ban or the suspension of a clinical trial. Of course, the suspension should be temporary, always before the ban. That we might define jurisdiction here more precisely. However, turn-turn, it comes down to the inspector, without, at least as it stands, including the lead investigator, the research team, and the modulator, the monitor, someone who, after all, needs to sponsor a clinical study himself, to give an opinion. I'm afraid that if an unwanted event or some serious unwanted event were to occur, and the law is not numbered which, however, could be unsolicited hospitalisation, which is not the same as the fatal outcome, could lead to the fear of the inspector's opinion being abolished or suggested by the Ministry, or by the agency of the minister, to interrupt the clinical study, until later, in susar, it's not finished when it will be, or finally know why the death event happened, whether or not the same severe adverse event, so the clinical study may be somewhere, because of that, and perhaps justifiable, but imagine somewhere not recorded, anywhere, an estimate of injury procedure. The lead investigator breaks procedure, then there's no dilemma. There really should be a good consideration of how he was elected, whether he could ever be the one to carry the research project again. It should indeed be more careful to see how much responsibility can be given to the inspector in that jurisdiction. Around the tobacco smoke, time is short. I think that one rather rigorous law towards those who are an integral part of the population is certainly over 30% and it is not so much necessary for people who are in everything equal to other people to discriminate. Enough, I end up, and according to this existing law, the fact is that they were isolated in special rooms, with good application, it was punishment enough and sufficient stigmatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38484	MP Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38485	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, first of all, to say that I am protesting again. I think this is about two very important laws, and no matter what their authors come from the same ministry, I think we should have discussed these laws individually. This way we have no choice. I'll only talk about tobacco smoke. My colleagues, Mr Dimitrijevic and Mr Lazic, will talk about the Drug Act. Right now, let me say that there is really no need here in Parliament, either by the Minister, or by the MPs, to discuss the harmfulness of tobacco smoke. The fact that tobacco is harmful is a fact, it is not essentially a political debate. I know best how bad tobacco smoke is because I've been smoking for 47 years. So smoking is a vice, though, my humble opinion is that people who don't have any vice are a little boring, but let's cut to the chase. First, I have an irresistible need to deal with a question about why a serious anti-smoking campaign has been under way in the world for ten years. You'll say the explanation is simple, it's a concern for human health, but I'm not sure that's the basic motive and this motive has already been seen. It is irrefutable that since the time of the anti-smoking campaign, the revenue of the tobacco industry, and thus the states that take part of that income through understandable taxes and taxes have increased five times. I'm speaking information for the world. So five times the income of the tobacco industry has increased since this story was told. Of course excessive alcohol consumption is also harmful, it was seen at one point in the Americas in the 30s and seduced the prohibition of alcohol. What were the effects of that? The effects were that first, of course, they were enormously enriched by mobsters, then the state recited these mobsters, some paid for the big racket and washed the money, some like Al Capone didn't, so they ended up how they ended up. I think the smoking campaign's gonna end up like that one day. In fact, right away, I think I need to pass the smoking law, call it that much shorter, but it's a law that's very sensitive because it actually has to take serious care of human rights and not unilaterally, but tripartitely. First, there are undoubtedly human rights of non-smokings to ensure that they do not breathe against their will tobacco smoke, which is harmful. Secondly, there are real smokers who have the right to smoke and to provide their rights in an adequate way. Thirdly, there are rights of interested persons, and these are not only hosts, but organizers of various other manifestations, cultural, sports and whatever you want, who also have the human right to do their jobs without suffering damage from such a law. So what this law must undoubtedly have, it is one very touching balance in the protection of all human rights. But what do we have on paper, as a suggestion? First of all, if it is a principled relationship, or principled things in this law, it is my unquestionable impression that the law unnecessarily dissipates smokers and that, what I do not like, is doing terrible. So here's the thing, let's put it this way, about the terrible gibberish of smokers. All that's scary is, you know, except for some things, a little suspicious. If it's about individual objections, that's where it gets worse. Of course, I'm not going to talk about individual remarks right now, because I could talk about it for a very long time, the number of amendments the DSS has submitted is, given the extent of the law, pretty big because, excuse me for saying, there are a lot of nonsense in the law. I'll only give you an example of one. As a measure for the concentration of tobacco smoke, you take the area of the room where one is located, however, it is clear that the concentration depends not on the surface but on the volume of the room. I'll give you an example, if you have a room of 20 square meters high, that's 200 cc's of air, and if you have a room of 80 square meters high, it's 160 cc's. In this room of 80 squares, by the logic of things, there are four times more people, and since the distribution is even, there are four times more smokers. So when you add everything up and subtract in this case, a room of 20 square meters tall has five times the concentration of tobacco smoke from here, another room of 80 square feet high. In that sense, we have made an amendment that the corresponding parameters do not bind to the surface but to the volume. There are other examples like this in criminal politics and other things. There is, say, one sentence that starts like this – if the room has a ceiling. I don't happen to know any room that doesn't have a ceiling. But that, I say, is much more precise and more detailed we will talk about when the amendment is debated, and I hope that you will adopt many very well-intentioned DSS amendments. So, what's the end? It is doubtless necessary to pass a law on tobacco smoke, namely protecting citizens from tobacco smoke, but this is not such a law, I'm sorry. I repeat, this must be a balanced and applicable law. We won't have any of that if we pass a law that no one can apply or that we all knowingly violate. I've been told by some of my colleagues here in parliament from the ruling majority. I asked them where they'd smoke, they said, "We'll smoke, it doesn't matter." I'm saying this in order not to repeat the situation that happened in Croatia. They passed one of these laws about a year ago. The law was valid during the summer, when he didn't hit anyone much, because everyone was sitting in the gardens. When the fall came, then the rebellion rose and then the law was withdrawn. We'd better pass one law which, of course, we'll all adhere to and, I repeat, respect for non-smoking rights, on the other hand, smokers' rights and third parties' rights, given the work they do and who have interest, of course, in having as many clients as possible, so whether they're smokers or non-smokers. Finally, to say that, speaking again to my fellow MPs, smokers, of course, I have concluded that they have not read the law, so I strongly recommend to them, there is still time, to read the law well and not to start thinking – we will pass the law, and then we will violate it because, my God, we are MPs. The law applies to all, therefore, both the messengers and everyone. He has to answer for his purpose, and I'm afraid this is not how the proposed law does it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38486	Does Mr. Momchilov want a word? I'm sorry, Mr. Vukovic didn't speak. Simo Vukovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38487	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first refer to the law relating to the protection of the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. Although in previous discussions we are trying to relativise the situation of tobacco smoke in terms of public health harm, we think that during this debate, at least as far as the G17 Group is concerned, we will insist on it, because the effects on both the country itself and the financial system in the country are very profound. As for the problem of exposure to tobacco smoke, I think this is about one of the most serious public health problems the RS has today. I will remind the MPs that in late August, in early September, we discussed the Law on Public Health and defined ourselves as a concept that has virtually no alternative in all developed modern health systems. The concept of public health primarily implies not only the responsibility of the competent ministry, but almost all the institutions in the country, both this parliament and local self-government, religious communities and other institutions. The harmful effects caused by smoking in Serbia are practically alarming. I have to remind myself, and I believe that fellow doctors sitting in parliament are some of these data known that in the mortality structure the leading place takes up non-infectious diseases, including cardiovascular and cancer, which are practically predicate, and the main factor and one of the main risk factors is smoking. Despite the efforts made by the state and the ministry to reduce mortality from acute heart disease, on the other hand, the frequency of cardiovascular diseases cannot be prevented without one broad social action, and I think it would be irresponsible to just talk about the responsibility of one ministry. Allow me to present just a few more data, based on an analytical study done by the Institute of Public Health "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut", which covered practically a decade from 1997 to 2007. This is also in the very reason of the law, that in Serbia, it smokes more than a third of the adult population. But I'm going to supplement that with some more alarming data. More than half the school children in Serbia aged 13 to 15, so 54.7% already smoked cigarettes, and each sixth currently smokes. Another information, which certainly requires every well-intentioned and responsible man to worry, is that 97% of young people in the population are exposed to tobacco smoke, both in their home and at school. On the other hand, we have objective problems concerning the enlightenment and information of the population, and according to this same study, it has been stated that everything over half of the adult population has been informed about the harmful effects that tobacco causes, and in 2000 this percentage was much smaller, however, thanks to many promotional actions, something has raised the level of information of the population on harmful effects. I think the thesis is completely missed if we're talking about the purpose of passing this law in terms of reducing the number of smokers. It is simply that we are being denied the practice that has been implemented primarily in EU and US countries. I have to mention that Finland had a problem for almost a few decades that over 70% of the population were smokers. After implementing restrictive laws and almost the world's best prevention programmes, the number of smokers is reduced to about 20%. What I must also point out, and here, one of the previous debaters pointed out and mentioned the current problem concerning the waiting list for cardiovascular surgery and interventions, which is completely simplified and viewed exclusively through one dimension, which is a lack of personnel and technical capacity. I can view it either as indiscriminate, uninformed or indifference to show it exclusively through that dimension. We have an explosion of cardiovascular diseases that are caused by multiple factors, but you have to be sure that tobacco smoke takes its toll most of the time. It is likely that there is no substance, or substance that has more adverse effects in the history of medical sciences, studied and proved precisely as tobacco smoke. In the last half century, and this is highlighted in the explanation, data has been brought that practically directs us to the conclusion that tobacco smoke has harmful effects on all organic systems and tissues. But on the other hand, what is objective, which is actually the reality that there is one very tough resistance and an open question – why is there still so many smokers in the world, including in Serbia? We can look for reasons on different sides. If we are talking about Serbia, I think we should focus on this, there is a traditional acceptability and tolerance for smokers. On the other hand, we have an uncritical presence, latent and unconscious advertising of tobacco in mass media. There's a non-cultural pattern if you want, either through movies or literature, where cigarettes are inevitable decor. We have, in addition, a serious problem concerning the very wide availability of tobacco products and their low prices. We have the resistances that exist and that we have heard today and that are moving from rational to irrational, and that's a very broad leprosy. No one argues that there are great pressures from the powerful and over-rich tobacco industry, including the interest groups that go along with it, whether it's distributors or those who are also involved in that chain, to those irrational attitudes, to which I was encouraged by professor. Shami, which is one romantic way of talking about cigarettes, smoking, and actually it seems to me that only when it's in order to treat harmful effects and diseases resulting from that, then we have a more critical attitude and viewing that has a completely different picture of tobacco. The state that is faced with this whole picture that I purposely presented, when I say the state is not only meant by the Ministry, but also by all levels of government and institutions that exist must join in this comprehensive action. In order not to be an abstract plan to fight tobacco smoke, I will return you to the fact that this is our legal obligation that comes first from the Public Health Act. Unless everyone accepts and realizes these consequences that are very long-term for the entire population of Serbia, surely this law will not have the results we can expect today. I already see that a large number of people, especially in this room, with skepticism await whether this law will be applied in practice. If this is how we approach the law and it is passed on to all those who need to implement it, it is very difficult to expect that it will depend on the minister or any person or body who should carry it out on their own. I'm going to give you an example concerning the supervision of the implementation of this law. Therefore, they are not in the control of the facilities, which need to be controlled by law enforcement, including sanitary and health inspections belonging to the ministry, and educational inspection and municipal police of cities and the city of Belgrade is included. So everyone takes responsibility for implementing this law. Unless there's a synchronised action, of course we won't have any effect. That's why I'm talking, and that's why I agree with some of the previous debaters who said we don't have the right to share here. What is least, I think, important here is that we have an obligation arising from the World Health Organisation's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which has been practically ratified and implemented by us. If we view it exclusively as a commitment, then we are in serious trouble precisely because of those reasons that I have previously stated. What I especially want to apostrophe and what will certainly be the subject of further discussion is the very nature of the law. I will take the liberty of saying, knowing Minister Milosavljevic, I believe that if he could absolutely decide the nature of the law, then he would surely be more restrictive than the case here. So, I wouldn't call, as some predecessors, this law by compromise, but it seems to me that here it was necessary to respect reality and the only exception in the law that was made regarding catering facilities. In fact, the experience of introducing very restrictive laws, which indeed has several countries in the EU, can be cited as an example that was in Belgium, so, after the introduction of a restrictive law, there is indeed a 50% decline in the catering facilities. Of course our neighbours in the Republic of Croatia also had a similar problem by passing laws. I believe that by considering these facts, in fact, that reality had to be respected, especially because we live in the economic crisis environment and one impact on the caterers might not be good at this moment. What I also want to say is that I believe that both the proposings and the ruling majority, the opinion will prevail that there is also a transitional solution here and that we will be forced in two to three years to introduce a more restrictive law and to virtually abolish these exceptions that exist in the law itself. As far as the drug law is concerned, the minister said in the opening statement that it was actually about the need for legislation because the previous 2004 law was complemented by sublaws because of the very dynamics of the pharmaceutical industry, the pharmaceutical market, its practical everyday development, and that we came to a point where we practically had to pass a new law. The drug law and the medical means that were passed in 2004 were one of the first laws that we entered into the process of legal harmonisation with EU legislation. On the other hand, today this law has absolutely respected the most European and world standards in terms of respect for the directive, and above all the Good Laboratory Producers Guidelines. It does indeed form part of the regulatory framework that regulates this pharmaceutical market, i.e. relations in a chain that actually starts with the manufacturer, go through wholesalers, health institutions. This specifically refers to pharmacies. Those who are last, which are most important in the chain, are patients, because ultimate commitment and our health policies of the health care system are the safety and health of patients. I think it's the highest quality of this law because many of the shortcomings that the previous law had in terms of the safety of patients who receive medications or medical medications on prescriptions, without prescriptions, are much more protected here. What I would also like to point out is that the basis of this law rests on compliance with the applicable EU directives on human and veterinary medicines and guidelines, as I pointed out, good manufacturers and laboratory practices. Here it is mentioned, I hope we get an answer from the minister, but there are laws in the environment that process in general both veterinary and human medicines. This law and very precise separation, although it is a unique legal matter. It regulates the area and traffic and obtaining permits, both medicines and medical resources, and clinical trials to monitor unwanted effects, it's a very important part, then markings, what was often observed by different associations and pharmacists and patients, quality control inspections and others. It is mentioned that there are definitions for some new types of medicines that have occurred in the meantime. What's very important is the fully defined MAH and who might actually be. It is certain that the greatest attention is to determine the process of issuing different medical permits. This is what we had during the search at the Health Committee itself, and that is understandable, given the potential large financial interests that exist in this area. However, in the bill of law, it seems to me that these procedures are fully defined. I also draw attention to the conflict of interest that may arise among members of committees dealing with the assessment or decision to place the drug on the market. Also, this bill regulates the regime for the issue of medicines, which is often the subject of a dispute in both the professional and the general public. What is also important is to define the quality control of the medicine by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices at all levels and within precisely defined deadlines. In accordance with this, the monitoring of the conformity of drug production with good manufacturing and medical practices, as well as this compliance in the distribution and transport of medicinal products themselves, will be carried out. It is a very important and prescribed obligation to inform the competent ministry of any change, error, accident or discontinuation of the production of the drug. It took care of imposing obligations on market suppliers for the continuous supply of drugs, which also protects us from artificial shortages that sometimes make suppliers and wholesalers prone. The price of medicines, it is very important for citizens to point out, as well as criteria for their determination, continues to determine the government, except for those issued without a prescription, which retains the policy of protection of standards and indirect rights to access to health care. The establishment of regional centres for monitoring unwanted effects is also foreseen. What will certainly be a problem on the ground is the personnel capacity to carry out pharmacovigilance, but I believe that during a certain period and the procedure will be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38488	The People's MP, Pai Mamchilov, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, at the beginning of my presentation, I would be free to refer to a few findings here on the Health Committee. I should be allowed to say that I believe that the Health Committee has worked well, that members of the Committee cannot be qualified as unemployed and as people who do their job badly. In fact, I think it's one of the boards that might even be ahead of work. I do not say this as a personal court and assessment, but we are thus assessed by certain NGOs at meetings held in Serbia. We've been discussing many important problems from the health system and we've been working hard, and I think we've done a lot of good work, and we've managed to promote that supervisory role, see, maybe in a modest way, but we couldn't do better. I'll talk about the tobacco law first. I said he was unnecessarily delivered. I said it was a law that once again is the law of compromise and that it goes to meet the profitable sector of tobacco and tobacco products and some other institutions in this system, such as casinos, casinos, etc., and that it is certainly not something that is quite good again. I said that some solutions are unrealistic and difficult to achieve, and I also said that we have ridiculous provisions. You already have the definition – smoking is the possession or handling of a lit tobacco product, whether smoke is actively inhaled or exhaled. How can you breathe it without breathing, I don't get it. First of all, possession, excludes you from using it, so if you keep it in your pocket, it's the same possession, according to me. You have some definitions – the smoking room must be a closed room in general, with a sliding door that must be closed on its own, with closed windows and doors being considered part of the wall of that room. How can a window be considered part of a wall? It can't be by the laws of logic, it doesn't have to be written here. This is what a teacher would do to children, if they wrote something like that in the first grade, to fix it. It is further said – if the room has a ceiling. Well, which room doesn't have a ceiling? You say – if the room has a ceiling, and if it has doors and windows, it is completely closed from all sides with a hard wall from floor to ceiling – so it cannot be completely closed if it has a window and a door. What are you writing here? I don't understand this. Next nonsense – if the door to the room in which the smoking is allowed opens in a room in which smoking is not allowed, unless that room has doors that are mechanically closed. All doors are mechanically closed except for those who have electronic photocells. What are you writing this for? Why did I say it was an unnecessary law? I said because that law is not progress compared to the last one. When I look at the past law, I don't like legal regulations, and they're kind of dry, and the language your laws are written in the past, but this one's been past the flowers compared to what you just wrote here. I will be free to read for the citizens of Serbia the first member of the previous law, which is very short, which does not have many members, only ten, and which is practically what you have widely explained here. He says, "Smoking is prohibited in closed rooms where educational and educational activities are carried out, including chambers, and provides accommodation, stay and nutrition for children, students and students; it provides reception, accommodation, care and treatment of healthcare users and persons in a state of social need; it performs production, control and transport of medicines." I won't go any further. A very clear speech. No extra words. Everyone understands what they say. There are elevators, and you didn't see them coming, and you could be under one of your definitions. But let's just leave it alone. You state that the reason for this law is concern about the health of Serbian citizens. A man could say you're partly right, but if we think a little bit deeper, we'll see that you're not. You say you rely on the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which we ratified on 9 February 2006 and which is binding on us to apply from 9 May. I'm interested, Mr. Minister, you're also a World Health Organization official, a European branch, you'll probably agree with me, the most important document is "21st Goal for the 21st Century". Target 12 reads as follows: "Adjudication of alcohol, drugs and smoking. By 2015, health effects due to the use of psychoactive substances, such as tobacco, alcohol and drugs, should be significantly reduced in all countries of the region. In all countries, the non-smoking share should be at least 80% among the older than 15 years, and close to 100% in people under the age of 15". Why didn't you start with that? It's a binding document for us. We are a member of the European branch of the World Health Organization. There's no such thing for you. You are referring to the Framework Convention, because of this Framework Convention, one of the former presidents of Norway had to go and retire to a villa in France, due to conflicts with the tobacco industry. It's a well-known thing. So if you're referring to it, get baptized, this isn't a church, Mr. Minister, and your intruders are rude and rude. I'm not trying to stop you from acting like this. I really don't mind. You have the right to do that. What you're getting baptized for, so I've read you one of the goals you haven't called for and to which you owe. However, when you delivered the health care plan to our committee and when we discussed it, we said that the health care plan for Serbia, five-year-old, since it does not rely on documents, which I have now quoted, we have been given an explanation that we are not obliged to do so. Of course, there's something wrong with your interpretations and your associates. I mean, let's go back to this law. Since the law so far is better, absolutely clearer, shorter and more precise, what is the problem? Perhaps the problem is that education and enlightenment have not produced good results. It's not the health ministry's fault, it's the whole community, headed by executive authority. On the other hand, surveillance and inspection have also fallen and have not done their job. It is not a fact that two inspections, which under this law were responsible for caring for its implementation, failed to respond to their task and did not sanction what they owed. What's the problem with the Ministry? Come on, now we're getting into trouble. You cannot hypocritically pass a compromise law in this way, while at the same time protecting the lobby of manufacturers and tobacco industries, headed by foreign companies, and you know well what companies are – Filip Morris, British American Tobacco and Japan Tobacco, with one of our factories that also exists and that has been licensed. What was America doing? America, the ministry of the health ministry, sued factories and large chains of tobacco producers and demanded millions of dollars in damages to the health of American citizens. They won a grand-million-dollar reparations court. If you are fighting for Serbia's citizens' health, why don't you, why don't you, why don't the fund start the same thing that started in America, and not just in America, but in other developed countries of Europe? No, I don't. You have here sold to factories that have to find a new market, after being expelled from America, and when an American factory is expelled, when one smoker loses in their country, they have to find two to three in another poorer, so they can still have their profits. You're embedded in that profit sector and you're defending them as a health minister. You have a dinar health care, it's a little, it's nothing. Do what developed countries of the world and Europe do, and what they have done, in the true fight of persecution and eradication of smoking and tobacco. What did you do with tobacco producers? He lured them with premiums and predominance. Now that you want to cut them off, they're threatening strikes. Why didn't you direct them to other cultures and other good ones to produce, then by stimulating, of course, reducing that tobacco production. After all, what does the production and consumption balance of tobacco in our country look like? If it is to trust the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the latest data, it is said -- in 2008 in Serbia, it is $138.8m foreign trade in tobacco and tobacco products. 45 million dollars' worth of exports, and 88.7 million dollars' worth of imports, which means $43.5 million is a deficit. Here is what the protection of the profit sector brings to Serbia – it brings a deficit and brings such unnecessary imports, and you will surely agree that tobacco is absolutely harmful. You don't do it, it's what you should do, not compromise laws like this. If you'd done that, you'd have our support. Serbian radicals would say -- you really care about the health of Serbian citizens. What I'm still trying to say is, how do you think you're introducing this new control of these controllers? That's unreal. You do not now exercise control from persons authorized, whose professional duty it is, and you expect some volunteers to be sanctioned. It won't work. After all, if we're talking tobacco, as a doctor, I don't have a dilemma that he's harmful. As a non-smoking smoker who has a problem with tobacco, I would absolutely be in favor of a comprehensive application of the smoking ban. If you're talking about Europe, then say 11 countries in Europe have comprehensive smoking ban laws. If you've got the strength to get there, it's not just Europe, it's America and other countries, then it makes sense to change this better law than yours. Then it makes sense. But if you haven't come this far and you don't have the strength to take that more important step, that you're reducing production and distribution in our country to the harm of our citizens, don't even play with these papers. You've played a lot, and the health of Serbian citizens is not good. I'll show you the same in the later presentation. What I said, that as a doctor, it would seem justified to me and to apply comprehensive measures, which you did not apply by this law. On the other hand, if I know and respect the principles of medical ethics, is it really okay to restrict human rights to smokers and prohibit them from using tobacco in separate rooms specifically? Hypocrates' ethics no longer apply. You can cross yourself again, Minister, now is the moment perhaps. The new principle of medical ethics includes informed consensus and consent. As a doctor, if one of Jehovah’s Witnesses comes to me, bleeds and signs that he does not want to receive a transfusion, I must accept that. If this is the principle of medical ethics and every method of treatment and diagnostic must be accompanied today by an informed consent, then we are now really coming into one absurdity. How can we even deal with these people in some way with euthanasia, Mr. Minister, then how can we defend people in some restricted space with one real control to discharge something like this? That's what I had to say about this law and I think that's enough. I'd like your answers, except for the baptism. You've made a mistake in the institution. Looks like you've made holidays and dates a mess. It's been a Easter. If I'd known, I'd have taken the eggs and maybe had sex, who knows, but I didn't know you were religious and that you were baptized in parliament. Now something to do with the drug law. I'd just like to say something why we're not up for this law. If you read, say, the daily press, a man is interested in what the daily press says, what the new drug law has given us. I read – February 20th, the "Blic" list – "Possible drug collection", which is the title. Then, summarised on the basis of an interview with the person sitting next to you, Mrs Pavlovic, what provides for a new law – compliance with EU directives, compliance with the tasks of the World Trade Organisation, creating conditions for domestic drug export producers, manufacturers form free prices of medicines that are not issued on a prescription, simpler authorisation, respect for foreign certificates, shortens time, simpler import and export of medicines. If we read what you wrote in your explanation for the reasons, you as Minister of Health, and you wrote three things. You have stated these reasons: number one - compliance with directives and other EU regulations in the field of medicines and medical means; number two - compliance with the requirements of the World Trade Organisation; and three - creating conditions for domestic drug manufacturers and medical means for the placement of their products in EU countries and other countries of the world. Mr. Minister, the basic reason why you should have changed and passed this law is to provide Serbian citizens with quality, safe, cheap and available medicines. You didn't write that anywhere. You've put yourself in the car of a profitable pharmaceutical industry, and you're not interested in Serbian citizens at all. I'll prove it to you later. Where are your principles? You didn't lead them anywhere. These are the reasons why you brought this. When representatives of the pharmaceutical sector, NGOs send letters to us as committee and to all members that I will read to you, please give answers, defend yourself, not by baptism, in words, are you not someone in the chain of profit pharmaceutical companies?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38490	It's really not right, you can't talk to the minister like that, asking him, first of all, questions that degrade the person of the minister, the government and this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38491	If you're letting him get baptized here, crying, I don't mind, and that's okay, and I didn't insult him. I'll read you that letter, I was just quoting the letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38492	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38493	I'm absolutely holding on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38494	Stick to the agenda, the laws are on the agenda, not the letter you get. Please, let us have some dignity, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38495	I will, I'm not against it, I'm just saying that what the pharmaceutical profession wrote, what was passed on to us, and what I'm going to read, is asking for an answer. If I've offended anyone, I'm sorry. Since it's 20 minutes, I'm gonna hang up now, so I'm gonna move on later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38496	National MP, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38497	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the two laws ahead of us, the law on protection against tobacco smoke and drug laws and medical means, I will try to contribute to the context, our or my perception of the context in which the laws are passed, because I consider them important, because I consider them to be a paradigm, both for congregation work and for many future things that we will do, no matter who is in opposition, who is the ruling majority in the National Assembly or Government. What's the context? The context is that, in the case of the first law, therefore, the law on the protection of the population from the harmfulness of tobacco smoke, we have a problem in front of us that we are trying to solve by regulation. The problem is how to defend one's freedom and at the same time ensure the protection of the rights of some others. This is a key problem for many of the laws that we will be making and that we have already passed in this congregation. In this bill of law which is a topic, the freedom of one is those who use tobacco and since using tobacco is not a criminal activity, then we decided to bring regulation to ensure the freedom of those who use tobacco. The right to protection, to healthy air, to clean air, we must provide for those who do not use tobacco and, apparently, the first simple problem ahead of us see that we essentially have one complicated system. Why the complicated system? Because of the inability of people to solve it naturally, so those who have the freedom to use tobacco do not endanger those who seek the right to live in the middle without tobacco smoke, so they do not know how to solve it themselves, and otherwise people do not know how to solve a lot of problems themselves and that is why we need regulation. What's our mission? Let's see if we can get too much regulation into one area concerning the defence of each other's freedom and the protection of each other's rights. In that context, I will see the law before us. Is it a real measure? And in the reactions and colleagues from my parliamentary club from the ruling majority and colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, you will see that the reactions are completely different. Those who are more prone to protecting rights, those who seek air without tobacco smoke, seeking more rigorous measures in the law, those who are more prone to advocate freedom of choice, so freedom to use tobacco, will demand a reduction in the rigidity of the measures. Our task is, and I fully agree with fellow MP Cedomir Jovanovic, that these are not the subjects of the opposition and the ruling majority, on which points could be made or the policy of the opposition and the ruling majority differ, to find out what the right measure is. My contribution may be compromised in a number of ways, but on purpose, because, I repeat, the context of defending the freedom of each other and protecting the rights of others, a context which through many laws we will have the opportunity to meet and perhaps the opportunity of these two laws ahead of us is that we as a Assembly are progressing, as MPs in general, whether we are the ruling majority or opposition. So if we are advocates of freedom of choice, then we will defend ourselves with freedom of choice and ask those of us who want to use tobacco respect for freedom of choice. Two important arguments are with those who advocate freedom of choice. The first is, none of us ask to stop buying cigarettes, we're welcome to buy cigarettes, and where that tobacco and cigarettes will be spent, we're asked not to be seen. There is one note of hypocrisy that repeats itself always in trouble when you have the defense of the freedom of one another and the protection of the rights of another. Why are we asked to buy cigarettes? Because excise duties, so consumption taxes and taxes on cigarettes as excise goods filled with the Republic of Serbia's budget of around 60m euros. So we're not going to ban the sale of cigarettes because we know it's going to produce a black market and the state is going to lose its income, but we don't want to give any instructions to those who buy cigarettes to stop doing it, because it's nice to have income in the budget that comes from excises, or taxes that are tied to tobacco. The other argument that those who defend freedom of choice have is that we are witnesses and participants of campaigns that go towards smoking prevention, to explain that the use of tobacco is harmful, to all medical analyses and studies that speak in favor, and then the argument, agreed with harmfulness, without prejudice to harmfulness, is that we are looking for an end. So, on some Friday, if the National Assembly or all the congregations in the EU or on the planet pass laws that prohibit smoking, and if we all leave tobacco, the ones we use, what happens to tobacco producers, tobacco employees, those who have facilities in the tobacco industry? So no one assumes that this will be the result of a smoking prevention campaign, that it will end up so that indeed those who use their freedom of choice will say – I will not use my freedom of choice, and so more tobacco traffic around the planet will not be and it is human. When we move to this other side, therefore, those who are in order to protect their rights to live in the environment that is free of tobacco smoke, we will have an argument that will be contained in the document of everything that is unquestionably proven, verified, changed, will likely be new evidence of how harmful tobacco is to the health of tobacco users and those in its immediate environment, starting with how it reacts to the organism, to the fertility study, through studies showing how the work effect is reduced, for example, or productivity when you have non-smoking or smokers in the working environment. When they talk about their argument to those who are for the protection of rights, there is an argument that I tend to criticise and expose to criticism, hoping for the support of our MPs, whether we are opposition or not, therefore, in smoking prevention campaigns, there is one tone of intolerance to tobacco users. It's a dangerous field. So, as long as we don't classify the use of tobacco as a criminal activity, then it's also the defence of freedom to make a choice to use tobacco or not to protect the rights of those who want a healthy environment, together we have one least common factor, which is that we can't allow impatience to people who, by respecting the ban on using tobacco, this law, even more rigorous or less rigorous, so the atmosphere of intolerance and disqualification just because someone has decided to use freedom and use tobacco, is the thing that we have to agree to be inadmissible. The moment our Serbia or anyone decides that the consumption of tobacco is a criminal activity, the moment you can have disqualifications on that basis, such as in the area of criminal disease-based addictions of other species, such as drugs or substances being treated criminally, whether you consume them privately or in a legally prescribed place, if you have any legal places for criminal activities and drug consumption. So this context I'm talking about because I think it's important that we remember the context, as I paint it, and in other cases, when there are similar laws, when we have a common problem of regulation how to defend the freedom of one and how to protect the rights of some others. Why do the congregations have to do this again? Because people can't spontaneously regulate their relationships, because they have to have some regulation that, by common agreement between the minority or the majority or only by the decisions of the majority, will prescribe which regulations are such that they produce socially desirable behavior. I would like to see in that part of the law that deals with the smoking prevention office, which deals with co-operation with other ministries, which deals with the idea of working together on health education with children in preschool or even lower age, not only by introducing them to tobacco pests, but by getting to know them and playing with them in agreement on what is what makes us a healthy life, in which way we can use resources around us to live healthy. So if it's an accent of this law, then the law will be good and will be applied. If it's just the idea that sometimes we're reluctant to check how well we apply the law, and sometimes even more unnecessarily our obligation to really talk about what kind of problem we have when we apply the law on the protection of exposure to tobacco smoke, then it won't work. It's another context I want to refer to when it comes to this bill, which is that between all of us here in the hall sense—whatever, never mind, will not be applied anyway. He is a paradigm for countries that build democracy, a paradigm is for institutions that try to win their place in society, a paradigm is for weakness and for the possible advantages of the institution. If we're here to say that we're going to pass a law that probably won't apply, then we need to hear ourselves say what we're saying and figure out how pointless that is. If we don't have the strength to be together as an institution, so I repeat, both the opposition and the ruling majority, we control the executive power whether it applies the law we're making, then we'll rather talk about some kind of will for normative optimism, so not only bring laws, but what we'll have the right to say -- we want to pass a law on the ban on the exposure of the population to tobacco smoke because we have institutions that will monitor and control the application, we have awareness of what good it will bring to all sectors to which the law applies and we have awareness of the context in which the law is passed. Only then will he and every other law have its full meaning. Normative optimism is a characteristic of societies similar to ours, so for countries that have just established their institutions and it is not a sin or an understanding, sin is nothing to do to change it. So it would have been good for me to assess this bill with an analysis of why the previous law had failed. Since it seems to me that it has failed, I may not have the information, I will gladly withdraw the claim, but as far as I know, only two MPs and one National Assembly official have been punished with 5,000 dinars for using tobacco in an area that is not prescribed. Will the Minister's word be enough that this law will be passed until the last? It won't to me, because I think it's the first consequence we have to pull together from the context I'm trying to show. It's not enough just a word, it's necessary evidence that involves the joint work of the people we're trying to do, sometimes we manage to control the executive power, sometimes we don't. Why am I talking about this in favor of, say, a third description of the context of both the laws we're making? Because the policy of its structure is idea and working and by ideas we differ, these parliamentary groups, parliamentary groups and we are excellently different. I've been fighting for 20 years that we have equal chances of competing for our political ideas, and I always find it funny when someone threatens me to lose the election. We fought for it, one to win the election, and the other to win the election. The competition for who's going to be better is the essence of the political competition we're still building. It's an idea. It is working – whether you have instruments, a program to implement these ideas into action, that is what is working and that is the task of this assembly. We have some ideas on what it means to ban the exposure of the population to tobacco smoke. Whether it will be working, it depends on us equally, as depends on the government of the Republic of Serbia, or on the ministries, and the space in which we control each other is always such that one who notices that one passive is taking up that space. The government doesn't like to control itself. Nobody likes to control themselves. Every power is too much of a temptation for someone to willingly agree to put their power in control. This is the National Assembly, all MPs are running a few waters. Why do I mention an idea-and-work policy? Because every policy can, not only can, but it doesn't, only two parts have every policy. One is interventions in space and changes in space, and the other are changes in social ties. There is no third policy: or you are changing space, these are yesterday mentioned also the debated law on equal regional development, the law on planning, whatever you want, the drawability of natural resources, changes, excises, environmental pollution, whatever you want, you bring some laws that you change the space you live in, where someone sent you to manage that space to the good of everyone. The second part of politics is a change of social ties. It's this law. The law sends a clear message that the use of tobacco is undesirable. If the message stays on it, I don't mind. The law regulates that it is undesirable in those and those places. If the law sends a message that people who use tobacco are undesirable, then I'm against it, because these are elements of discrimination that are inadmissible for changes in social ties, because these are changes in social ties up, not for the better, and I'd like to change for the better. For the last five minutes, the drug law and medical supplies. It also essentially falls under the laws that you change social ties. It may not look like it, but it is. Of all the members of the laws that are before us, of all the failures or good points of application of the previous law for the past seven or six years, we know because we have sought these data, whether we are the opposition or the ruling majority. The population doesn't know. It is not only the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry, it is also the responsibility of us sitting in the National Assembly, because social ties between people are changing by sharing information. Serbia has one funny one sometimes, sometimes very likable to me, but very hard to root out, which is that we often don't listen to each other when we talk, we run two monologues, we don't have a rare dialogue, and the good news is that the dialogue started in this assembly, and the other we keep the information, thinking that the information is valuable and that we don't spread that information. Both habits are bad for society. The information is to be forwarded. Two people in the meeting serve to be in dialogue and to listen to each other, not to lead a monologue. Why am I tying this to a bill of medicine and medicine? Because it has already been said here, it is true that the law has been amended in relation to the previous one only by the Agency, by the Agency's competence and by several different members, slightly amended in relation to the previous law. It's a context I want to look back at and paint. I was, and I was, and I'm going to be an advocate of regulatory bodies, thinking it's a bigger space for people to control what some other people do for public budget money doing public work. I'm going to remain an advocate of regulatory bodies, because I think that kind of work is good. Then what's wrong? It's possible it won't work out. It's never about the agency that's being introduced by this law. We know what regulatory bodies do, but unfortunately, the Assembly still doesn't have the mechanisms to control whether they're really doing what they're doing. You have one once-in-a-lifetime funny result that you want as a Assembly to allow transparency, the public, the control of someone who deals with public affairs, but that you don't have the means to control if they don't, it's not them, it's you. I am ready for the National Assembly to be responsible, whether we are the ruling majority or opposition, for everything we are responsible for. For all that we are not responsible for, I think that the Assembly should take the strength and say – these are responsible for it and so on. That's the only reason I'm talking about the agency, not saying in advance it's gonna be a case, but we have experience with independent bodies of that kind. I'm just going to give one last example, that the state auditor, who was legally due to come to the Finance Committee, went to a press conference. I don't mind, but the National Assembly has turned out to be irresponsible, guilty and all, for a procedure that has absolutely nothing to do with the National Assembly. Of course it doesn't apply to the agency. In order for the minister to read this law carefully, in collaboration with the applicants of the amendments and with us, I would like to thank you for your attention and for the support of the MPs who listen with attention to such a long speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38498	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I give my word to the People's Messenger Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38499	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of this debate, which has been held since this morning, it's just not clear what you of "European Serbia" want? Would you like to smoke or smoke? You're not the clearest thing to me. It's true, we can't just cut some things off and pass the law to ban smoking. Of course, until conditions are created that smokers also have their own corner, their place and it is very difficult today, it requires a lot of resources. However, I would like to mention one thing that you are completely forgetting. It is true that a cigarette has a harmful effect on health. I'm a non-smoker, I personally mind cigarette smoke, but gentlemen of the ruling coalition, take, statistics at least say, that one Kolubara more smokes out and poison gases than all the smokers of the city of Belgrade times the table. Not to talk about the street on November 29th, where pollution is enormously large, not to talk about Zagreb Street in Subotica, which is one of the largest pollutants in Serbia, where many citizens suffer from lung cancer, precisely because it has exhaust gases that nobody cares about. Will this mean that tomorrow the ZES coalition will ban us from driving cars or trucks? What was the point, gentlemen, if you want to worry about the health of our citizens? Not just now, as far as cigarettes are concerned, do something, and that's why you've got a lot of resources, and you promised, the minister has promised, why you've interrupted the tour of Belgrade, to throw out heavy traffic and vehicles out of cities. The tour around Užica you stopped, around the New Market you stopped, around many large centers, Kragujevac... Mr. Ilic, if we could just stick to the agenda, please. ) Thus simply, to reduce pollution in certain cities and to improve the quality of life, and thus preventably affecting the diseases that occur from exhausting gases. I don't mind giving credits, creating conditions to simply separate smokers from non-smokers in individual facilities, in certain institutions, etc. However, many ruling coalition people have now tried to come here and new cigarette manufacturers have recently advocated bringing in some new companies, not to list which, in Saint and other cities, because it is a lucrative business. It's just that the laws of a guy like this need to be passed now. You say it's in line with Europe. Is it in line with Europe that one Obrenovac doesn't have filters that produce electricity for Serbia, that Kostolac doesn't have filters, that there's a huge contaminant, that a Lazarec can't breathe in this area of the forest without talking about Panchev? When it comes to Uzic, located in a bay as a city, a decision has long been made to throw freight traffic onto the roadway and to disperse completely, and to throw out intense heats that work on the mule and coal across Serbia. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I participated in a campaign in Koserić, when you fought to have the Germans drive, the ruling coalition, tires and fall. You say it's the most profitable fuel in cement production. And what happened? All citizens began to move out of that area mass. 5,000 people have moved out of Koseric municipality. The ZES coalition is in power. In Popovac, you also convinced people to give us tires. Imagine, they're paying us to start. We all know, Mr. Minister, it's carcinogenic. Who's the one who approved it? Minister Dulic signed it. I personally saw his signature on the solution he gave. Gentlemen, we're playing. In the purest environment, Kosjerić we put in a tire burner and became European waste, poisoning our people and completely destroying the fruits, vegetables, from the whole region. It's all black out there. I'm sorry Mr Batic isn't here. He asked me to have coffee with him once. While we were sitting, we blacked out on the terrace in five minutes, and there was already ash in the coffee. So do something, if we think about health. Do something to prevent and let us not poison our own citizens. Yesterday, I listened to one of the people's MPs who replicated some nonsense to me and forced me to go to the VMA and come to the infirmary to do a blood test and an alcohol test, and to show that the presence of alcohol in the blood was 0.00. That messenger said I don't drink water. There's clean water in Zrenjanin. Ask the Grains what kind of water they drink. Half of Serbia drinks water that is completely polluted, has heavy metals and various substances that are completely carcinogenic and are not for drink. There is the president of this gentleman's municipality who spoke here yesterday and who took millions and did nothing to solve the basic problem, that in the 21st century, a man and our children drank healthy drinking water. How many cities in Serbia drink healthy water? Mr. Minister, 50% of Serbia's country's water pipelines have been tested, has heavy metals in them. More than 50% of rural schools are supplied with water that owns heavy metals. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. No one can talk. Ninety percent of the factory doesn't have a wastewater processing device... (President: Mr. Ilic, you have too broad associations on the subject. I'd really like to ask you to talk about... )......................................................................................................... No, I'm talking about prevention. (President: Reapply. You've been talking for eight minutes, it's not a dispute. You've got 12 minutes left. This is all a prevention, and we're talking about smokers. We're talking cigarette smoke pollution. I'm saying there are a lot bigger contaminants. A hundred times bigger than no one's talking about. Let's start all these topics. The Minister of Health is here. Let's keep it from working. I know that the World Health Organization does not aim to act preventively to have a healthy offspring and to live healthy, but has an interest in having more patients, to produce medicines, to treat the sick. If people are healthy, they have work to do. It's the biggest business in the world today. That's what these epidemics showed. One bird flu, then a swine flu, and everything we didn't have. We've invested millions, right now, in vaccines, and now we're gonna throw it away. We'll give it to someone, we're very rich. Imagine how many rural water lines we could solve this way. Why do people get sick? Weaken their immunity. Why? Bad food. Who allowed chicken to be imported from Brazil? Who allowed the imports of beef from Argentina, the pigmeat of suspicious origin, which has now arrived in Serbia? All kinds of imports. That's why we became the poisoners of our own people to make import lobbys live and work and make billions, and then we give millions and billions to treat the population that we've affected to get sick. The pharmaceutical mafia is the most powerful mob in the world right now, and more than the drug mob. Why? You listened to what was happening. They go, here we go – swine flu, epidemic, in the media every day, die here, there, there, there, take, buy, poor people buy drugs, "tamiflu", what's called that drug, ministers, they're all supplied, 100 euros, 200 euros, nobody asks for the price. And what happened, there's no epidemic. Then we make the kids, give the kids, get in line to vaccinate. No, the kids won't even hear. Then the defence minister says, "The army has to, the police have to, and they say," so neither will we. Not even health care professionals, here at the Clinical Center, no people. I spoke to the union recently when they were here. They say, "We don't come to our senses." You've rolled your sleeve, but we don't know what they injected you with, so maybe you weren't naive enough to inject that vaccine of suspicious origin, I doubt it, you and the president wouldn't be so naive. Therefore, much more needs to be done to prevent. I understand that the ban on smoking in public institutions is one of the preventions, but it's one of the preventions and small ones. But, I repeat, exhaust pollution in Belgrade alone is 100 times larger than any tobacco smoke produced during one day. There's something we need to work on. Let's not talk about the cities that are being punished. You remember when you went through the Password while she was doing the Viskoza, through Mitrovica while she was doing the paper factory. That's a lot of pollution. Let's work on it and not be a sick nation. But, you see, cigarette trade involved the highest state politicians and the highest state institutions, and the largest state tycoons. Why didn't this thing get banned earlier? It wasn't an interest. Now that that team just split up, we're doing nothing. Here, we don't do a lot of addictions. Why? It again mentions the largest state tycoons, the largest state politicians, officials, etc. We can't get to the point where we can see what we're going to do with the disease of addiction. It's a big problem today, Serbia. So is it the state's interest to contain itself? The way we see it, it is. But it seems to me that more of those on the side are chasing it here to kill the competition. As far as we're concerned, they're kind of stopping us, and we ourselves in the actions we've had haven't had any special effects. So, I can't, Mr. Minister, realize that in health care facilities someone there uses one razor for five pregnant women and gets three of them five hepatitis Cs, which happened in a chacha hospital, and no one gets punished for it. How is it possible that an ordinary razor, which costs 20 dinars, would cause three families and three pregnant women to get hepatitis C? Is that possible in the 21st century today? It's not excluded that tomorrow someone with the same needle will stab five people, give them a shot and pass on some very dangerous disease. So I repeat, prevention is extremely important either this WHO, and ours who are involved in this, have an interest in spreading it. Maybe it's a big deal for you when you get hundreds of hepatitis C patients. Do you know how many drugs they spend? Not to talk about AIDS now, other diseases, etc. You may not have an interest in curbing it, because I can't help but realize that there is a healthcare worker who simply ranks the whole line of maternity care and prepares them all for the birth of one razor and, of course, it is realized that some families in black have become ill. So there's a lot of work to be done and there's a lot to be put under the control of the pharmaceutical mafia. I remember in my own time, there was already a certain arrest of some of the leaders of the pharmaceutical mafia. Suddenly someone gave the signal to stop it. I remember the name and very important politicians today, though, you weren't on that first team, and there was a big politician, and I was surprised where he came from in that pharmaceutical mob, very important, but interest is interest. People were involved in the biggest purchases of various equipment, drugs, and not to speak but various equipment used in the pharmaceutical industry, prices and everything else used. Just take it to the station at the train station as much as it cost, I remember when I came to the minister's office the affair was current and suddenly someone hitched off the affair, that twice the pay for the purchase of magnets than it cost. Right? I think you know that, too. I don't want to talk about any other equipment. We were looking here in parliament for reports from the MUP whether that hospital was deliberately burned, because when the World Bank came into control, I remember, I met with these people and we talked here, there was no equipment for which credit lines were raised. How is it possible for a new reconstructed hospital at 11:00 p.m. to be set on fire? Do you believe, Mr. Minister, on that day, one of my friends, a priest from Cuck, I wanted to put on the VMA or the Clinical Center. They told me they'd only have one single bed tomorrow. Suddenly, when the hospital burned down, 300 seats were created. Is it possible that in Belgrade hospitals you suddenly get a capacity of 300 seats? What exactly happened that night? Is it possible that no one from the facility called the fire department or the porters, no one? Was it ordered not to call the firemen? Did the neighborhood call - people, worse hospital? Not to talk about many other things that have happened. Equipment, extremely expensive, no one was in control. Scanners, expensive equipment, techniques, various donations coming in, etc. But I recently took a friend to an emergency room at the eye clinic here at the clinic. You know what, I think his name is Professor Golubovic, he was there as some captain, we waited and asked his sister – what are we waiting for? He says -- you know, we don't have sterile, we only have two sets and they're currently in circulation, they're in surgery, so he's waiting for one to sterilize to show help to a man who's had a severe eye injury. We sat and waited in the hallway until they finished sterilizing. The woman says - I can't use the equipment that was recently used. They don't have the equipment. They can't work. We've been throwing ourselves away for millions. When's this Clinical Center gonna end? Does Belgrade need him at all? Is it exceeded technologically now? There were so many donations, so many funds, and it's not over yet. We're talking about white rooms, sterile equipment, everything we're talking about. People are dying of sepsis. Recently, an unfortunate man named Zoran Rajičić, our famous caratist, died of sepsis in the 21st century at the Clinical Center, not to mention his daughter after the C-section, which was barely drawn. The one from Chajeta's unfortunate man who recently died. His wife is a doctor and she says - my husband got sepsis and no one in the department accepts it, it's not possible. When I'm in the hospital, when I'm in surgery, after a heavy operation, I'm lying down, cockroaches just beat each other, open up the hammock, and they're playing the bike. Imagine how to do brain surgery? Why? They can't do anything, they're old hospitals, it's all gone. It's been a while, and the walls are falling apart. It's all in bad shape. Windows, equipment, wind through the rooms. People bring pillows, blankets from home to protect themselves. (President Gordana Komic: 20 minutes. I don't know if you've been in the clinic. I agree to take you to see that winter can't normally let a man lie there. (President: National MP, the time available to you as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group has been used. Do something, not just on stories and law-making. Practice, apply this in practice. I've listed a few things.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38500	The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38501	I am glad that I have had the opportunity to hear different comments about very complex areas, such as the area of medicines and the protection of the population from the harmful effects of tobacco smoke. It's not easy to answer all of a sudden or to talk about each discussion individually, because there were completely different courts here about the same thing that came from a group that said it had a clear view. I could hear that this regulation is very rigorous, and then after that it's very mild, and then after that it's not even interesting to consider when it comes to tobacco control. We at the Ministry of Health are neither qualified nor we know that we are doing it, nor were we going to propose a law on tobacco, nor on production, nor on transport, nor on trade, but a law on the protection of the population from the harmful effects of tobacco smoke. Smoking tobacco is not just a bad habit, it is only a disease of addiction in the first place. Drug abuse, alcoholism, and smoking are three addiction diseases. Personally, I have nothing against smokers, nor can anyone normal have anything against people who have a problem that was experienced and culturally acceptable in their early childhood and maturity, and that was considered, above all, a habit that is individual's freedom of decision, which made it quite clear that a serious disease is an addiction and that it is the most significant individual risk factor for diseases that could be completely prevented if we changed our behavior. Change of behaviour in public health is the most difficult challenge for anyone who is at all concerned with health and prevention, and treatment, and basic research, and clinic and concept of public health. It is not easy to understand even when you are a representative of the People's Will, which means by definition a serious person who has received the trust of his country's citizens in the elections, to represent the same citizens in the Assembly, who only adopt laws, no one else has the right to pass the law in this country other than the MPs, and of course it is not easy to explain to the arguments of anything that is felt as natural for 50 years and goes one way. However, if for the past few years we manage to reduce by one percent the number of active smokers each year and do so and when it seems impossible in the country, which unfortunately cultivates the impression that smoking is a habit or even that human rights, as in other countries that have been through, the scenario is completely clear. The resistance is huge. I have experience with the Serbian Parliament in the second session, which is a proposal for rules to write on a pack – smoking kills, delayed by 12 months by its decision. It began to apply on 1 January 2006, but on 1 January 2007. You can make a decision that smoking is welcome, that is fantastic, but you will bear a great burden of responsibility to speak beyond common sense. So, of course the smoker has the right to choose whether to smoke cigarettes. Of course smoking cigarettes is not a crime, but it is clear that smoking is the most important independent individual factor that causes heart and blood vessels diseases, malignancies, and that it is unusually important to prevent them from acting. Certainly on each of these factors where it is possible, and not just on tobacco, but when we talk about smoking tobacco, then it is a regulation that says – to protect the people with a series of measures that are within the law. As for the conservation of the environment, I fully agree that at this point the conservation of the environment is one of the biggest priorities and if you ask me, since the central institution of the Clinical Centre of Serbia has been mentioned several times, there are mentions of maternity sites, people, there are more than 100,000 who work in these health institutions and in such institutions, sometimes much harder, today a little better, sometimes without anything, today with which to provide and how decent service, if you ask me – what we have done about this pollution, then this same Clinical Centre, for your information, has not broadcast a single gram of sulfur dioxide into the air of Belgrade this first heating season, and it emits half the less carbon dioxide. Why? Because 17 heats were closed on coal and on a mule that represented the most serious polluters of the Serbian capital. The project was assessed by the World Bank two years ago as the most green project on the planet and the most useful project that changes the lives of citizens, because it brought gas to 60,000 people around the Clinical Center and, if you remember, it brought gas to the Clinical Center. The health ministry did not do a project of energy efficiency only there, but in 16 other places in Serbia, showing by example that it is best when you talk about something to clean your yard first. I can't talk about the construction of roads, highways, railways, infrastructure, but I can say that in the analysis of the World Bank of 133 countries, the health system of Serbia, as much as some of you today are railing with less or more rights, I think with very few serious arguments, that this health system of 133 countries is 46th per World Bank ranking for 2009. It is credit, among other things, for you, because despite the fact that we fought over the rules of course with arguments, sometimes with more bile, sometimes with less, yet Serbia has a parliamentary democracy that was able to pass the regulations that made the improvement for its citizens. Today, a heart attack and acute coronary disease die 13.6% less than ten years ago. Today, death in the coronary units has been halved. Today, he is less sick than tuberculosis, and Serbia has the least money on the map of Europe from the Atlantic to the Caucasus, except Albania. It's a fact due to the army of nurses, doctors and employees of the health system. I invite you to a little more respect for those people who do their job. They probably listened to us very carefully. They're gonna watch shows today and see what anybody said. I'm sure your voters think differently than the bile in your discussions and know very well that after this legislative smoke in this building of the National Assembly will not be. Because it must not be in the government building, nor in the building of any state institution, and I will tell you, when I first had the honour of entering the government, at the invitation of Mr. Zoran Djindjic, the murdered prime minister of this country, in the Ministry of Health, there was an ashtray in the health cabinet and cigarettes were actively smoked. Then we cleaned up our yard, so it stopped at the Ministry first, then in health care facilities, etc. It's our turn to make a big step. Be aware that the citizens of this country smoke cigarettes in a year's worth of the entire health fund a year. A billion and a half euros to smoke cigarettes in a year. It's money that goes into the air. I respect the decision of someone to smoke, but in the congregation, they won't be able to do it anymore. After this law is passed, it'll be nice to go outside, not hurt anyone inside, and also in every other place. Is this a donkyot fight that has passion? I can't agree with that because I think this is about a rational business that's filled with arguments, which he says - a smart man learns from someone else's experience. The other guy wants to try everything, make a mistake, then learn a lesson. Tobacco control is already an experience seen. Here is the mention of Mrs. Groh Arlen Brutland, not by name, but by function, very wrong, ugly, and that's the only time I could cross myself, indeed. It's a deep lie. The World Health Organization has adopted the first international public health document called the Framework Convention for Tobacco Control, which also serves Serbia, because one of the countries that ratified it in parliament has adopted a strategic plan in 2007 and is working to achieve it and achieve it. This job that we are doing these days is one of the efforts in achieving this joint plan, which the Government has brought because it has received trust in this assembly when it is elected, in the Assembly which is also built because citizens have said – we give you confidence for four years, you do our job, and we will watch and monitor you, and we will see how we will measure what you say from what you do and what your results are. So we'll see what kind of roads we're driving, whether we're late trains, whether the highway is better for us or for Croatian, Slovenian or European, what kind of hospital is Serbia's health system on its knees today or 15 years ago, is today the one that goes to the hospital buying everything he needs so he's wearing in a ceger, can today just dream of modern therapy? I would mention the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices only because I think there is an incomprehension, because it is a law that is systematic and which, when it was brought in 2004, was practically the basis for the establishment of the Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, which has been an independent professional institution and since then, what, unfortunately, could not have happened in the registration of medicines, that by some seal, some discretionary decision had made a decision, but the profession had been given a trusted job to do all the things that the profession had done. We intended to supplement this law, not bring new legislation, but when it came to changes and additions in accordance with modern experience, because this is an area that is very fast and dynamically developing, we realized that we have to propose a whole new law to you because it is too much of a changing matter. For two years, we had a French drug agency as a main partner, and this comprehensive law is practically modelled by French and Belgians, which in this way regulate drugs both human and veterinary in one package. Has there been any use of law for Serbian citizens over the past few years, and for professionals? I'm sure citizens remember a time in which some medicines could only dream or think it comes to them in ways that aren't regular and normal, and it's certain that in a market that has grown six times in the meantime, with the consumption of medicines that are at a rate of spending of the total amount of money in health insurance with countries that are ten times richer than us, we're trying to respond to challenges that are very complicated, which require understanding. If we are already talking about prevention, you should know that it is an honor to have the vaccine against hepatitis B introduced in 2004 for newborn children and for 12 years of age and that in 2016 we will have all generations that are no longer at risk of this hepatitis. We all need to know together that prevention of primary behavioural change, physical activity, tobacco avoidance, alcohol avoidance, healthy nutrition, and that in 2006, compared to 2000, by researching Serbia's citizens' health, which is a document, is no one's interpretation, there is evidence that we are not in a stalemate that is muddy but on one normal road, it is modest, its goal is seen. The goal is called better health for Serbian citizens. It is being reached, among other things, by an important drug law and medical means, an important law on the protection of the population against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke. In the reality that it says, the economy is in the image of the village host association and said – you will destroy us. In real circumstances where it is clear that in the global economic crisis you can have a projection of the best rules that will not be implemented, we have observed in the preparation of the law that we have a transitional measure. To be honest, it should be said that at this point there is a general ban on smoking in every closed and public work space throughout the EU, in the UK and Ireland. A number of countries have a partial ban, with individual solutions for special rooms, and these are: Italy, Malta, Sweden, Finland, Slovenia, Croatia, France, the Netherlands, Greece, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany, Denmark, Estonia, Luxembourg, Romania, Portugal, Slovakia. A number of countries share smoking and non-smoking areas, such as Austria, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Spain, Hungary, Lithuania and Poland. The EU's recommendation is to go into even more active legislation in 2012. I want the best of you citizens to re-election you in 2012 and you to pass a better law again, and then I will welcome you as a clinical gastroenterologist and professor of the university.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38502	I'm setting a break for an hour. We continue our work this afternoon, and before I determine when, on the basis of Article 85 paragraph 5, I am informing the National Assembly that we will work today after 18 hours of debate on the laws that at that time are subject to our work until the end and continue at 15.25 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15.30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. In the morning part of the session, it was used as the right of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups to use their 10 or 20 minutes, respectively. Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used their rights want a word? MP Zoran Shami has been reported in the system. Do you want to use the time of an authorised representative or the right to replication? Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38504	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I listened very carefully to the debate this morning about the laws on the agenda. I don't know what the other MPs think. I personally think the debate was very correct and well-intentioned. By contrast, Mr. Minister, in his statement, showed that unfortunately, I was right when I realized that this is a law that deals in a certain way with smoking and that unfortunately it is done extremely passionately. The minister has once again shown an unusual passion for the subject. The minister, among other things, said that smoking is a disease of addiction and compared it to drug use, which is also a disease of addiction. All he missed was saying that smoking, first of all, is psychological addiction, and that taking drugs is a serious physical addiction. That's why drugs are banned, and smoking isn't. I would be, and I believe other fellow MPs, much happier to find the law here in the procedure -- what the Ministry of Health intends to do about the great use of drugs, unfortunately, already in primary school. So, not just in minors, but in those under 15. We've learned that 8% of them smoke, I'm afraid the percentage of those who take drugs is very similar. The fight against drugs should not be about just, of course, the police and the judiciary, they do it in their own domain, but obviously when it comes to, if nothing else - that age must be dealt with by the Ministry of Health, as well as the Ministry of Education. I would also be much happier if the health minister showed the same passion, as it shows in the fight against smoking, and in solving the many situations that are happening in our health care. If I'm not mistaken, he said a while ago, over one of the many scandals that occurred, that he couldn't resign, because if he resigned for each of these scandals, he would have to resign about every day - paraphrased himself. There are many things that can also be solved with great passion, Mr. Minister, for example - how to reduce infant mortality in maternity homes, these are not sick people...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38505	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38506	Can I go further in my time, which I have as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38507	You couldn't get a word in business. So, the time that has been given by an authorised representative or president of a parliamentary group is ten minutes now, and ten minutes after the end of the debates according to the application for the word. So it would be our common violation of the Rules of Procedure, that you get the right to use the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38508	Yeah. Can I sign up later – I can't?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38509	No, I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38510	Okay. I'd say one more sentence. I appeal again that we solve this problem together, by passing the law and supplementing the existing law in such a way that it is balanced and applicable, not a law that one can expect to do such things and do something to kill all smokers. (Microphone turned off – recorded stenographer)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38511	Since none of the presidents and authorised representatives are answering for a word, the word is requested by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38512	I agree that this was a useful debate. Of course, there is always a debate in parliament, which is being conducted with the aim of solving a problem and bringing as good as possible regulation, useful and good. The Opiate Precursors Act has just been proposed by the Ministry, which was headed by me and was brought in 2004. For the first time, it was possible for the country's borders to be ranked against what Interpol recommended at the time, some precursors were first defined in the regulation and list. That was the first contribution. Then, after that, very serious research and analyses of our young population are in line with the EGF recommendations, which is an association that is at European level each year carrying out monitoring the dynamics of use – both opiates, alcohol and cigarettes in European countries, and finally a national plan to counter drug abuse. Then we organized a holographic installation across the country, which was observed in many environments, and in school. Finally, the Law on controlled substances is also now in the process. So, I just don't want to get the impression, no matter what everyone has the right to their own impression and to assess whether there's more or less of something called passion, I'd say first of all that there are some obvious facts that a man must defend. But here I am obliged to say that Serbia is a country where infant mortality is constantly reduced thanks to the enormous efforts made by pediatricians and gynecologists, and that is what all MPs need to know. The length of life expected at birth, as the statistical parameter that is the best indicator of the health care situation, increases, and infant mortality decreases. This does not mean that the situation is ideal, especially since today on World Roma Day, we should remind ourselves that social health determiners, which are very important in our environment, are such that infant mortality is higher in Roma unsanitary settlements, for example, and in the Roma population at all. So, there's a lot more to be done here, but I don't want a certain viewer to get the wrong impression that it's something that's bad, and what the health ministry forgets, far from it. The National Programme for the Protection of Women, Children and Youth was adopted after two years of serious, hard work by pediatricians and gynecologists, and then professional methodological instruction and in this job, as far as the results are concerned, believe me – Serbia's health system is valued very high in Europe as a good example in the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38513	Any of the other senior presidents or representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the NS MP group for European Serbia, the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group and the LDP parliamentary group. We move to the course of the session in order of the MPs according to the application for the word. I'm sorry, there's the SRS. I'm sorry. In accordance with the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word, in a joint general search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 6 and 7 of the agenda, the first on the list of speakers is MP Zoran Kasalovic, followed by MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38514	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my commitment above all to talk about the law on protecting the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, because the topic is really inspiring, not political, and I don't think there's room to divide into those who are passionate anti-smoking fighters and the other, but that together we all need to be on the same task. First of all, it's an opportunity for me to talk about this topic today, not so much from a professional angle, like today's numerous discussions, because I'm a graduate economist, but I want to talk as a parent, as a sportsman by definition, as a public figure, as a national MP, as a member of the SPS. I think that from this angle I can be responsible enough, competent enough, and I want first of all to talk about the law, or the purpose of this law, because I think that, while this is already mentioned several times today, I need to mention countless times that tobacco smoke is carcinogenic, there is no safe level of exposure to smoke, that it is significant that in the Republic of Serbia 13 to 15 years of age almost 77% of children are declared to smoke in their presence, that mothers in pregnancy who smoke give birth to children with significantly less weight, especially alarming data on diseases of children exposed to tobacco smoke and significantly more have bronchitis, pneumonia, cough, whistles in the chest, asthma, growth and development of the lungs, inflammation of the middle ear and many other diseases. They're really alarming and warning data. Of course, as a parent, I am a three-year-old son for this law, because I want my sons, the youth of the Republic of Serbia and all other children to be adequately protected from exposure to tobacco smoke, or the risk of these listed diseases. As a sportsman by definition, of course I am in favor of the law because the lifestyle, i.e. sport, significantly improves the psychophysical abilities of a man, young people in their own right represents the negation of vices and does not create potential smokers. In that sense, I am absolutely in favour of promoting a healthy lifestyle and I think it is very important that in our society the continued information and education of young people, the overall population on risks and consequences, is launched in order to completely eliminate these phenomena in our society. It is necessary to do so both in the family and at the level of the municipality and at the level of the state. I want to make an example of the activities very positive and concerns the municipalities from which I come, from Žitište, where the Sports Union of the Municipality of Zitiste has been continuing to carry out more actions called "Strengthen Against Vice", "The Troika Against Drugs", where the action includes and education of young people by school, age of seventh and eighth grade, in collaboration with schools and professional people, where they are explained the risks of alcohol consumption, cigarettes, drugs and other vices. On the other hand, with public figures and athletes aphirmists, live a healthy life and practice sport. There are really several very interesting data that have occurred in these few years. First of all, that children consume more alcohol than cigarettes, that most people recognize, unfortunately, a junkie. What really seems surprising is data when you communicate with children in a free conversation, they say that the first cigarette, that the first alcoholic drink is consumed within the family when some family gatherings, celebrations or something like that. Indeed, this is a very interesting information and says that it is not enough to affect only the awareness of young people and children, but that it is important to work with parents as well. As a MP, a member of the SPS, of course, I am in favour of this law because I believe that MPs should normically contribute to the arrangement of this area, and on the other hand, I think that we should also do our own personal example to make sure that this education of young people to a healthy life and to explain the risks of using vices should be done in all situations. Of course, we ourselves follow what we hope to soon adopt and determine as a rule of conduct by this law. Of course it takes both consciousness and common goodwill for all of us to care for healthy youth growth and to fail in this domain can significantly undo targets and results in all other fields. It seems to me that the legislator has indeed found the right measure and freedom for those whose commitment is to consume cigarettes and that there is really no need to place ourselves in this sense in some camps – yes and against. When it comes to criminal measures, at first glance, it seemed to me that, above all, these fines were high when it comes to legal persons, however, by estimating the purpose and importance of this law, I still think they are justified. Of course, the implementation of this law and the full effect will also require high awareness of the importance of this law, the time, but also the control function that is otherwise provided for by this law, because it not only needs to sanction those who do not comply with this law, but, in my opinion, in the coming period to provide feedback in all domains where this law has given good results and applied, and where it is not. Of course, if in this sense there are certain failures to access both amendments and additions to this law in a future period. With that in mind, respecting the importance of the objective and subject of this law, I would like to invite all MPs to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38515	Seven minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is a folk letter from Zlata Djeric, followed by a folk letter from Jadranka Jovisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I see that you have agreed that there have indeed been many constructive discussions here, and I think that this will greatly help you define yourself for at least one number of very high-quality amendments, which will help to make these laws at least better and certainly better, in favour of the citizens of Serbia. As for the law on the protection of the population from tobacco smoke, I am personally a non-smoker with quite a tolerance for smokers and would not particularly plead to it. A lot's been said. I would support everything that counterpart Zarko Korać said, but I must say that what Mrs Gordana Comić said is absolutely standing. These are two opinions in full opposition, and we can fully accept them as proper. When you have such two opposing opinions in a diametric way that are seriously ready to be accepted, then I'm afraid we won't be able to enforce this law. There's only one thing I could think of today to make the world look different and to make this debate look different today if by any chance it went down on Columbus's ship, and the Titanic didn't. I'm afraid the law on the protection of the population from tobacco smoke does not experience the fate of another American law. You all remember the law of prohibition well. When a law on the ban on drinking alcohol and the production of alcohol was introduced, it was never drank again in America but then, there were never any secret delicacies, etc. You really need to think seriously, at least we who are non-smoking, about that third of smokers who are present in society, how to overcome this problem together, and for the benefit of all of us. As far as the drug law and medical means are concerned, we all know that all honest and professional pharmacists are in fact the most serious fear and the most serious threat is pharmacomaphy, which is one of the most organized mafias in the world. If she were some local guy, a regional guy, we wouldn't have so much headache, but it's one of the most seriously organized and possibly economically powerful mobs in the world. First of all, because it's not like a drug dealer doing business, so to speak, with those of whom it's a choice. This is a mob that operates with those who need it, which is a very serious economic profit. It produces as many of those whose products will be necessary, of course it opens up major paths and great opportunities for abuse and great interest in expanding, organising and implementing abuses as a single market. I have no doubt this law will be corrected through a serious number of amendments. I have no doubt that it will not be perfect and will again experience in some next term, and perhaps before that already some corrections, but, in any case, it is good to have one such law, it is good that it regulates something in health and it is good that at least for something our pharmaceutical industry can be seriously attached or something more serious to protect. But every law is not problematic in its implementation. He's troublesome when he's not being implemented, or when he's being abused. He's troublesome when they find themselves in him or leave holes or leaving trails and deities to which he can be bypassed. I would remind only Mr. Minister of several more serious abuses that we have had for his 10 years, with a brief interruption, mandate and presence right at the place of the same minister. So, first of all, a series of insulins, you remember, extracted from the pig liver, which was very serious and dangerous to patient health, which was found to be seriously shortening life, it happened somewhere in your first term, and then that fake anti-tetanus that, as far as I can remember, no one was more serious, no one was prosecuted, and it happened to be distilled water in doses, and it could have been something else. I don't know what would happen then. Since there was such a possibility, one concern and one mistrust produced from such an excessive nature leaves serious consequences. Such consequences, among other things, occurred this year, last year when so-called. Pork flu. That famous frenetic campaign, which cost us dearly, and the answer was about 2% of the vaccinated population willingly, in part of their own free will, stopped schools where no child was ill, etc., schools suffered serious damage in the implementation of the curriculum, not to mention everything else. Now we're going to give these vaccines, since we haven't found anyone poorer in Europe, I quote Mr. Minister, from us, then we're going to find in Africa, there's poorer ones, so they're going to be treated for the flu when it happens to them. But, Mr. Minister, I'd just like to remind you of one thing, 2% of the population or citizens of Serbia who have been vaccinated or the percentage that has been vaccinated, didn't you see it as a kind of referendum, trust, above all a campaign that you personally ran and trust the Ministry of Health? I think you should have been seriously concerned about this, especially after the EU came forward and when the EU conducted an investigation, precisely against the pharmaceuticals regarding vaccination and the spread of the pig flu campaign. We can only ask ourselves that way or try to imagine what's going to happen next with these world players and how it's going to affect us. But it is our obligation to restore citizens' trust in the institutions of health, because you are the only ministry and the only minister who is really responsible for every house and every single citizen, and for what is most precious and important to every citizen. We all know who we've been through some personal experience as far as possible abuses and the desire to manipulate human misfortune.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38517	Seven minutes and 30 seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Jovisic, followed by National MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38518	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, I have long waited for this law to be found before the MPs. Waiting for a debate on our relationship, and if you will, responsibility to us, to others and to life. I'm a great fighter for a healthy life and environment without tobacco smoke. That's why I'm gonna let myself be personal. I'm 23 years old, I've never had a cigarette, ever. However, if I did the analysis to see how my organism is now, after so many years spent by smokers, if there were any consequences, I suppose there would be. I know for a fact I'm not the only one. This law will help people just like me. How? All closed workplaces and public spaces will be places where smoking is prohibited. So, all state institutions, schools, hospitals, children's care institutions, social and health care institutions, then cultural institutions, sports and recreation institutions, etc. There will be an institution in which smoking is forbidden. Smoking will also be prohibited in public transport to all, including drivers. Every day I travel from Novi Sad to Belgrade by bus and know how unpleasant it can be at least when a driver or conductor smokes a cigarette. It doesn't happen at all often, but I wish it didn't happen at all. Also, there is plenty of controversy about how this law will treat catering facilities. A lot of this has been explained today by my colleagues, but I will repeat – catering facilities that are less than 80 square meters will be able to determine whether they will determine their space as the one in which smoking will be allowed or the one in which smoking will be banned. Restaurant facilities of more than 80 square metres will have the opportunity to physically determine the room for smokers, so that they cannot endanger non-smoking smokes with harmful tobacco smoke, but also to spare negative views and comments from those who do not smoke. However, the problem of insufficient information that our society cannot free ourselves from is also in this case. So, uninformed non-smokings consider this law very rigorous, smokers again find it too sharp, so they don't know one very important fact, which is that he leaves us all with choices. It is important, however, that when we make any choice in life, so here in this case, we know all the facts, and they speak for themselves when it comes to smoking and this law. So the diseases caused by the effects of tobacco smoke are: breast cancer, lung cancer, coronary heart disease, respiratory disease. In children: bronchitis, asthma, slow growth and lung development. In pregnancy: premature birth or spontaneous abortion. The consequence means one human life less in one day. I am personally grateful to my father who, knowing how harmful these facts are and how cruel the consequences are, although as a passionate smoker, stopped smoking 18 years ago. So he realized and he showed that it was possible to do what many find impossible, it takes will. It is also very important that we show this time that we are able to pass the tests that the future is facing, and here is the present, that our European future sets us up. We must show whether, as a society, we are mature to follow this law to the end, we MPs, then officials in the Assembly, gentlemen journalists, never to sit next to the sign again – no smoking and no smoking. The key, of course, is in use. With good application, which I hope to fully implement in this building here, as well as in all other institutions of the state and those I have already listed, this law will safeguard our health, our lives. When it comes to respecting the law, we have no choice but to respect it. He, however, leaves us with the option of choice in another sense: smoking or health. The choice is up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38519	Four minutes and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has been given by MP Milan Knezevic, followed by MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38520	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, is having a debate all day long, and if we analyze the course of the debate so far, we see in fact that most of the discussion was focused on this, I'm simply saying, the law on the harmfulness of smoking. You see, as a parliamentary group, we absolutely agree that a law like this is necessary. We also believe that absolutely such a law cannot be counted by any party colour, but must be based on all relevant and objective facts. On the other hand, because this and the adoption of this law is one complex problem, and it is certain that all the objective facts that apply in this particular case to two "controversial stakeholders" which are non-smokers and we absolutely believe that each non-smoker has the right to be in an environment without tobacco smoke. We respect their decision to smoke as such and they treat it as harmful... The other interested parties are smokers, who, as one of their own free will, have acquired that habit and who are being given it, we can say an act of satisfaction that certainly, as one of the previous speakers said, is also an appropriate psychological moment. We have an indirect third side of an addict, and this is the entire tobacco industry, not only in terms of products like tobacco, but also in all accompanying employees of persons and other industrial plants, which bring employment to both smokers and non-smokers. So, the law should be so balanced that it finds the right measure for everyone, for non-smoking people to be protected and not to be exposed to tobacco smoke, and for smokers to be given the opportunity in the right way, not endangering the health of the environment, to be able to make their habit or their satisfaction a reality. So some previous speakers have also said that this law goes into the human rights category, non-smoking human rights for a clean environment, and that they are not exposed to tobacco smoke, but in the extreme line, and I am a smoker, and I must say, to us smokers in the right way to respect both the rights and the smokers and their freedoms. So we have to find the right measure. I just wanted in this explanation, not to say again, we heard, many speakers in this session listed all the harmfulities of smoking. Yet in this country, this education, as far as smoking is concerned, takes many years and we've met all of us smokers and non-smokers about all areas of harmful action, so I don't want to talk about it, because maltene is a common-known thing. It is clear that we must find in this law all possible mechanisms to find a balanced relationship and to reconcile seemingly uncompromising things, but can be done, if there is a good will and in the right way heard both sides and respected all the facts. I want, since some have mentioned some bad experiences, about prohibition, you see, we have in this explanation illogical things. That this is a complex problem of illustration between the lines, when reading this explanation can be seen, but we don't have to analyze it. We say that, you see, in the EU eleven countries have passed comprehensive laws. It also lists the number of smokers in developed and undeveloped countries. EU countries are now quoted as saying that the UK has fallen to 22%, America 21%. Look at the paradoxical data. They have these stricter laws to pursue, as the minister mentioned, then, look, the next finding on page 16 – in many European countries 80% to 90% of students aged 13 to 15 say they smoke in houses next to them. Look at the fact that in these developed countries, most say in Europe and America, in children aged 13 to 15 years, 17.3% of students use some kind of tobacco product. I'm just illustrating this as a question. What's that? I repeat, we're not going to analyze. One paradoxical situation that illustrates that this problem is much more complex. We have official statistics from developed countries that have passed tobacco smoke laws with a tendency to smoke, and then we see data by the percentages they've been doing, about the exposure of children in the house. What most of the working population, probably, is my guess, ad hoc, I'm not saying that I'm right, which they failed at work, they compensated in their home, and that's even more to say the more devastating consequence, if these percentages that the Ministry of Explanation gave, that in Western European countries 80% to 90% of children from 13 to 15 years of age are exposed to tobacco smoke. I was merely illustrating this to a bit of a sharp discussion of certain non-smokings, respecting their right to be non-smokers, I respect, and we are for not wanting to endanger their environment and damage their health with our tobacco smoke, but we are asking and I think it would be appropriate, it will show in the future no matter what statistics we use in the future, remain one problem. After all, all these laws of all these Western countries, someone mentioned this morning, and I will, illustrating the hypocritical relationship of all these states. A hypocrite in what way? This is a little bit of what's listed here on tobacco smoke damage. There are much larger studies of science, health and layman are familiar with that. What if all this is so, no state has passed a ban on the production and sale of tobacco? It's the essence of prevention, education, and it's an advocate for the healthy life of its population. There's that problem we've been discussing. It turns big money and the states are hypocritical, and American, and English, and French and all. There are also ongoing promotional campaigns on clear harmfulness, and it does not seem to be a crucial process to ban production and solve the problem. This is a principle discussion because it is obvious that profit, not only is profit and profit in the tobacco industry, but also employment and everything that follows is a more difficult problem that brings financial resources and provides people's existence, so that it is not getting into it and that, although one president of the parliamentary group here mentioned it, to say how much money was spent in health care from these smoking diseases. I'm sure it's enough, but I'm sure there's an even bigger profit. Not to get into all of this, I just wanted to give one glimpse of the complexity of the problem that is clear to all of us, and then in the right way in the law we find the measure where, as we say, the statistical majority are non-smokers, to respect their right to clean air and the environment. But we're asking that in this law, and we're going to have to discuss it through the amendments, hopefully, to find the right measure, and still for that population that, even though, as the minister said, I have to quote it now, that a billion and a half euros or dollars went into smoke. Yeah, it went into smoke, but somebody made it, somebody got paid out of it. So, even in some way smokers, I don't promote smoking, I'm just illustrating, I'm a doctor, I'm still a pathologist who watches every day biopsy of various tumors, that I know all the harmful things very well. To return to those rights, human rights and freedoms, decisions, I accept the harmfulness of tobacco to myself, but I want to protect my environment and my environment. Therefore, it is necessary in the law in the right way to the amendments that have been submitted, I have seen many good amendments, balance many segments, that non-smokers be protected, not exposed to tobacco smoke, and that smokers are properly allowed to have their place to apply this habit, which is, although harmful, but is the personal decision of those individuals. As seen, however, the law is quite rigorous in many segments, and with respect for certain parts it can be corrected. In order to find some measure and not get too much into the details we will discuss with the amendments, again as two or three of my fellow MPs, I urge that later, when the amendments are made, the Ministry respects the illustrations and state the facts of some previous speakers and mine and that we all want the same thing. We believe that this law should be passed, only that every member of the law is properly measured and that we find a solution for non-smokers to be protected, and for us to give smokers the opportunity to consume, use the term, tobacco smoke, in an appropriate and appropriate way. In general, in addition to what I have said, there are appropriate weaknesses in this law, which are generally applied and repeated in other laws, and where we have mentioned such objections in these others before, and things like "can" are repeated here, which occurred in the earlier members of the law, now the word "can", perhaps as well as debated after that little remark, but drastically changing a member of the law or the position of the law. The law can and should not contain that word. It should have a binding term. In particular, when we mentioned Article 3, then we have Article 6 and 7. In Article 3 – an employer may set up a special room exclusively for smoking in a closed workplace. What can he do? He owes. We have to put a binding term here. He's obliged to determine a special room. There you'll give some member of the law a definition when he determines what conditions he needs to meet. The young colleague mentioned Article 8, I think 8 or 6, is not important, just when talking about objects where 80 squares should be determined and said – it can be decided. He is obliged to decide whether this catering facility will be less than 80 square feet for smokers or non-smokers. It is a principled remark and not to list yet in several members should be a binding term and resolve that member. Other members will be properly met. It also has a general view of the law, and a definition of the appropriate ones that are really unnecessary. One of the MPs mentioned the definition of room in Articles 8 and 10, Professor Shami. See, in this regard, this article, Article 8, refers to a catering facility, and I think Article 10 refers to accommodation facilities in special institutions. Yet it is unnecessary to stand that the room has a ceiling and that, apart from having doors and windows, it is closed from all sides. I think that sounds inappropriate, especially because the facilities that have to have technical and other documentation and, if you decide and if it says so in the first position of the member, that the facility will define exactly the rooms that are for smokers and non-smokers, give a definition. I've illustrated one of these absurd definitions. We have mentioned earlier that really some laws require an appropriate order that would be appropriate to the language of the law. In article 1, you provide precise definitions of all concepts. That's where you gave the definition of what a work space is and what a public space is. It's said that the workplace is every closed space and that I don't read any further. Then you keep mentioning – in every indoor work space. If you've given a definition here, then it's quite enough here to say – work space. The working and public space is in Article 2. That's where you said and defined what work space means. You see, these are the technical editorials that are necessary. Let's go to more rigorous things. You see, now he's very pleased with non-smokers that he'll ban smoking in a number of institutions. That's how the minister just responded to smoking in the assembly. If we're passing a law, it's already said, it needs to be applicable. If we go too rigidly, not just in this law. All the laws show that when you go on too rigid a variant, you create such resistance and charge that law enforcement becomes a problem. After a certain time, such a rigid law is counterproductive because it leads to an ever-wide disregard for the law. It should be found, if we recognize that non-smokers should not be exposed to tobacco smoke, that appropriate smoking facilities should also be provided for. I'm a doctor, so I'm going to shut down a health care facility, but the state administration and local self-government, I'm not defending them, so where is social nutrition, social protection areas, etc., why can't there be a space in these institutions that meets the legal requirements for smokers? In fact, it will make it easier to apply the law if you give in all of these major state institutions that there is room for smokers. Then we have these conditions that you gave for the appropriate catering facilities. There really should be a timely relationship there again. If someone who has a larger facility than 80 square meters, makes a calculation of how much it will take to invest, to do the ventilation system, and everything that it needs to do to separate space, maybe it will make it easier to decide that it's space, as you said here where it's given academically, to be in most of the smoking area or for non-smokers. What I'm saying is that on the one hand you're giving the possibility, and on the other hand, the conditions that you need financially to burden the owner will lead him into a dilemma that in any way, the application of this law itself is directly "sabotage." Then we have a responsible person who, in Article 3 of the definition of what the person is responsible for, although I will discuss it in particular, yet in some way in the description of the work that has been given here, should be the employer's dilemma at some point whether it will be a professional person or just a manager or owner who should handle it, in addition to being in charge, and to exercise control, with the obligation to be able to be punished, to pay the fine, to bear sanctions. Generally, as I see time running out, the Ministry will eventually educate the common body in accordance with the regulations. They are listed in Article 21 of the ministry, which is in charge and now, in order to solve the problem and bring the work together, a joint body will be formed to deal with the team. That sounds nice. But let me tell you, how many laws have we passed here, laws that entangle many ministries? If it starts to form common bodies in all areas, then it will grow into one big problem because there are no areas, not just about smoking, there is no area where this Assembly passed laws, where there was no need to form a common body in order to communicate in the realisation of a legal act. In the end, I tried to illustrate in some things that the law here is rigid, that there should be a little more room for smokers, that it would give the right measure of law, that non-smokers be protected, that smokers don't get into a situation to try to break the law. If the law is rigid, the authority of the law itself is more lost, if more and more people want to break it appear. The law is correcting, according to us. So, with respect for the amendments, and there are good ones, maybe they can get ready for this, as we said, a transitional period, and in three years we'll see future statistics and what your laws will look like. In any case, consider the amendments carefully, from how the amendments are respected and we have the appropriate number of well-founded amendments, and our parliamentary group will be determined according to this law, but should be corrected and corrected, and appropriate, and balanced and then we will decide to make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38521	The Progressive Group has used Serbia's time at its disposal to discuss the principle. The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, followed by the National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38522	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies from the Ministry of Health, fellow MPs, I can begin by saying that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support both laws in principle and in the final version when we adopt them, and I will only include with my presentation a law relating to the adverse impact of tobacco on the population of the Republic of Serbia. I see no reason for any of us here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not to support this law that would legally protect the health of Serbian citizens. The fact is and statistics show that in Serbia ten and more years ago, the number of smokers has increased year by year, and statistics also show that after a particular campaign led by the Ministry of Health, through the media of all kinds, there has been a slight decline in tobacco users, but that is not enough yet, and I think that we need to step up the campaign so that we have as many people who leave tobacco and have those young people who won't reach for that vice. We have to say, after all, it's a kind of light drug that affects people's health. I will no longer talk here about those who want to bring themselves into a situation in one way or another to disrupt their health by using tobacco or some tobacco products, but those who are located in their surroundings and nearby and who, under the circumstances, are forced to breathe or have been forced to breathe tobacco smoke and in some way endanger their health. In this way, this law will in some way try – although every law, no matter how good it is in application, has its own certain negative consequences, will it just give these results that we expect from it, but in some ways if the use of tobacco and tobacco products is sanctioned in the rooms where it is prohibited – to still reduce the number of these users and addicts from tobacco and tobacco products. In this way, on the one hand, we will protect people who have used tobacco and tobacco products so far from using that vice, and on the other hand, from those who are experiencing circumstances, as I said, are in a position to find themselves in their vicinity. This law is another contribution to the harmonisation of Serbian legislation with EU legislation, which we all call on, and more MPs have been able to travel across developed European countries and see that in places where it is banned, tobacco and tobacco products are not used, but are consumed in certain rooms, so that those who want to expose themselves to the impact of tobacco smoke and use tobacco and tobacco products may benefit, but others do not have to be in a position to adversely affect their health. In front of this SPS-JS parliamentary group, I am pleased that the campaign led back several years by the Ministry of Health has given some positive results, that there has been a slight decline in the use of tobacco and tobacco products in the population, especially these younger ones, and we have had the opportunity to see and know that many young people, especially people under 18, have started using tobacco and tobacco products in many early years, which negatively affects not only their physical health but also their mental health. In this way and by adopting this law, I think that conditions will be obtained and legally to strengthen, not only legal regulation and punishment, because we also know that the punishment itself will not be enough to prevent further use of tobacco and tobacco products, but must be strengthened by the Ministry of Health and all state institutions and all public campaign institutions to make it known to the population and citizens of Serbia that tobacco and tobacco products are harmful to the health of Serbian citizens, especially this should be expressed in the young population. When I say this, I would also ask Mr. Minister to especially try to influence his colleagues in hospitals, health homes, and others through the Ministry of Education, that people who need their own example show that tobacco and tobacco products are harmful to people's health, to leave tobacco, not to use it at all, not to smoke, as it is said in the people. Because it's not easy to talk at gatherings that tobacco is harmful to people's health, and as soon as you go out with a cigarette. This is what the profession should do, to show by personal example to people that something is harmful to health, not what the people say—one thing you speak, another you think, and another you do. Since we all say in the jargon that tobacco and smoking are easy drugs, what next needs the Ministry of Health to pay particular attention, to carry out a special campaign not only through the Ministry of Health, but also through the Ministry of Education, normally, with the help of the Ministry of Health, to prevent any possible further spread and use of drugs, light, medium and heavy in Serbia. I come from the Marines, where, unfortunately, every day, every week we have a phenomenon that someone loses their lives because of the use of drugs of any kind. When we talk about tobacco, let's not forget and use, it's not about this, but it's a suggestion from the Ministry of Health to take one very broad action, a broad campaign, to convince especially young people that it's very harmful to people's health. What is acceptable for our parliamentary group is that this law leaves very good deadlines for the law to be applied, because it has been left 180 days for all institutions where the rooms are to be determined, to inform each user, or one who enters those rooms where smoking is allowed, where it is not. I think that's a good time. If we wanted to analyze each member of the law, each of us 250 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia could find some objection to a member of the law or a formal, or a language, etc. I guess we're all eager for one goal, which is to try to influence the health of RS citizens better than we are now. One of the causes of this poorer health is the use of tobacco, tobacco products, etc. So let's not tear our hair in half, or along, and find any reason not to vote for this law. It is necessary to vote for this law because the law is good and because it needs to be applied in practice and that is why the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38523	Eight minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. The word has been given by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, followed by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38524	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak primarily of the drug law and medical means. I think a lot is said about the tobacco smoke law, and for and against, and I'm not going to engage in that discussion. It seems to me that Mr. Minister, in his opening part, said that when this bill was passed, there was one dilemma left, whether it was possible to change or write it from the beginning. It was explained on this occasion that adaptation to EU standards required the adoption of a new law. The new law should offer some solutions and answer some questions. Through a number of questions, I will try to explain why this law has failed to answer certain questions. The first question raised in this drug and medical law – where is the patient? What should be the ultimate objective of this law? To keep the medicine cheap, to be available, to be efficient and to be safe. Let's see what the situation today in Serbia is about all of these things that I've listed, and I'll talk about it later. If that is the situation I will explain, let's see how this patient is protected from the condition that is currently on the medicine market in Serbia. Who can protect that patient from the stuff that's happening today on the pharmaceutical market and even on the supply of drugs? Do we have a law on the protection of patients' rights? I've been talking about this for a long time, Mr. Minister. What do we have today in the area of this legislation? We've got an illusion, we've got a surrogate. We've got a so-called. Protector of the patient's rights. Why don't we have the right law? What does the EU say about that? Did you promise that at the beginning of your term in 2002? Yes, and that's what I was talking about, Mr. Secretary. Secondly, let's see if these drugs are cheap and let's open up the question – how much does the Republic Health Insurance Institute pay for these medicines, how does it pay them, and what are the criteria when setting the price of medicines? On the occasion of the parliamentary question on the price of medicines, Mr Minister, since 8 November 2008, you have given me a written answer to this question and in this answer you wrote to me, among other things, that in the Regulation on the criteria for the establishment of the price of medicines, the official messenger and that, as reference countries for the formation of the price of medicines, Slovenia, Croatia, Italy and the EU countries are prescribed, unless there is an appropriate cure for comparison in either of these three countries. We come up with one problem, Mr. Minister, and that's the question -- how many of us in the state of Serbia, and you'll agree that it's not enough, we're giving up people for health care in the head? That's not enough money. There's no dilemma. Let's see how many of these three reference states stand out. Let's see how much of this is allocated per capita in Slovenia – 2,000 euros. How much is that in Italy? That's 1,500 euros. How much is that in Croatia? Over 1,000 euros. If this is our reference line for drug formation, then it is clear why this sum is so large in the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Office. It didn't hate me, Mr. Minister, to look for more facts. In the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the cost of prescription drugs was, I speak for 2008, 11.95%. In 2009, correction was 20.53, and 12.63 is projected in 2010. See why these drugs aren't cheap? Because you're using the wrong parameters, because we're comparing ourselves to something that can't be compared, because we pay for expensive drugs. The third thing, Mr. Minister, raises the question is this law satisfied with domestic pharmaceuticals? In a conversation with some of the top people in domestic pharmaceuticals, the first answer I got was that they weren't consulted enough during a public debate on the adoption of a new law. So what happens to Article 31, 32 and finally Article 230? This second attitude fully binds the hands of a domestic pharmacist, putting them in an unequal position. So, Mr. Minister, as you can see, I also have some objections to domestic pharmaceuticals on this drug law and medical means. You have one key thing. You see, a major concert in Serbia says this title -- "Hemofarm" accuses Mladjan Dinkic. Why is Hemofarm accusing Mr. Mladjan Dinkic? Because the company, which received 70% of the bank's loan, the Development Fund's Management Board, which was managed by Mr Dinkic did not give agreement to the 30%, but referred them to this year. What's going on? How much does it cost to repack drugs, stamps? It's all something you don't have an answer for right now. Why does "Hemofarm" a.d. refer a letter to the assistant minister, pointing to the observations on the proposal for a Regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on the content and manner of marking of the external and internal packaging of the medicinal product and on the content of the user patient manual? See what the local pharmaceuticals say? A series of objections. But let's see what's going on with the pharmacy and the pharmacy. On the Health Committee we received a memo from the pharmaceutical core – a series of remarks, not to read them, not to waste time, you're probably familiar with that. Next question, Mr. Minister, about this law what happens to medical waste? What happens to those drugs that run out of time? Is that what this law is about? How do you regulate that? Do you know that in EU countries the patient has the right to bring to the pharmacy the medicine whose time limit of importance has expired or is invalid? What's going on with us? So, another question to which you, Mr. Minister, seem to have no answer. Finally, there are a number of newspaper articles, articles on smuggled medicines, even medicines produced in domestic pharmacies, so they appear in Kosovo and with the stamp of the Kosovo Ministry of Health appear in our pharmacies. Is there a health inspection about that? Is he doing anything about it? It seems to me, Mr. Minister, very little. A series of these things, a series of smuggled drugs, drugs of suspicious origin can be found in our pharmacies. Then what's going on? It happens to be accused pharmacists, and more than 1,000 private pharmacies operate in Serbia. The question is, are these people responsible for this situation or should someone else be held accountable? It seems to me, Mr. Minister, that you should have the answer to this question as well. In the end, I'm going to say something else that I think is very relevant. You said as much as yesterday or yesterday that we had enough unused vaccines against the new flu, and you said in one statement, it seems to me in an interview with Evening News, that we would give it to a poorer country in Africa. I didn't realize what it was, but I realized that out of the 850,000 imported doses, 155,000 doses of vaccines were spent. Mr. Minister, I'm asking how much did this cost the state of Serbia? How much is that part of the vaccine found in the state of Serbia? Mr. Minister, there's also a contract with "Yugochemy," which is why I asked the question while the topic was current. This topic is over. I also found news that got me so worried. "Yugochemy" says the alteration of the agreement on the purchase of vaccines has consequences. The Republic Bureau says there isn't, and Jugochemy says there is. You know, it's just amazing one thing, to see if we needed three million doses of vaccine or if it took 600,000, how much did some epidemiologists recommend? Are all the risk groups covered by the vaccine? If they didn't, why didn't they? Why were people forced, those who were healthy, who did not need to be vaccinated? So these vaccines can be spent? Mr. Minister, at the beginning of the pandemic, you scared the people very much, and you and your task force, saying that Serbia will suffer between two and two and a half million people. By seeing certain working groups that opened up a special type of hospital, so these hospitals were called febrile hospitals, in world medicine there was an unknown term of febrile hospital, so over 20,000 people were said to be hospitalized, and at first, when you knew there was going to be an epidemic you and your Ministry welcomed this epidemic completely unprepared. I remember the story of transporting the patient from Kruševac to Nis, to Belgrade. The question is, where did the patient die? Were there enough respirators at the time? Were there enough masks? So you have not given any of these questions a precise and clear answer. I've listed a number of problems here from the price, from the public's reaction to the bill, and I certainly expect you to answer some questions to discuss, and I certainly expect that they will come to the Health Committee when discussed in particular, and then we will talk more about these things from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38525	16 minutes of MEP time used. The People's MP Dejan Nikolic has the word, followed by the folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38526	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that with special attention I welcomed this law because it concerns all of us, and Jelena and Milan from Soko Banja who are smokers, and Ivana from Nis and Anna from Belgrade who are non-smoking, but who would like to come to Soko Banja and in peace, without tobacco smoke, talk to their friends. This is a law that has no compromise, because there is no compromise on life. I must admit, I have listened very carefully to the presentations of all the MPs. I personally appreciate all the different thoughts, thank God they're different, I guess that's normal. I have not heard that the thoughts or attitudes of any of us differ about the essence, and the essence is that man’s health should be protected. The point is that the right to a healthy life without tobacco smoke should be regulated legally. As strong as the arguments against this law are, they will always be weaker than the arguments about the fundamental right of every man to a healthy life. We all talked to our neighbors, our friends about this law. We've been reading, listening to debates and discussions in public, and as the main thing that's been going through the discussion, it's "no ban." Today, however, we must make it clear to the citizens that the ban is not the key word of this law. The key word of this law is "protection", as are the key words of this law "introduction of order and human health". Is there a dilemma in this room about it – that health is the most important thing in the world? I believe there is no dilemma in this room, as there is no dilemma beyond it. The World Health Organization's data that by the end of this year, in the last five years, more people will die from the impact of tobacco smoke in the world than it did in World War II are terrifying. For me personally, there are far more terrible data – that Serbia is one of 18 countries with a negative natural background, that Serbia is a country that imports 50m euros more tobacco than it exports, that Serbia is a country where it dies annually 16. A thousand people, and I don't want to count any further. I think this is quite enough for us to form awareness of the need to solve such a big question. Behind many forums, discussions, debates, conferences, there were mostly many more outstanding issues left than answers. This law, with good application, can be the answer to many outstanding questions – as they did in Ireland in 2004, England in 2007, Croatia and Turkey in 2008, where they completely banned smoking, or as they did in Bulgaria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Austria, where they partially banned smoking. If we compare this law to the laws of the countries I was talking about, we can say that we are talking about a moderate law, so the Irish pub from Soko Banja, or the owners of this Irish pub, will be able to choose whether their place will be for smokers or non-smokers. This law gives them the right to choose, as it gives the right to all the guests in Serbia to choose whether their locals will be for smokers or non-smokings, if they have up to 80 square metres. In this way we respect the rights of smokers and respect their needs. They will continue to have their place in favorite restaurants and cafes, respecting the reality in Serbia and not running away from such an important fact and that economic aspect of the application of this law. We have to say much louder that this is a law that in a very precise and clear way protects non-smokers from the influence of tobacco smoke, by completely prohibiting smoking - in public places, in jobs, in public transport. This is also a law that will be very precise and very precise way of preventing our youngest, schoolboys, who shouldn't light their first cigarette. In the end, we know that the quality of the law is not measured by the ideal and the idea of which it is written, but by the applicability of real life. I sincerely hope that this law will apply in practice much better than it is currently applicable, that is, this previous law. Expecting that there will be fewer and fewer smokers in Serbia, expecting that the number of 19,000 dead from the impact of tobacco smoke, or passive smokers, will be getting smaller in Serbia, expecting that there will be a growing number of children burning their first cigarette – I will vote for this law, because it does not take anyone's right to do what it wants with his life. With respect to this law, we will respect more the life of the one next to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38527	Five minutes and 40 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic, followed by MP Milan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38528	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, dear citizens of Serbia, I will speak with argument about those things that are bad in the draft law on the protection of the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. The proposal for this law is not a condition for Serbia's entry into the EU. The law was proposed to implement the World Health Organisation's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which the Republic of Serbia ratified on 9 February 2006, and entered into force on 9 May 2006. Of the 27 EU member states, the Framework Convention has ratified 26 countries, while the Czech Republic is only a signator for now. The Serbian Radical Party believes the law is the result of compromise and is not good, as it imposes extreme unrealistic expectations, protects tobacco producers and profiteers, such as tobacco distributors, casinos, catering facilities. Why, Mr. Minister, have you not worked since 2005 on the implementation of a still valid tobacco smoke harmful law? It's just amazing that only after a few years, or at the end of 2009, did you and your ministry realize that the current law is inaccurate, exceeded and that it needs to be changed. In Serbia, in addition to this law, the Smoking Control Strategy, adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia on 18 January 2007, is in force. Then the Ministry of Health formed the Commission for the Prevention of Smoking, and Dr Milan Jovanovic-Bataut worked for the tobacco control office years ago at the Institute of Public Health. There is also a Council for Tobacco Control of the Republic of Serbia and is made up of representatives of several ministries. What results have been achieved with all possible regulations, laws, promotions, expensive events and campaigns that led to budget cuts during the economic crisis and did not give the expected results, except for personal promotions? The health ministry has been organising various anti-smoking campaigns for 10 years and smoking has left 6.9% of the population – not one percent per year. Dr. Krstev, president of the Commission for the Prevention of Smoking, on May 29, 2009, on the occasion of May 31st, World Smoke-free Day, presented very disturbing and alarming news – 23% of pregnant women smoked throughout pregnancy and 37% in some period. You, Mr. Minister, on April 29th 2009, at the "Duvan and the Costs of Serbia's Health System" rally, stated that each sixth death in Serbia is related to smoking. So tobacco is the only legal product that people die from, and that the only reason for its existence is the profits of the companies that produce it, so they try to attract consumers with more attractive design boxes. In Serbia, there is still not enough awareness of how harmful tobacco smoke is to the brain, heart, lungs, blood vessels and that the public has the right to know the full truth. Every year more than five million people die because of tobacco. More than HIV infection, AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis together. Research has shown that 70% of non-smoking people in Belgrade were found nicotine in the body because they were mostly exposed to tobacco smoke in the workplace. Smoke smoke is the biggest serial killer. The tobacco smoke contains over four thousand poisons that have a bad effect on health, 50 of which have been shown to be carcinogenic. Equally threatened are those who smoke, and those who breathe smoke, so-called. Passive smokers. According to the World Health Organization, more than one billion people smoke in the world today. If they don't stop smoking, one-third to one-half will die from the effects of smoking, and on average 15 years earlier. In Serbia, according to 2006 studies, 38% of men and 29% of women smoke. What is extremely worrying is that more than half of Serbia's school children, between 13 and 15 years of age, more than 50%, already smoked cigarettes, and every sixth, 16.33%, currently smokes. Approximately one third and 31.30%, respectively, burned their first cigarette before they turned 10 years old, indicating high potential use of tobacco and potentially high prevalence of tobacco - causing diseases. On average, both girls and boys in Serbia smoke equally and, more or less, in the same number as girls and boys in Europe. Now he'd be missing the bill that's ahead of us. As we have already said, the SRS believes this law is the result of compromise. The government of the Republic of Serbia has given up a total ban on smoking in a closed area under pressure from tobacco companies and hosts. The "Today" list announced on December 23rd last year that the draft law was completed in October 2009, but was not originally adopted at a cabinet session. It is indicative that a meeting with tobacco companies was attended by G17 Plus ministers, who later persuaded coalition partners to give up a complete smoking ban. There are about 9,000 catering facilities in Serbia that employ about 600,000 people. Associations in the People's Initiative urged the Serbian government not to adopt the original draft law. Come on, Jurekli, adviser to the World Health Organisation in Geneva, noted that Serbia is among the countries that control the financing of the tobacco industry and stressed that it is necessary for Serbia to raise tobacco taxes. The SRS advocates the introduction of order and regulation that is effective and enforceable and that will enable the solution to such an important problem. The bill proposed by the Ministry of Health is neither systemically nor will constitute an institutional framework to protect the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. I'll start with Article 5 of the proposed law on catering facilities, and I'll start with Article 3. In this attitude 3. it is said that if the space of the catering facility cannot be evenly distributed the space in which smoking is prohibited and the area on which smoking is allowed, the responsible person in the catering facility is obliged to place most of the room, i.e. tables, counters, bars and other areas on which food or drink is served and which are grouped in a visual continent as the area in which smoking is prohibited. That this space must be located next to the entrance to the catering facility. I'd like to hear from Mr. Minister in what way he thinks he can stop the spread of tobacco smoke, which we know is in what an aggregate state, in the space of a catering facility that cannot be evenly deployed to the area where smoking is banned and the area in which smoking is allowed. Also, as a psychiatrist, I can't help but look back at article 9 of this law regarding accommodation in special institutions. In this Article, paragraph 9, point 2, that smoking is allowed in particularly specific rooms where patients of special hospitals for the treatment of psychiatric diseases, or patients of psychiatric departments, simply put this bill impossible. Anyone who worked in psychiatry and who works in psychiatry must realize that this is a kind of discrimination of psychiatric patients, if we know the nature of psychiatric patients at all. In psychiatric hospitals, as you stated here, you treat severe mental patients, psychotic mental patients, who have such a nature of disease that you cannot limit them to one room. Because of the side effects they have of the drugs, you can't control their movement, so unfortunately you don't think that now in the 21st century you'll limit these patients by fixing them for beds, taking away cigarettes or giving medications to avoid smoking. Since they're all mostly forced to be hospitalized, by Article 45. The law on non-partisan proceedings or Article 10. The health care law, none of them that are in this way that you have stated here are mostly voluntaryly hospitalized, so in some psychiatric hospitals that are mostly so-called. large psychiatry, where severe mental patients are treated, in some ways they have already been deprived of their right to treatment by reducing the number of beds to treat these mental patients from 2000, and you have denied them treatment in one adequate way. Perhaps it is also an increase in this violence and everything and the consequence of you trying to open up psychiatry and let psychiatric patients on the street, which I think is inhumane, that discrimination against these mental patients and as a psychiatrist, who spent 23 years working at one of the most difficult psychiatric hospitals "Dr Lazarevic", I have advocated all this time to protect the rights of mental patients and to grant them their rights. That's why I think you can allow these mental patients, if you're in a good mood, to smoke, just as you've allowed those persons in the investigation process to smoke. It's about this member and this law. Then, I only said that for five minutes, I won't repeat the responsible persons, I won't talk about it, but I will say within this law that it is unnecessary to introduce an office and commission, because those, as I have already said, exist and there are persons who are in charge, and that it is necessary to simplify the expensive state administration. In Serbia, several years ago, the Republic Commission for the Prevention of Smoking, whose president is Dr. Krstev, works under the Institute of Batut Primaryius Dr. Djeletovic is head of the smoking prevention office. Furthermore, the multiplication of institutions dealing with the same business is, in fact, an additional burden on the otherwise modest budget fund. At the time of the economic crisis, when tobacco smoke is not the greatest risk to the health of the population, we must try to reduce the number of commissions, agencies and similar institutions that withdraw additional costs, not contributing significantly to the implementation of the tobacco smoke prevention and control programme. In the end, the SRS calls on smokers to stop smoking, and those who cannot do so in the presence of non-smokers. We're also in favour of a primary prevention that has been potentiated by this law. However, you have already talked about smoking, as well as alcoholism and as a drug addict, being classified in disease addiction. We know that all addiction diseases are being treated, so within this law, you haven't mentioned at all the possibility of secondary prevention of people who can't voluntarily stop smoking, so I think that's one of the problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38529	15 minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by MP Milan Vukkovic, followed by MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38530	Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, it was very interesting for me to listen to the predecessor, the only thing I didn't understand is why she wouldn't support this law, because the argument is absolutely in place and I support her, and it would be very useful for you to vote for that law, and then the Assembly would send a clear message that smoking in a closed space is harmful to the health of citizens. But well, that's your right. What I should stress in this discussion is that most citizens in Serbia today are smokers. Because other than those over one third who are active smokers, many others, the vast majority of others are daily forced to breathe that tobacco smoke in their workplace, in cafes, in public transport, in taxi transport, and that's what this law treats and that's what we consider a problem. Today in Serbia, you would have to live alone in a cabin, in the woods, so you wouldn't be forced to breathe that smoke, to have the privilege of not entering your body nicotine, tar, carbon monoxide and thousands of other substances in tobacco smoke, which you don't even know your name, and you're a non-smoker. The smoker, when smoking most often cigarettes, breathes about 15% of the smoke, the other 85%, if he smokes in a closed room, he selflessly shares with the others. Others in that room are forced to be smokers, even though they don't want to be smokers. Because it is seen that there are problems that occur exclusively with smokers and non-smokings, the term is designed – passive smoking, so that all of us in Serbia today or a large majority of us are unfortunately passive smokers. The proposed law allows freedom for those who want to be a smoker to be, and those who don't want to be, they don't have to be. Like me, thank you, colleague. Of course, everyone has the right to live life the way he thinks it's best and everyone has the right to, if he's grown up and if he needs to smoke, he does, but he has no right to endanger the health of others. I deeply believe that the fundamental right of every man is freedom, but sometimes we have to limit one freedom to expand the space of freedom for everyone else. As we must limit the freedom of one who would like to park in the middle of the road and make it impossible for citizens to pass normally, so to prevent the freedom of movement for the majority of citizens, so we need to restrict those who wish to light a cigarette, let's say, at a working meeting where his non-smoking colleagues are present, we need to deny him that right, we need to limit his freedom, to allow those who want to breathe healthy, clean air in their workplace to do so. Simply, this law is not restrictive in this sense, it is a law that extends the space of freedom for the vast majority of our citizens. We human beings, we bring in food a few times a day, we put in liquids a little more often, but we breathe every five seconds, and then that air that enters our lungs, through the bloodstream, spills all over the body. Now, if you don't breathe clean air, breathe toxic air, imagine what our body looks like, whether we're smokers or not. We also heard from the minister today, and from many colleagues and colleagues today, many data on the harmfulness of smoking, on the diseases it causes, on statistics, and I don't want to repeat these dreary data, but I want to underline that smoking today is the most endangered children, although children are most often non-smokers. Kids are the most innocent passive smokers. Their body is more sensitive, their lungs are weaker, and with smaller children breathing faster and more contaminated. This is a law that MPs should vote on and the National Assembly should support because it is our duty precisely because of these children. It rarely happens to me that when I walk, say, through Kragujevac, which is my hometown, and I look through the window of a pie shop, I don't see any kid eating his favorite candy in a cloud of smoke. Our job is to protect these little lungs with this law, and that's what we do and what we're going to do when we pass this law. So, the law is not restrictive, non-smoking should not be afraid, but this law introduces order, it must be known when smoking is allowed, where and where smoking is not allowed. As Honorable counterpart Gordana Comic said, when people cannot agree with each other, then the law comes into force, then it is necessary for the state to pass some law and to lay down rules. Otherwise, if people could easily agree on it, it wouldn't be necessary to pass the law, but since it's almost impossible in practice, then let us as a state, as parliament set clear standards on what is allowed, which is not. This law very precisely defines it, very clearly, in this unrestricted way, leaves the possibility in cafes to smoke, also in some working rooms that are specifically defined for it. Therefore, let MPs of other opposition parties also vote for this law, because their argument is the same as ours. Anyone who wants to be a smoker, so be it. Anyone who doesn't want to be can't be. That's our message. This is the health law of our entire nation. Let's back him up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38531	Six minutes and five seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, time available for 3.20 minutes, followed by national MP Natasa Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38532	I'm very sorry that the minister came out, he probably antiquated what I'm going to say. Serbia currently does not seem to have a higher priority in the area of health care than the adoption of this bill, which, however, is not a condition for EU membership, but, as I understand the Minister of "the Greater", is the last major venture before his final resignation. But don't, dear Serbian citizens, be overjoyed, as you were looking forward to when recently a daily newspaper published a funny news story: "Tomica Milosavljevic resigned" and in a slightly smaller letter added "to the position of the chairman of the G17 City Committee". If he, as a constant of every government, has, after Leposava, estimated that of all disease addictions, it is now necessary to fight addiction against tobacco, then it is surely true, as in that watering graphite, "someone has put tobacco in our heroin again". Poisoners draw children to cigarettes, instead of letting them finely let the former slogan "sex end drags end rock-and-roll" down to "drags online", drunk minors stab themselves with knives, the youngest registered junkie is nine years old, but it is therefore important to protect the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. Nobody even mentions marijuana smoke. Who would not believe in the good intentions and evaluations of the Minister of the Great, when he was ready to turn his sleeve first for, however, a three-bit million-dollar commission and make a kind of coalition for pig flu, with strong statements of the type "it's impossible to avoid the pandemic". Even the flu-hitters in one of the European public service's most watched shows have come to the conclusion that even the refusal of the people to receive a vaccine so offered is a sign of mistrust in the country. A percentage of 2.5% of Serbian citizens who said the vaccine is a kind of referendum answer to the question whether you trust the majority minister and the government in general. It was not expected that this majority minister would act as Japanese Transport Minister, who could not stand to have trains late 20 minutes a year, so he resigned, but it is not the most normal thing to say to the Minister forever – regardless of the severity of the swine flu epidemic, the public would remain dissatisfied, I remain a minister. After all, it is always possible to donate extra vaccines to the poorer than we are, humanely, and since we already have that excess and priority in developing healthy lifestyles will be hunting smokers, I'm all afraid that some commissions will be coming to sniff our fingers, to see if, in the meantime, we've smoked and, of course, smoking, especially if you want to touch the boss, it might be a good suggestion that these nasty wedding smokers are being vaccinated, so let's do another in vivo experiment in Serbia. Why hasn't the Ministry of Health launched a long-term study on the impact of poor uranium, or is it less harmful than tobacco smoke? Oh, great, the minister's coming back. It's nice that the minister just walked in and turned his sleeve, but it's not nice that that sleeve isn't still turned to work. As for the majority minister's comment that health workers have done their job with honor and that it is not right for the opposition to attack them, it seems that due to today's stress exposure, Tomica, a little bit, to use his syntagm, has misinterpreted discussions. Health care professionals in Serbia are also sleeve-fed and, given the conditions they operate, they are real movables. No one challenged them, challenged the minister's evaluations, actions and competences as politicians. Considering...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38533	Three minutes, 20 seconds. The time available for your parliamentary group has been used. Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Natasa Vuckovic, followed by the MP Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38534	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is very indicative that today most MPs who have spoken about the law on preventing exposure to citizens to tobacco smoke are actually unable to disprove the importance of this law and that, despite being criticised that it is more restrictive or less restrictive than what they would have wanted, none of us can really disprove the results of medical research and, whether we are members of a medical profession or not, we cannot agree with dominant opinions that smoking is harmful, or that at least we do not say that it is not useful in any case. What should not be dominant in this debate or in the Assembly, but not in our society, is a division of those who protect smokers or those who protect non-smokers. This is not a question of advocacy to each other, and I think that in our public, it was not the case in our Parliament, so I am speaking, first of all, about the public, it does not need a debate on this issue to take such tones. That's my opinion. We're talking about something that is of interest to society and community interest in general. They are right to say that adopting such solutions is not a European standard, that it is not necessary for Serbia to join the EU. This is true from the point of view of what may be the context of Aki Komuniter or the legal course of the EU. What is true is that smoking prevention has become a dominant public policy in all European countries. You have information that of the 27 EU member states 26 have ratified the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. It has also been ratified by Serbia and this law falls within the scope of the implementation of this Framework Convention. And the Czech Republic is likely to ratify this convention very soon. Based on this convention, we adopted a tobacco control strategy in 2007. This strategy has defined that we will lead one specific policy of smoking prevention, run certain campaigns to prevent and reduce harmful effects of tobacco. Is this law the most restrictive possible? My opinion is that it is not, that it sharpens the smoking ban in what is the public sphere, which is public spaces etc., but leaves the possibility of choosing whether there will be room for smokers or non-smokings when it comes to catering facilities. When we compare solutions accepted in different EU countries, you have two countries in the EU that have a complete ban. It's Ireland and England. In nine countries there is a partial ban, and in 16 countries there is a partial ban on the system of division of space for smokers and non-smoking areas. The issue of protecting citizens from exposure to tobacco smoke is one democratic issue for me. It's a question of how and whether anyone has the right to endanger the healthy environment of another citizen. The issue of protecting citizens from exposure to tobacco smoke is also a question of social responsibility. Society is defined as being socially acceptable to the public and to the community. That's what society in the most part thinks is good behavior. I think we all agree and today's debate has shown that fighting to prevent, or reduce, the harmful fact of tobacco is something we consider desirable in our community. The question we are discussing today also falls within the scope of human rights. I'll remind you that we've brought in another strategy besides the tobacco control strategy. It is a strategy for safety at work and we have passed a new Safety at Work Act, one of the very important economic and social rights is the right to a safe and healthy job. When you compare this to the fact that 70% of those working in Serbia are exposed to tobacco smoke at their workplace, then we will see that these strategies have to be touched somewhere, that is, the issue of protecting citizens from exposure to tobacco smoke is also a question of very basic human rights. What's important to point out is that this law is not just about non-smoking protection. I think he's also protecting smokers in some way from themselves. When we talk about the fact that 30 per cent of Serbian citizens are smokers, I think we'll all agree that when we look at our friends or relatives, out of ten of them probably three are thinking about leaving smoking, trying to quit smoking, or intending to do so in some period ahead of them. The experience of countries that have had these protection mechanisms for a long time has shown that these mechanisms of protection against exposure to tobacco smoke, i.e. the restriction of the right to smoke in certain situations leads to a certain reduction in smoking and that is a positive effect that we expect by applying this law. It is right that there are many other evils that we are surrounded by. We're talking about alcohol, drug addicts, harmful influences in our environment, but that's what we're fighting. We've come up with a strategy, different laws, and we're applying them. We need to control how we apply them. This law belongs to something that is a question of whether we are as a society and as individuals ready to change. We bring numerous laws – food safety, building safety, environmental protection. These are all laws that make us ourselves bound to change in everyday life and in our workplace. This shows to what extent we are as citizens, not just declaratively, ready to self-discipline in some EU accession process, to what extent we are ready to accept change in everyday life. That's the way it is with this law. By this law, when we adopt it and start applying it, we'll show whether we're ready to change and whether we're ready to just discipline ourselves. It's one phenomenon that I think our society needs very much. It means whether we will be more responsible to other citizens as citizens. This means whether, as educators, when we respect the provisions on banning smoking in schools, high schools, universities, we will send a direct message to young generations that smoking is harmful and that we expect them to follow such socially acceptable behavior, not to start smoking. As doctors, will we be responsible for our patients and send them, too, a clear message that we agree with the results of medical science, that we accept the harmfulness of smoking and that we do not smoke in hospitals. Will, of course, as civil servants, as MPs, as ministers, as all those who work with us, for example in parliament, journalists, be able to respect the decisions and regulations we make. This question, of course, is multidisciplinary or should I say the question of the application of this law is not just within the domain of the Ministry of Health. It would be very good if there were a Minister of Education today, Minister of State Administration, because I believe there is a need for a kind of social and political consensus on the need for compliance with this law. There is an observation that the penalties for disregarding the provisions of this law are very high. We'll see how it works. I hope so, and I wish that the application of this law would not make a contribution to a more significant charge of the state budget on the basis of the payment of fines due to non-compliance with this law. I believe that as a society both as citizens and as individuals, we will show in our daily lives the awareness of the need to be more responsible to ourselves, but also to the people we live with. That's why I'm going to vote for this law, of course, and I'm calling on everyone else to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38535	Nine minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Đura Muchenski. After him, MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38536	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with special pleasure today we are taking part in this discussion of the law on the protection of the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. Today, we have made such a real parliamentary atmosphere, a quality discussion, where virtually every speaker's discussion can see whether it belongs to a group of smokers or non-smokers, and that we have come out of some party frameworks and that we are all, in some way, giving our arguments and counterarguments the right parliamentary quality of the debate of the law that should be as such an example for all other debates. I will simply present several historical facts and basic indicators that show the seriousness of the problem arising from the active and passive inhalation of smoke. Duvan is, we all know, the name of the genus of green plants, as well as the most famous species of common tobacco called "Nicotian Tabakum", which is planted all over the world to collect the leaves used for smoking. He was named after the last name of a French MP – Jean Nikot, who sent tobacco to France, see the paradox, for use in medicine in 1560. Although legally accepted tobacco, or nicotine in almost all countries of the world is one of the largest poisons that a person consciously introduces into his own organism, endangering his health and, in doing so, endangering the health of others. There are some 4,000 harmful and 43 carcinogenic substances in tobacco smoke that cause 40 different diseases. Nicotine as an integral part of tobacco smoke is a high-toxic drug and creates a serious addiction. We have to keep that in mind when we talk about this law. The greatest attention of this law should be drawn to the fact highlighted by my colleague Milan Vukkovic, which is children. Research done by the World Health Organization shows that almost half of the world’s children are exposed to passive smoke intake. Unfortunately, Serbia is ahead of the survey in 2008. Our children aged 13 to 15 have said that over 77% live in a household where they are exposed to passive smoking and smoke intake. Another fact that is devastating is the number of smokers among children. At 13 to 15 years of age, there is, unfortunately, a comparison with the world – 8.9%, a slightly lower percentage in our population. In some things, we've simply arrived at the world, which, unfortunately, is not good in this case. Every year in the world, four million people lose their lives because of smoking. Every cigarette that smokes shorts its life in seven minutes. You know, as you sit with your family or with your friends, finishing a cigarette, you consciously shorten your life in seven minutes. One of the most important things in this light of all these discussions is that smoking addiction disease is, unfortunately, widely accepted, because it does not cause direct harmful effects such as drug abuse and alcohol, and thus it is very dangerous. Although the tobacco industry provides profits and jobs for thousands of workers, by the way, these workers are said to have no profits, the biggest profit of which is made by the tobacco industry. In all countries, at all levels of development and income, the poor smoke the most and are most burdened by smoking diseases. Each country suffers from high economic costs due to health care costs and productivity reductions due to smoking-induced diseases. In highly developed countries, it has been estimated that between five and 15% of the cost of costing health services to treatment diseases as a consequence of smoking. Smoking is the main reason and main risk factor for chronic obstructive diseases, for lung malignancies, for cardiovascular diseases, for heart attack and for insulins, as well as for bronchitis and asthma in children. In Serbia, 4,300 new lung cancer people are registered each year. The cure isn't certain, and it costs a lot to the state. For one in the world, in developed countries, 25,000 euros are allocated from lung cancer, so much for his annual treatment. This would be on an annual level of 107m euros or about 10 billion dinars, and we know that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is 750 billion dinars. We can only compare what number that would be if we had to isolate that number for those patients. What is somehow a sign of what we need to do and what my colleague Simo Vukovic said, what Finland did. Finland half a century ago, 76% of men had smokers. Through the educational programme, through various programmes that the state has implemented, they have reduced that number to 26%. In 50 years, one percent a year, and that's a success. What did they get? They got the results. They've reduced the number of lung cancer patients by an incredible 63%. This is all in favor of aggressive entry into the anti-smoking battle. In the world, 137 countries signed a UN tobacco control agreement. Two basic things are going as a message from the agreement, that all governments should pass laws to protect the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, and that they should carry out educational campaigns to reduce exposure to smoke in the household, because it is still very high. What are the reasons for this law? The main reasons are that systemically, the legal arrangements for protecting the population from tobacco smoke, which means completely removing tobacco smoke from work and public space, creating safe conditions for the working environment and thus reducing the cost of protection at work. That the prevention of action affects children and young days starts with smoking, and the adult population who smokes to leave smoking and devote themselves to a healthy lifestyle. This is how we implement the obligations of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which this National Assembly adopted on 9 February and entered into force on 9 May 2006. In the end, we meet the obligation of the state to protect individuals from tobacco smoke by passing such laws. I will not deal with issues that are regulated by the ban on smoking in closed public spaces, in public transport, in exceptions, it is something that has been the subject of the debate of all MPs and it is clear that it is a real way to pass a law that can be implemented and enforceable in our terms. I would refer more to the other part of the story, and that's the story of law enforcement. I had one dilemma, there is one part of this law called in the text itself – social concern for the health of the population in the Republic of Serbia. At this point, I'd say state concern. The state's concern for this reason is that I still don't think that we have the capacity of awareness in our population about the harmfulness of tobacco smoke and that the state has to take certain steps, and we, as MPs, who are representatives of citizens and who are doing this state, need that part of the job to bring out, to create conditions and to carry out what is the main task, which is to preserve the health of the population. The day we manage to change our consciousness through education, through education, we get to that step, then I think we can say it'll be a social concern. At this point, I think it's the state's concern. Those two things we have to do, we can do it the next way. One is a criminal policy, which is part of the legal provisions, and the other is to change consciousness through education, education and through the adoption of certain prevention programmes to combat the use of tobacco products. If that were possible, we have a living example from recent practice, when we passed a traffic law that drastically changed driving habits. It was incomprehensible that minority people tied their seat belts, even making statements in the National Assembly that some ministers were not the ones doing it. Today we see everyone driving with lights on and everyone fastening their seat belts. So sometimes we have to apply certain restrictive measures to influence the acceptance of certain legal standards and to make everyone realize that this is a serious matter that we are committed to. In order to ensure social care for the health of the population, the minister will bring a programme for prevention, institutionalally on which the old Institute of Public Health, and the Commission for the Prevention of Use of Tobacco, will bring forward a proposal for a programme of measures to prevent and prevent smoking. Since there is often such a joke in our political practice – if you don't want to solve the problem, then you form a commission, so it gets loose. I hope so, and I'm sure it won't be like that, one little joke. In fact, I expect the Commission and Mr. Minister to make this proposal a precautionary measure and this second part of what the Commission should do, which is to monitor and assess annual activities and achieve the results of the programme implementation we hear in a report in a year. Let's see what we've done, see how many fines have been charged, how many institutions have been processed, and how much has really been done after a while. There's a huge obligation in front of all of us, the biggest one right now is officially on Mr. Secretary because he's a bill promoter, but we all need to know that one man can't enforce the law. In this we must help him all, to make our contribution. What we all expect of him, and there has absolute support of me, to be extremely restrictive and extremely, as far as possible, consistent in the application of this law. In this I expect the help of all the MPs of the people, because if we, as MPs, do not respect the law we make, how can we expect citizens to respect it? There's a lot of responsibility on us. I'd like to point out one more thing. I'm a doctor by profession. From today’s discussion, it was seen as a smoker, but as a smoker. We had a quality discussion that came out of the party frameworks. We saw the opposite and the arguments for it, but from all of this I would draw one sentence that they taught me first in medicine, rule number one—priming non-nights, primarily don't hurt. Let's all take one step. I think doctors, as the most responsible people who run and conduct health care, should be an example to everyone else to show that smoking is something that is harmful to health and to show by their own example that it is not to be done and that it should be taken away from it. I'm an ex-smoker, I managed to deal with it. I call upon all other colleagues to set an example. I call on Mr. Minister to be consistent in the application of this law and this will have the sure support of all MPs, she is clear, obvious from all the discussions that were under discussion today. Perhaps not all MPs will vote for this law, even though some MPs from the post would not vote for this law, that we would have support from the opposition ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38537	14 minutes and 40 seconds of MP time have been used. The People's Messenger Nikola Lazic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Srdjan Milivojevic. The DSS parliamentary group is available for nine minutes and 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38538	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Muchenski mentioned certain disturbing facts in the previous discussion. I would like to express this concern by the fact that from the present list of speakers, it seems to me that 13 colleagues have spoken so far, only one MP focused on the analysis of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Resources. This merely points to the fact that this debate seems to have passed without a thorough analysis of this legislative proposal and that discussions on these two topics should be separated. I'm gonna focus on the drug and medical law. Otherwise, this proposal represents a good part of the alignment with the EU Directive 2001/83, i.e. the drug regulation. This legislative proposal is a good part of the fruit of co-operation, i.e. The marketing project with the French Agency for Medicinal Products, during which the assessment of the rules on medicinal products and other relevant documents in this area was made. As far as I am aware, this legislative proposal was also commented by representatives of the Agency for Medicinal Products, and the Faculty of Pharmacy and the Republic Department for Pharmacy, or representatives of the profession, as well as the Association of Private Producers, Importers, etc. It seems to me that the legislators were quite rigid on the expert remarks from various circles and that legal logic at the heart of the expert, or medical, was dominated when writing this law. I'd like to refer to some specific examples that support this, such as generic drugs. As everyone knows, Serbia is mainly a generic market, or 70% of the medicines produced in Serbia are generic. To make it simple, it means that these medicines are actually made as a kind of copy of the medicines that are so-called medicines. References that have existed and been used for a long time. In order for these generic drugs to be placed on the market, it must be demonstrated that they are as effective and as safe as themselves as the reference, or original drugs. It seems to me that one of the shortcomings in this legislative proposal is precisely an inadequate definition of the reference medicine and I think that for the effect it can have that the effectiveness of the drug that is generated is compared to a medicine that is essentially not relevant. Only a medicine that has its own studies, both preclinical and clinical, can have reference status and may serve as comparison in a generic drug study. An important segment is also the control and inspection of drugs. The control carried out by the ministry would need to be much more quality and intensive, especially when assessing whether medications over time meet the conditions and standards as at the very beginning, at first placing on the market. It also raises the question of the quality of control over drug trafficking performed by the ministry's inspection services. When it comes to the fact that only eight inspectors in the ministry are concerned with this issue and are tasked with controlling both producers, both wholesales and pharmacies, the process itself and distribution, it is clear that capacities are not enough to make it look good. For example, in France, the inspection work is in the jurisdiction of the drug agency, and here there is resistance to even partially getting the job out of the ministry's work. Why it is not in the law and why there is no mood to pass it on to the agency, which grants licences and medical certificates, is not clear. I think the effectiveness of the inspection is also the fact that we do not have a developed system for the detection of counterfeit drugs, and the illustration is that no plagiarization was detected during 2009. By the way, World Health Organization data suggests that the participation of the gray market in drug trafficking in developed countries is about 1%, with an undeveloped up to 10%. The world market for counterfeit drugs will be worth $75 billion this year. Also, 62% of medicines bought online either don't meet the standards or it's fake. Falsified drugs can have serious consequences for human health. I'd like to say something about tracking the side effects of the medication. In order for a drug to be registered under our law, proof is necessary that it is in the country of production. This is practically done for reasons why we can't keep track of the vigillance effectively, so someone's experience is sought, but it can mean that if it is, for example. some drug registered in another country only three months can then be used in our country, and how to follow the unwanted facts or the vigile one is the question. If Serbia enters the EU tomorrow, it would practically mean that a drug from another Member State can be placed on the market first in Serbia, and there is a problem, as we all know well, the lack of development of a drug safety monitoring system. Otherwise, it is interesting that this legislative proposal reintroduces regional centres for pharmacovigilance, i.e. monitoring of undesirable effects of medicines. This solution existed until the very creation of the Medicines Agency, until when there were those institutions at clinical centres in Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, and it was central in Belgrade. Then they were abolished and the Agency was doing this job through the National Pharmacovigilance Centre. However, it has been shown that the quality and number of unwanted reactions is such that they cannot adequately monitor the safety of medicines, and also through the tweeting programmes it is concluded that regional centres are necessary. The question arises – was it then the wrong assessment of the Ministry of Health which suggested the abolition of regional centres, and now this job has to be done over and over again? It can be concluded that so far the Ministry has not given sufficient support to the agency in the pharmacovigilance promotion business. I would conclude that this is the method of registering generic medications that certainly does not guarantee that these drugs will be satisfactory in terms of efficiency and safety when they reach the patient. On this occasion, I would not comment on the poor quality of inadequate systematisation at the Medicines Agency, which was supposed to meet this legal solution and did not follow the suggestions of the profession. It seems to me that in this process, the top people of the agency took more care of politics and less of the profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38539	Seven minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. After that, a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38540	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I certainly belong to hard-core non-smokers. I've never used cigarettes and certainly I look forward to passing this law, but I'll try not to be personal when I talk about this law that has already been baptized among citizens as a smoking ban law, although it has a very nice name of the law on protecting the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. We like to see everything that gets us into something that we consider personal as a ban. Today we have heard, at the end of today, it may not be bad for us to recapitulate what we have heard today in the O.R. and what association with the MPs is this law, which was baptized as a smoking ban law. There were comparisons with the prohibition law, there were comparisons with the human rights of smokers and non-smokers. It was about those who were interested in groups and individuals. In addition to smokers and non-smokers, there were also talk of caterers as a very interested category for this law. Of course the caterers are interested in implementing this law. I express my personal dissatisfaction with one provision of this law that is not in line with European experiences and European practices, which implies an explicit ban on the use of cigarettes in all catering facilities in the Netherlands. I think that would be much better, but I'm going to vote for this bill, because I can't be unfair to people who enjoy using cigarettes. Some say non-smokers whine smokers. I'll just say that in Serbia, death factories sell 72 million pieces of cigarettes a day. No one who uses cigarettes has received an order, but has received cancer, coronary disease, arteriosclerosis and many other diseases. I haven't heard of anyone using cigarettes in the world that got some benefit or benefit from it, but I've heard of the ugly problems they're facing. Comparedly, the treatment of one person suffering from lung cancer costs the state of Serbia between 15,000 and 30,000 euros. The risk factor for lung cancer is primarily the use of cigarettes. Of course, there was a suggestion here that it wasn't a good provision that said that in this law we had to take care of the area used as a catering facility, and there were objections to talking about volume. Look at this room where we sit and imagine that this vault is lower than it is and remember the time when the congregation was built. At the time, MPs were able to consume cigarettes in this room. Imagine what that joke would look like today. Some will say, "What they lacked, they have welcomed certain years, they have passed quality laws. Maybe they didn't miss anything, but the non-smokers in that gym missed a lot. On the other hand, we had a debate in which one of the former ministers said the law was not good because first we had to solve the issue of air pollution, and only then we were dealing with the problem of this law and there were ugly criticisms at the expense of the law on his part, that the law was not good, that it should not be passed. He is also a non-smoker, but what we are now passing this law when we haven't solved much more important things, and that's the famous theory -- let's not do anything, we don't do anything, we don't dig, we don't sow, we just complain that nothing is right, and especially the laws and legal proposals that the ruling majority makes. I have another objection to the law. In criminal provisions, I'd like to ask you to find a way to correct that, no sanctions have been imposed on persons who remove the sign of a smoking ban. I think it should be the subject of criminal provisions in this law, because I will only remind myself that I saw when the Ministry of Health went into a campaign to prevent tobacco use – smoking shortens life. That's what one parole in a health institution says. One of our funny citizens wrote, "Smoking shorts a cigarette." Well, such a witty graphite and the removal of this sign also reduces the payload power, and increases the budget of the Republic of Serbia if it is adequately sanctioned. In the end, I have to say that smoking, drugs, alcoholism and obesity are major problems. Everyone is given the right to determine whether he wants to use cigarettes and commits a silent suicide or not. Everyone is given the right not to consume cigarettes and live healthy. When my late grandfather was asked why he didn't smoke, he said - I don't smoke, I want to die healthy. But in Serbia, most of the time, they think of us as crazy people whose madness doesn't match the madness of the majority. We have non-smokers in Serbia in a large minority, but they have the right to live a healthy life and that right does not require anyone to usurp them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38541	Six minutes and five seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a People's Messenger, Zoran Shami, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38542	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my distinguished colleague has mostly cited what I have been saying. I see he didn't understand anything from what I was saying, but frankly, I didn't expect it. I'm sorry, there's a beautiful song by Ljubivo Rsumovic, it's appropriate. He says, "Those who smoke too much, release their souls quickly, but that we are with it clearly, who don't smoke die the same. "
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38543	The word has a letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing two draft laws that are extremely important for the health of the population, the law on the protection of the population on exposure to tobacco smoke and the laws on medicines and medical means. Smoking tobacco was once called a bad habit in medicine, however, numerous scientific research has shown and proved the harmfulness of tobacco smoke to the health of the population. The health damage to tobacco smoke is reflected in the existence of more than 250 toxic substances containing tobacco smoke, of which at least 50 are carcinogenic. They cause a lot of illnesses and disorders, and the most affected are cardiovascular and respiratory system. Active introduction of tobacco smoke as a personal choice of individual is a conscious satisfaction, sometimes with coffee, sometimes because of anxiety, sometimes out of habit, these are the most common excuses, but it is essentially a kind of addiction that is due to it and the withdrawal of smoking, with easier or harder effort, a matter of discipline of will. That's right, evidence is a number of cases of sudden discontinuation of smoking and fear of close death in a heart attack, for example. On the other hand, passive smoking, i.e. Inhaling non-smoking tobacco smoke from the environment, according to international legal documents, is a threat to fundamental human rights, the right to life and freedom. According to statistics, in Serbia, exposure to tobacco smoke stemming from other people is very large, even half of the population is at risk at work and more than 60% are at home. The worst of all is that children in almost 80% of cases are exposed to their parents' tobacco smoke. There's no better situation in schools. When we have such devastating data, there is a question of how to protect from that vice of satisfaction that part of the population who is threatened with the right to health, the right to life? What a smoking passion we saw during Serbia's bombing by the NATO Pact, when, in addition to being exposed to NATO's lives to bombs, we waited in the long lines ahead of the trades to buy cigarettes. We now have a law on smoking bans in the workplace, sports events and other public gatherings that are still in place, which rarely respects and adheres to it. Given the smoking vanity and our tendency to individualize anti-discrimination laws, I hear smokers react daily in the sense that they are being discriminated against. As a society, we have to define ourselves for those civilization values that give a new quality of life when it comes to health, like when we define ourselves for a better job, a better new apartment, a car and the like. The meaning of such values should give this law. It states, among other things, that it wants to systematically regulate the protection of the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, as well as the total removal of tobacco smoke from space, given that there is no safe level of exposure to tobacco smoke. However, there are no effective measures or laws that can completely solve this problem, while there are those who talk about tobacco smoke harmfulness and smoke themselves, while selectively tolerate smoking in the workplace, while the tobacco industry is the most profitable, while tobacco products at the same time say that smoking kills. There's not a single product on the market that says that its consumption kills and that it's given a marketing license, except tobacco and tobacco processing. Changing and raising health awareness, as well as strict law enforcement and adequate criminal policy can give something about the required result, but the best result would give a complete ban on the production and transport of tobacco, which is, we are aware, utopia, because of the sale of tobacco products is filled with the state budget. Is the state ready to give up the budget for the transport of cigarettes for the sake of the health of its citizens? Of course not. I'm not going into the government's intentions on this law. I think they are good and I support them as a non-smoker, but I do not support this bill as a compromise with certain requirements, and in the second step that follows in 2011, the government will pass the law, as the Health Committee has told us by the people of the Ministry. The law will therefore, to the greatest extent, be inapplicable for a number of reasons. As a parliamentary group, we have submitted a number of amendments to improve this law to the extent possible. As for the second draft drug law and medical means, it is very extensive and as such could not be studied in detail during the time that MPs had at their disposal. The main objection to this law, and we heard it on the Health Committee from professional people, is that there was no public debate but only in the professional public. The Committee on Health and Family at a session on 29 March did not reach conclusions or decisions when discussing this law, as well as protecting the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, because the ruling majority's MPs left the session and thus showed what they think of this law and how important they are to them. Thus, before this debate, MPs remained deprived of the opinion of the committee of directors. The existing law has been completely amended with the excuse to bring it into line with directives and other EU regulations in the fields of medicines and medical resources. As a result, however, the whole law did not have to be amended, it could have been achieved by adopting sublegal acts. This is how any new EU directive will mean the adoption of a new law in this area. In the draft law dealings with the issue of authorisations for medicinal products, the issue of import and export licences for medicinal products and other transactions listed in Article 3 shall be carried out by the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices as Trusted Jobs and shall be subject to the law governing public agencies. Our view is that these jobs should not be done by the public but by the state agency, as a special administrative organisation within the state administration. One of the basic principles in the work of public agencies is that they are independent in a functional sense, so that neither the founder nor the service users can have a major impact on the decision-making of the agencies, but as far as inspection affairs are concerned, the Ministry does so, which, in our opinion, should not, but the administration body in the ministry. In Article 208, which refers to supervision in the field of medicines and medical resources, you say that the supervision is carried out by the ministry responsible for health affairs through a medical inspector. In accordance with our position, surveillance and inspection tasks should be carried out by the administration authority of the ministry, i.e. the State Medicines Agency. In this regard, we have also submitted an amendment, that the inspection is located at the Agency for Medicinal Products, which is why the Ministry and the Minister do not make decisions, but only informs them of decisions and solutions made. In the part of the bill that speaks of drug trafficking largely in Article 120, you say that a legal person authorised by the Ministry of Health can carry out the traffic of drugs on a large scale, etc. We also believe that the Ministry should pass a sublegal act that regulates this area. This is how the ministry, or minister, is given great authority because everything in traffic is controlled by the minister. That's why we think that health corruption is hiding in that segment. The Management Board and its competences are unclearly defined. It was left out of the draft law and supervisory committee. Transporting drugs is not their own purpose, but their application in patients is a major social interest. We are long aware that drug trafficking has become a major and lucrative business. Pharmaceutical houses are ready for anything to reach their goal, and that's a drug sale. There's a lot of money in the game, and the pharmaceutical lobby is very strong. For example, in some cases, when the traffic of a drug falls, to raise its sales, the upper limit parameters, such as fat in the blood, as it did in America, change. We've had cases of swine and bird flu. In both cases, when it comes to bird and swine flu, machinery and spray, pharmaceutical companies, certain experts, media -- to produce general panic and declare a pandemic. A clear question arises – is this where foreign pharmaceutical companies work? The answer to this question is self-inflicted. The cure is treated more like a slave than an asset in the interest of a patient. That's the connotation that gives me this law. The confirmations of this finding are visible daily in our offices, where doctors are forced, by the Republic Health Insurance Office, to prescribe certain medications to patients, regardless of what other medicinal products suit him perfectly. It's of course not in the interest of the patient, but it's in the interest of pharmaceutical companies. The professional public, who daily in their practice of happiness with issues related to the issue of medicinal products to patients, has serious objections to this law, starting with the fact that individual import drugs do not have any precryption in Serbian, and that pharmacies have turned into ordinary markets where they can literally buy everything from drugs, with rare exceptions. Inspectives on pharmacies are not done well enough, although it is not the subject of this law, but I consider the place of sale to be the subject of this law. The cure itself with an indivisible continent. From all the above mentioned in this law, it is concluded that it is a deliberate intention to pass through a large law of 232 members, which I do not dispute in his professional work, the dominant influence of the ministry, i.e. the minister, on complete work on medicines and medical resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38545	Ten minutes and five seconds have been used by the MP's group. The People's MP Janko Veselinović has the word, followed by the MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38546	The Honorable President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, firstly, to say that I will vote as MP of the DS for the Law on the Protection of Population against exposure to tobacco smoke. In 2009, 798 people died in car accidents in the Republic of Serbia, and about 16,000 people die in Serbia annually as a result of tobacco smoke, i.e. as a result of smoking. So 789 versus 16 grand. A small village disappears in traffic in Serbia annually, and a city the size of Alexinac, Velika Plana, Stara Paz, Trstenik, Šida, Negotina is affected by tobacco smoke. That's why I don't think Mr. Shami's recent shipment is at all relevant, because I assume that one of the families of the people who lost one of their loved ones to the effects of the tobacco smoke voted for the DSS in the meantime. Serbia's MUP says the new Transport Safety Act results, as fewer victims have been recorded in December, since the law came into force. After 40 days of application of the Transport Safety Act, the number of traffic accidents in Serbia is double lower, the number of injured by 39%, and the number of fatalities in accidents is one quarter lower. The penalties against unconscious drivers are rigorous and I think they should be. I wonder if we are in a position to reduce the number of deaths caused by tobacco smoke by 50% and to save at least eight thousand of our fellow citizens, relatives, neighbors every year – I hope so? It means that as traffic cops punish for speeding and inspectors punish for disrespecting the provisions of this law, which we hope to adopt. It's not a small social danger from tobacco smoke. Of course, the education that has been discussed here today is inevitable – media, school, everyone has to contribute, however, primarily to the state. I agree with my colleague Muchenski – Ministry, the inspections must take this law seriously. The provisions that, in my opinion, are part liberal still leave some transitional period, but the law is as it may have been, in some ways, now being passed and adopted, the fruit of many compromises. As it is when it is brought in, it must be respected and sanctioned by those who violate this law. Smokers draw in a quarter of tobacco smoke, while the other three quarters play around, often with non-smokers and non-smokers neither guilty nor debtors exposed to smoke. Someone is today, and I think the word is mentioned several times – the right measure in the relationship between smokers and non-smokers, agreement, agreement. I'm just not sure there's a deal or deal. After all, we said that this agreement could have been, this law wouldn't even be necessary. In a closed room, smokers and non - smokers cannot exist without leaving the consequences for non - smokers. So in that sense, the deal simply can't be. I call on non-smokers to take care of their health and when the law is passed and when it comes into force – protect their rights in all possible ways through inspections, through their superiors who are obliged to take care of the application of this law. Today, I had a particularly indicative discussion of fellow MEPs in my profession, who publicly defended the need for this law to be further liberalised. I can't get over it. He even said he was meeting with people who were brought to pathology, and we know what kind of people arrive at pathology, and that he watched how the lungs of people who smoke, and yet he firmly defended the idea – that this law should be further liberalized, made some compromises, etc. That kind of discussion and that kind of compromise I don't understand. There's this thing that's certainly a problem, which is the fact that smoking is an addiction and that people who somehow need to compromise with people who can't control their own ability to stop smoking, are hard to come by. We said that smoking disease in the world killed about four million people. It is assumed that by 2020 10 million people will die annually from tobacco smoke. The worst is the fact that the largest part, 70% are assumed by those 10 million dead, will be from underdeveloped countries, as is Serbia. The fact is, even more alarmingly, that we are in the infamous second, or first, behind Turkey by the total number of smokers, and when it comes to women smokers, we are the first in Europe. Of course, smoking is associated with rising trends in broncha lung cancer, oral cavity, oesophageal, stomach, heart disease, blood vessels, strokes. I'm deliberately repeating this, today it's said several times, we don't have the opportunity, we don't have the space to talk about these things in such an open way. What is particularly disturbing is the fact that tobacco smoke is enjoyed by every fourth founder and every second or third student, depending on the research that has been done, is data. It is worrying, of course, that more and more young smokers are among them, so special attention should be given to them. Smoking according to research done by English researchers in doctoral studies, and this research was done on a 50-year sample, so 50-year research is the longest research ever done in one of the fields of science, one of the longest research, shortens life by about 20 years. That means smoke is, of course, a mass murderer. A particular problem with us is the fact that, and this is repeatedly pointed out, about 37% of smokers' doctors and this law in that sense should resolve some of the questions that doctors cannot smoke in the place where they do their job, and these are hospitals, health homes, etc. It is worrying about the data, and in some ways it is a criticism of both the ministry and all inspection bodies, which last year in health homes because of the non-compliance with the law on smoking in closed areas has been charged a total of 60 mandates. I spoke to a colleague today, he says that so many mandates in his home of health could be charged in one day. So, 60 fines per year in health care homes has been charged. In our country, 44 people die daily as a result of smoking. A number of surveys show that there has been a decrease in the number of addicts in Serbia by about 6%, as a consequence of probably the ministry's efforts and all relevant institutions, education and campaigns carried out in recent years. We don't have enough data on the effects of tobacco smoke. That's why I'm going to once again use data from the British National Health Organization, which says that more than five billion pounds, that's $7.94, almost $8 billion a year, Britain invests in treatment and all the consequences of tobacco smoke. Of course, there are no indirect consequences. So the calculation shows that compared to 1991 research, when the cost of smoking for British health was estimated at 1.4 billion, several times increased the percentage of investment in suppression and in some way the treatment of addiction disease and all the consequences of smoking with it. As regards European practice, the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control has been mentioned several times today, which has created the possibility of harmonising European countries' legislation with this Framework Convention, one of the most important provisions that this Convention has in itself is a complete ban on smoking in closed public places. We know that almost 80% of EU countries have implemented a smoking ban, one way or another. So over 80% of the countries and in some ways for the next two to three years, that ban will probably be implemented in all EU member states, and probably also countries that are candidates or en route to join the EU. Of course, this led to a significant reduction in tobacco consumption, which did not result in a collapse of hospitality, with which many here today, in some ways, have been solidarityd and taken care of catering facilities. Say me, and probably a good part of non-smoking, we don't go into catering facilities because of tobacco smoke. I'd be very happy if I could come in and have coffee or lunch at one of the restaurants where there'd be no tobacco smoke. Interesting research among Belgrade students, Mr Krasic is likely to find this interesting, when it comes to the law on smoking bans in closed rooms, because 33.5% of students believe that the existing smoking ban law is fully implemented. All other students feel that the existing law does not apply. About 48% of academics claim that the law is broken and that it is equally violated by students and employees of higher education institutions. The law banning smoking in closed rooms supports 80% of Belgrade University students, and against it is only 17.8% of students, who are probably more aggressive in showing their desire to smoke in a closed area. What's particularly interesting is that out of the total number of non-smoking students, only 4% don't consider themselves victims of passive smoking. So only 4% of students who are non-smoking at Belgrade University do not consider themselves victims of passive smoking. So most of them consider themselves victims, but probably most of them have no way of fighting and no longer being a victim of smoking. Of course, it's particularly worrying that among Belgrade university students there are the largest number of girls who smoke and they will be mothers today, they will be exposed to their baby's tobacco smoke and that will naturally have bad consequences. Just a few more data when it comes to the consequences of the tobacco smoke that the British study is showing again. In people who smoke 25 or more cigarettes a day, the risk of lung cancer is 50 times, not 50%, but 50 times higher than non-smoking. Smoking is associated with mortality from other diseases, first of all heart attack and chronic obstruction of lung disease. Half the smokers die from a smoking disease, while 1/4 smokers die in the middle years of life. Smokers have an average 10 years shorter century, a total of 10 years shorter lifespan than non-smokers. During the 50 years observed, as long as the study lasted, six million of U.K.'s observed inhabitants died of tobacco. The exposure to tobacco smoke increases, the study showed, and the impotence in men, while women may be born with lower body weight and premature birth. Positive results have also been shown for people who have stopped smoking in the meantime. Thus, smoking discontinuation can have a equally dramatic but positive effect, so that people who stop smoking for up to 30 years have no practical consequence and the mortality was the same as those who did not smoke. In smokers who stopped smoking only in the 1960s, the average life span was at least three years longer than those who remained smokers. Not to mention how much smoking reflects on jobs, on the quality of work, on the quality of life itself, just to say that smokers use more than non-smokers on average for two days, for example in Germany, and a number of other data relating to smokers and not worth non-smokers. Why is this law necessary in the end? First of all, it will protect non-smokers, their health, the quality of the environment and reduce, if consistently applied, the diseases caused by tobacco smoke and reduce fatal outcomes. This will reflect on the health of people, children and youth, will reduce the number of illnesses, increase productivity in the economy, reduce, which is not irrelevant, the conflict in smoking jobs, if this law is consistently applied, and if non-smokers do not have to take matters into their own hands, that they are fighting smokers, if the law is consistently applied, and it will create a better atmosphere at work. In the end, I hope that the National Assembly will be a good example, first of all, to adopt this law by a great majority. I hope that this assembly will soon be the ashtrays from the tables in the parliamentary clubs, restaurants, etc. put in a safe deposit box. There isn't a Mr. Odalovic here to be made public in some way. I'd like Mrs. Chomićka and I to be complicit in that safe, if I could make a little joke. The Assembly must also be an example to all local self-governments and local authorities, which means institutions whose founders, means homes of health, hospitals, etc. In voting day, as MP of the DS, I will vote for this law and I hope this is only the first step in a complete ban on smoking in public space.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38547	19 minutes and 10 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Zoran Ostojić, after him, has the People's Messenger, Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38548	Dear Vice Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, these topics are important today on the agenda, but not more important than the local home water polo game that goes to the Public Service. A fellow Lazic earlier noted that it was a little strange that only a few MPs today spoke about the drug law and medical means, all others about the smoking law. Let's say, when there's no transmission, we say something about history, it'll stay in the record and someone will read. There are two laws that have two lobbies behind them. The tobacco lobby wants the softest smoking law, and the pharmaceutical lobby wants a drug law like this. From this fact that little anyone has been involved in the drug law, you can easily conclude which of those two lobbies is stronger. Remember, for example, in Kostunica's first government, the defence minister who said his life was threatened by the pharmaceutical mob. Remember a former defence minister who died in the assassination, the same thing was said about drugs, and it was only about defence ministers who controlled drugs only in military health institutions. Remember Leposava Milicevic, who was driving by an armored vehicle in the late 1990s. I don't think it was a whim, I think it was really her need. There's a lot of money in this business, and it's obvious that someone might want this law to go under the guise of this smoking ban that's distracting everyone. That's why I'm going to make my contribution to the discussion of the drug law. We have yet another one in a series of bad health care laws proposed by the health minister in all governments since 2002. This series of bad laws, I mean the Health Security Act, the Health Insurance Act adopted in December 2005 and the disastrous Public Health Act adopted last year, which inherited the health system practically preserved and made even more inconsistencies and mistier than it was. And if that's the case with those laws, what could we expect from this drug law? First, a few principle debates. The proposal explains that this law is adopted in order to comply with directives and other EU regulations in the fields of medicines and medical means, etc. These reasons are not alone, nor are they primary, but they are not controversial. It is not disputed that we need laws in line with European norms and directives to ensure the efficiency, quality of medicines, the safety of medicines, medical and veterinary products. It's nothing to argue with. The LDP stands for it. We are also in favour of European laws, but those which are, by their essence and the quality of the solutions proposed to them, not just by the name, form or desire of the promoter. Unfortunately, the proposed text of the law neither conceptally nor essentially achieves the declared nor other objectives that should be achieved through the adoption of the law, which ultimately comes down to ensuring effective, quality and safe medicines as products of particular importance for human health protection. After all, it is the basic and initial intensity of all the directives and EU rules you are referring to. If we are already calling for this need to comply with EU rules, then we should know that this harmonisation implies both the need for the essential and conceptual separation of different areas, and you are trying to regulate all of this by this hybrid law. In the EU, all of this is separate. And what areas are these? The scope of medicinal products for human use, medical or medical medicinal products and veterinary medicinal products, i.e. veterinary medicinal products. This, in practice, means that really comprehensive and transparent compliance with EU rules could only happen if three different laws were passed: medicines, medical medicines and veterinary medicines. This also means that we need a law in the field of medical equipment and the area of apothecary, i.e. the traffic of drugs on a small scale. Mr Minister, you cannot tell the difference between medicines and medicinal products, on the one hand, and the difference between medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products, on the other hand, that you will eliminate by, for example, Article 198 of the proposed law, which applies otherwise to medicinal products, saying, "If Articles 193 to 198 are not otherwise specified, the marketing of medical means shall be subject to the provisions of this drug traffic law accordingly". Nor will you say in Article 23 concerning veterinary medicinal product: "Veterinary medicinal product is a medicinal product within the meaning of Article 14, Article 16(4) and Articles 18 to 22 of this Act." With these formulations, just enter additional confusion and attempt unsuccessfully to connect grandmothers and frogs. All of us similar countries, which are already in the EU or will enter quickly, have passed special laws here in these areas. What's a shame to learn from others? Why didn't we do it? I claim that this will come on the agenda very soon, and probably you, since I have heard that a bill is being proposed for a life-long health minister, will now propose three different laws as we suggest. Six years ago in the National Assembly, you proposed a similar law, that's the one that's now in force at the moment. He was the same drug and medical law. You then called for the need to comply with European regulations. Now certainly, if it had not been in line with European regulations, because if the previous law had been in line six years ago, he would have suffered only minor changes, because these six years nothing so dramaticly happened in the EU and regulation, but at that time he was not in line, not even now, is not the most because of what was put into one law. This is a pre-glazed, pre-normised, content and concept non-consistent, essentially re-conformed law with EU regulations. You added 70 more members than the previous law, this one has 161 and this one has 232. When you look at it, it doesn't make any difference, you add your own regulations, regulations to the law that you've passed during the course of this law. Basically, there is no difference, or you tell us what are the important differences and the newspapers you have proposed in the new law. What is the paper due to compliance with the amended EU rules in the period since the adoption of the previous law so far? And then today and today, you forgot to say what the point is and the purpose of passing this law. As far as we know, the drug law should create conditions for the provision of effective, quality and safe medicines, as a product of special importance for human health protection, and this can be achieved if the legislation regulates the procedures for testing and placing on the market, production, marking, classification, transport, advertising, information, surveillance and verification of their quality. The way you suggested it wouldn't work. The proposed law, just like the previous one, is so conceived that it puts first the drug licenses and the drug agency. The fact that your previous law called in fact a law on a drug agency. It does not put into the first plan rules, conditions and procedures in the overall process of developing a drug, its production and conditions for placing on the market, covering different stages, starting with non-clinical, clinical and other studies, etc. Here's the argument. In the first article of the proposed law, in the chapter of the basic provision, you first say that this law regulates the conditions and procedure of granting a marketing authorisation, i.e. the registration of medicinal products in the registers managed by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, and only then stands the production and transport of medicinal products and medical means and supervision in these areas, as if this law were adopted only because of the authorisation and some kind of drug agency, as some god-given administrator that we have established only to administer in this procedure the issue of medicinal products, and not as an independent professional regulatory body that will carry out the prescribed tasks set out in it as jurisdiction. The question then needs to be asked - why would this independent regulatory body that we already set up in this law not in the prescribed procedure under the prescribed rules and conditions issue permits or better said approvals for the production and transport of medicinal products and not just for the placing on the market? Why is that part of the job still in your jurisdiction, or the ministry? Isn't that a kind of duplication and interference of jurisdiction? If the competent ministry is already authorised to prescribe rules, conditions and procedures, why is it that the Agency is not empowered not to issue appropriate approvals under these rules, conditions and procedures for both production and transport of large and small medicinal products, and that the ministry is self-monitoring? Another member of the proposed law, which should define the meaning of the terms used in this law, which, by the way, is incomplete and illogical, because it does not define these terms in terms of importance, in logical order, nor in general, as the first term, and most importantly, defines the authorisation for placing drugs on the market as a document issued by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. I guess it's logical that the law that claims to be a drug law, as it is called, should come from drugs and their definitions and species and other terms that refer to drugs. Already after the first general chapter, the basic provisions that I have already explained to them what is focused, it is again as in the previous law in the whole chapter dedicated to the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, as if this law were starting with the Agency. If that law called the agency law, we can call this agency law and licenses. Therefore, if you want our support in the adoption of these important European laws, we suggest that you remove the proposed law from the agenda, prepare three specific transparent laws for each area – medicines, medical means and veterinary medicines, veterinary medicines. The Law on Medicinal Products, which, in addition to medicines for human use, would regulate both homeopathic products and matters under the responsibility of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, is in line with the directives and regulations of the EU for this area, and that you propose a law on veterinary medicinal products, i.e. medicinal products, or medicines, to be agreed with EU directives. To formulate the proposed law by providing ageing of the basic objectives in ensuring effective, safe and quality medicines, human and veterinary medicinal products that are important for health care. From what I've said, it's clear that the LDP parliamentary group will not support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38549	Thirteen minutes have been used by the MPs' group. The People's Messenger Paja Momcilov has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38550	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, perhaps by coincidence, and perhaps not quite random circumstances, we are having a debate that the citizens of Serbia cannot see. They'll see her in the early morning, those who can hold out. What's interesting? It's an interesting phenomenon that it's already repeated not for the first time when we're discussing a set of laws from the health sphere. All right, how's it going? In the morning, I talked mostly about the smoking ban law, but because of my esteemed colleagues from the parliamentary benches who also talked a lot about this law, especially because of younger colleagues who are wondering – why did you work against this law, when we essentially think the same attitudes in some way, the same dilemmas. For the simple reason that the current law, if you took it into your hands and read it, which has a dozen members, which is written in Serbian clear language, is better than this. There's no room without a ceiling. There are no moving doors and other nebuloses that you'll find here. I said this law is inconsistencies. If you take just Article 3, I'll keep on it on purpose. It says – smoking is prohibited in any closed workplace and public space under conditions prescribed by law. Then in the same article in the fourth position, he says, except for the attitude of this, the employer can set a place for the smoker in a closed space, and then list where it could not be. There are 12 items listed. If you flatten those items with the items contained in the current law in Article 1, you will see that it is more comprehensive, it also prohibits smoking in elevators. What's the problem? The problem is, esteemed colleagues, that executives didn't do their job, didn't exercise control. Two inspections under this law were supposed to work – the Ministry of Health and on the other side of the Ministry of Labour. They didn't work, you said it yourself. Now you think that when we introduce more inspection services, they are communal inspectors who will be in charge and when we introduce in collectives and enterprises so-called. The snitches or capoes, who now need to work out of some enthusiasm, believe me, questionable quality will be the motives of these people who will do so and accept it without compensation and without description in their business to do so. You're creating a galaxy that won't bring results. Mr. Ilic touched her, not understanding the morning, the essence of the problem. The best-quality medicine is preventive, and the people know the truth when it says: Better to prevent it than to heal it. He tried to talk about it, though, not understood. If the executive government wanted to fight tobacco, they'd raise the excise. Why is hell the cheapest place here? Why is it five times more expensive in England and other countries of Europe to which you seek? Protected by a tobacco lobby. Why? It is known that they are in strong contact with politicians and that they finance both political parties and individuals. If you really wanted to implement the Convention, you would have reduced production, and to that you owe it to the Framework Convention, and to the production of tobacco and cigars in this country. I've given you clear data, watch the balance of payments, we've only got losses due to the maintenance of the industry and the deficit of payments. I told you, he's 45 million dollars every year. America and developed countries are suing health care, the Ministry of Health, businesses and factories and seeking compensation for the great money they have spent on the treatment of citizens of their countries. It's a fight I'd like to welcome to the Serbian radicals. That's why we don't want to vote for this law, and that's perfectly clear. It's interesting how many of these other drug laws. You see, she said the former president of the World Health Organization, which I mentioned, I don't know why the minister was baptized when I said that she was fighting tobacco and its use, and that that's why she resented the lobby, the one that produces these products and has big profits. She said that drugs are not only public good and something that is a committee for individuals and society, but is of great social importance a thing and one essential feature of medicine is that, as a doctor, when I prescribe medicine and when my patient receives this medicine, we are unable to assess whether this medicine will be quality, whether it will be effective, whether it will be safe. That's the problem. What's the problem with medication? The problem is that no single drug is completely safe and it's just a matter of the amount of dose you're going to take, so you might have side effects. Aspirin, you can buy it all, you want to drink it against your headache, but if you have an ulcer and an ulcer, you can bleed, you can also suffer. That's one banal example. What are the drugs causing? Toxic effects, but the worst they can do is kill a patient. If a woman is pregnant and takes a certain medication, an anomalous child can be born. When it happened to us gynecologists in the '60s, until then, since World War II, everyone believed that drug production was good for the citizens. However, when we saw that drugs and how they could have consequences, then the need for regulation came. Since then, the world has hit stricter regulations for drug manufacturers. What happened out there in the '60s? You've had 70 medications a year. You've had 30 new medications in 10 years, and today you barely have 10 new drugs to sign up for a year. It takes 10 years for all rigorous studies to be conducted, as required, to get one medicine. What's the problem with our society? The problem with our society is that it will not look at the executive power, and I am sorry that this Parliament will not either, that the biological integrity of our citizens is at stake. We're disappearing from this space. Mr. Minister gives us some information and a problem that these data cannot agree with what we have as our own data, and we use exclusively state resources. World Health Organization what we're about to see. He says we have a lot of general mortality. Look, a thousand citizens of our country die 14 of us every year. Eight per thousand citizens die all over the world. If you're looking at the world's most underdeveloped countries, it's 13. What's the problem? We've got a lot of general mortality. Let's leave the white plague, which gives us a little bit of birth, but why do we have a great general mortality? Because of chronic non-infectious diseases. Which one? Cardiovascular, malignant. Says Mr. Minister - we're down. We didn't cut anything. Batut's annual report, he's issuing annual reports and watch what he says. From 2002 to 2007, there was an increase in the overall mortality rate in Serbia by 1.6%, which was conditioned by more frequent deaths than leading non-infectious diseases. He says that during that period we have an increase in deaths from diabetes, malignant tumors. At the same time, there was an increase in the death rate of circulatory diseases by 3%, not to mention mortality. That's what Batut says, and Mr. Secretary says it's been reduced. I believe there's a man with fresher data. I went to the site, took the same data from Batut in 2008. More Serbian citizens died than cardiovascular diseases. You can take my word for it, you don't have to. This is our problem and it is extremely important for Serbia to get safe, quality medicines. The way things look, if you start looking at newspaper reports, what does the press say about us? The electronic media seems to be controlled pretty well. But in our press you can find, if you try, and a lot of interesting data. For example, in a semimedical magazine, you have a summation of a meeting held at the Medicines Agency last year, where World Health Organization expert Mary Cooper said – every year in Europe is paid for the compensation of $148 billion. Whoever's in Serbia out of patients, on a drug market like this, and we're going to tell him what kind of drugs we have here, Mr. Secretary, he's glad we have an anathoxin vaccine, water or some other one, which I'm going to show him about, which he said we had fake drugs. That's really funny. The Americans, at the same meeting, Stan Olson of the Upsala Centre for the Monitoring of Unsolicited Reactions said that from the toxic effects of drugs between 4% and 6% of patients treated die. It's a reality. Roland Maybum at the same meeting in Upsala also told us that in Africa 200,000 people die annually from malaria because of the use of counterfeit drugs. That is why regulation is important, and it is important that the drug agency is properly formed. The Belgrade Economic Institute has research conducted by Ljiljana Pejic-Stokic. She points out that drugs are sold without a prescription, which seriously disrupts citizens' health and wonders what it is? Is that business or negligence? He's giving another interesting piece of information. He says this - the answer should be sought in the area of regulations governing the price policy of medicines and criteria for establishing a positive list of medicines. These acts, very arbitrary and unprofessionally written, directly protect interests, primarily domestic producers, and thus all other participants in the chain of sales. Written in this way, they do not protect the interests of Serbian citizens, and the effects on the health of the population tell us about the number of people who are sick and dead. The same author notes that they are U2007. Serbia's citizens spend 271m euros from their self-medication pocket, and 231m euros were allocated from the prescription fund that year. Citizens of Serbia, this is the system you enjoy. You pay far more from your medicine pocket than the prescription was prescribed and given. When the press in charge of the inspection asked why they allow the issue of prescription-free drugs, which is a very dangerous thing? The answer was – in a medical inspection, the pharmacist may sell or issue any prescription medicine exclusively with a prescription or doctor’s report and with a stamp. It says -- their inspectors visit the pharmacy occasionally, but since there are only 15 of them, and the office and pharmacy alone in Belgrade has about 2,500 -- is it Europe, whether these are standards, two and a half thousand pharmacies in Belgrade -- they find it difficult to visit everything at least once a year. The minister says this way, in the second statement, be careful, it's very interesting, what he says about the same problem. The delusion is that the problem would solve a larger number of inspectors. This hook, he says -- we can't, 2,500 pharmacies in Belgrade, not once a year, his inspector. Now I don't know who's telling the truth. It says so – the problem solves Good manufacturing practice, Good big trade and Good retail practice. Let's not go any further. If we look at the headlines, "Politics" is a serious list. He says this - smuggled drugs still in the drugstores. That's what the minister used to say here when he said "Bloody" about this "Prazzle," where instead the cure was "C vitamin." Of course, he was also talking about the tetanus serum, where the water was. Who noticed the ampoule had water? Nurse. If it hadn't been for intelligent, smart, experienced sisters; no, the inspection system would never have. Whether it's intentional or not, it's a question. We'll get to the point why it's important. What's also a serious problem, we have today's medicalization as a special problem. When agencies, these powerful pharmaceuticals, were forced to place new drugs at great cost, they moved to another point, to healthier people. So they began to lower the criteria and declare both healthy, maltene, people potentially sick and to offer them medicines. As much as you can find drugs in the pharmacy that you can buy and you know best if you go into any pharmacy. What's very interesting and what I have to point out, when it comes to this law, they've made it clear what they're interested in. In the morning I read from their explanation, they are interested in agreeing with EU directives, and they are interested in drug trafficking. What did they do to us? Already in the 2004 law, they did something that was anti-European, anti-civilisation, no serious state, and the country gave the public agency the authority to give our drug agency. There's this agency everywhere within the government, within the administration. And if you start with the mother of all Food and Drug Administration agencies, we don't want to talk about her, who has 10,000 employees and not say what kind of network of institutions and institutions, she says nicely, she's part of the administration. If you're looking at England, she founded her agency relatively late in 2003 by uniting two agencies. There are examples that the agency also deals with drugs and that it deals with medical resources. They've united two and they say it this way - the body of the government. What's with the agency? No, the Ministry took the inspection. Something came out of the inspection and to this agency. What did she do that was inadmissible? It threw her into the free market to get her money and make her own money. He says this way, if you look at our law on medicines and agencies, which we Serbian radicals advocate, there can't be an inspection in the ministry like this, with 15 members, nine of whom care about drugs, because incompetent is extremely, incompetent, that's not said by Paja Momchilov, that's what a study here for two years has been doing, a tweeting project, a French drug agency and our drug agency. The sixth working hours were done, a million and a half euros spent to tell the truth about us. I'll read to you that you know what's true. The plan was made, here it is, by 2010, what should be done and said – it should be strengthened by the agency. It is appropriate for our country to have up to 215 professional people. What did the Ministry and the executive power do? Right after the Twinning project replaced the director, brought in a man incompetent to the chairman of the board of directors, who replaces the prominent pharmacist, former director and fires 70 people, and now you have 150 people at the agency, instead of 215 as much as you should, and you talk – you will have safe medicines. This inspection, which is now in the ministry, can't do the job. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is, what's behind this? If it's just ignorantness. So there's no agency like that in Europe. The agency is also on the market, it is, it is charging its services, but it is also within the body of the administration and it can be. We're told by fairy tales. Watch how our law sees the agency. Our law says so – a public agency is established if development, professional and regulatory affairs do not require permanent and direct political supervision and if the public agency can do better and more effectively... If the drugs don't require constant surveillance, I don't know what it takes. So, according to the legal provision in Article 2, the public agency has not been identified and seen doing this responsible and complex job. What are we up to, and we're up for it? If you want to go to Europe, give the European agency here, within the administration, don't throw it into the market to make a living alone. From who? To question the drugs to foreign companies. I'd have a lot to talk about, my friends from the Parliament bench will talk too, but two things I have to tell you or three. First, we absolutely believe that there is room, in Article 1. The Law on State Administration, which stands in the second position – the state administration is made up of ministries, administration bodies as part of the ministry and special organisation, in the following text: the authorities of the state administration. So this agency is a professional body and then you won't have what you have in this ridiculous law, that the minister determines whether or not a qualified pharmacist is testing drugs. Imagine how far they've gone. They've got a pharmaceutical chamber. The minister determines whether to license the pharmacists. What does this look like? This is really a failure of the system. It's nowhere, it's nowhere. I don't know what the answers will be. I'm just expecting to know what's going to happen to us. So, the agency as a top expert body, in principle as it is said here, is clearly stated here, when the debate is in particular we will read to you what the French and the agency have said, and about the situation with us, and how we will have it. The agency should be a European agency, as well as all other European agencies, not the minister. Clearly, it's all in the service of the pharmaceutical lobby, interest and profit, profit, nothing else. They didn't honor you in this text to say in one word the quality of medicine, the safety of medicine, the cheap cure, no. But what did they do? The control of each batch of import drugs will no longer be valid, they release everything now, and every year 10 drugs minimum will be discovered from abroad that incorrect drugs are in our agency. So now he'll be able to get anything here you want. In the discussion in detail, we will talk more closely. This is extremely harmful for Serbian citizens. I don't know, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to all your goodwill, how you'll be able to raise your hand for something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38551	23 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. The moment MP Pai Momchilov spoke, it was 41, so it was used 23 to know the last two speakers. The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Nemanja Sarovic, and he is the last registered speaker. It's available for 18 minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38552	It may be easy to conclude from today’s debate that this second law regarding tobacco smoke curtains is to make as little noise as possible to the first person to deal with these pharmaceuticals. No one can argue that the pharmaceutical mafia is one of the stronger, more significant. No one can argue that you need medication, but the fog is fog. When it rises, then something comes to the surface, you see. I would remind you, for the past 12 years, that a number of officials and ministers have disappeared from the globe because they were in some kind of conflict with the pharmaceutical mafia. These two agenda points have only one touch point, and that's the addiction problem. In all things, a man must be moderate, and when he eats, and when he drinks pills, and when he drinks alcohol. Simple, moderate life should lead, which is a guarantee of health and longevity. 80 years ago, people ate about the same way they did today, so they had no problem with triglycerides and cholesterol. They were wasting themselves. They were working. It's a sweat date. Today it's staring at TVs and Internets. They eat the same as their ancestors. They don't have anything to spend, where to spend, and then they have to take the drugs and help out pretty much those who create that kind of addiction. I heard everything and everything today. By applying the mathematics of an MP, I will not be angry with Mr Shami after admitting that he has been smoking for 47 years, he has taken his own life for nine and a half years. Some finance ministers rub their hands and say for ten years it has reduced life and reduced costs. It can work that way. He can introduce himself like that. Let's be aware of one fact. No one here advertises anything that's vice. There's a measure to be found. You don't have to put everything in the same basket. After all, all the regulations that applied to, if I may say so, the ban on the use of cigarettes were in the function of protecting the environment and working atmosphere for those people who don't consume. By some logic of the matter, if my office is allowed to smoke in violation is the one who entered my office and is not a smoker, because he brought himself into an awkward situation. I'm a bit of a cartoon. Of course, I don't advertise smoking. It is a dangerous vice. Yes, it causes addiction. I can't put him in some other vices, by my own consequences. I heard these doctors today who didn't want to talk about the drug law, but about smoking, they brought so much stuff out that I could stick it to every pack of cigarettes. They'd be much better afraid of smokers than these messages that exist today on a pack of cigarettes. There's a measure to be found. There is no connection to Europe by prescribing that kind of ban that you are seeking, without us being able to meet it. Let's go first in some order with European standards. Business, these guys don't guarantee a job. They're firing everything in order. Let's guarantee a healthy environment. Mr. Milosavljevic is on the territory of Rakovica, where I live, there works a plant for the production of asphalt. He's poisoning everything in order. Why don't you turn that off? Why don't you close it? He's such a bit of a strange man, Minister of Life. Something needs to change. Mr. Paja Momchilov told you that since you were elected Minister of Health, the percentages have increased tremendously, negatively, according to Serbia's health. Statistically, she said. That's not what Pai Momchilov said. He's just read what the Batut Institute wrote and I'm a bit of a cartoonist. I don't advertise smoking. I call on everyone to get rid of it, who can. Find some measure. You can write whatever you want. You were just talking about the new Traffic Safety Act. He doesn't apply. He exists, so he scares people. Why? The one who made the crash got hurt. He lost his license. In other segments, the police aren't ready to apply it. Are our passengers ready to apply that law? No, but fear protects the grapes. If so, he's given at least some effect. Some lives have been saved. That's what we support. We don't advertise smoking, but find some measure, and stop that exaggeration. In the morning, they're good smokers when they finance the mafia and the state, and when they move away from the trade to light a cigarette, they're not European guys. Find some measure, people. Who best finances both the mafia and the state? Smokers. Does anyone ask them if they want to finance? Nobody. They're going on their own free will. Why aren't we talking about drug addiction? No, that's desirable. It's not desirable either. Let's advertise something that's moderation and some decent life, and find a measure for everyone. There's no greater insult to a smoker when he goes abroad to some airport that puts him in that pod and comes out like a herring. There's no greater shame and shame, but don't salt over it a little more. Find some measure. Is it possible that there won't be any room in the National Assembly where we could go smokers, Mrs. Hope, Mrs. Gordana, my dear and I to light a cigarette? We're not poisoning anyone. Radinovic, don't go in that room. We'll charge you a fine and please make sure when you leave your cigarettes. Nikola Novakovic left and changed character. Tomica Milosavljevic changed character and he smoked two or three packs once. They're the worst. Ex-smokers. I'm just kidding. You don't want to be offended about this. I can end it the next way. Look at me, I'm a real vice site. I want to drink, burn, eat nice, but I'm trying to be moderate. I try to be moderate in everything. Let's talk about it, and it's very hard when I hear some smokers talking so loudly here two hours ago like they've never seen a cigarette in their life. I don't want to mention them. They were ashamed in the hallway when they met me. Let's find some measure and finally pass some laws that we can apply. Imagine the data, 30 percent of doctors smoke. According to that logic you just demonstrated, they should all be fired. It can't be like that or what Gordana says - they drink bensendine. How dare they take their medications when they're being treated? I'm calling first of all young people, I've been joking a little bit, to make them realize that tobacco smoke is harmful. You need to get away from him, and we who are hopeless cases like terrible smokers, have a little compassion and give us a corner.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38553	It's been used for eight minutes and 25 seconds. There are nine minutes and 30 seconds left. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and he is the last registered speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38554	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must first of all note that it is a common practice of yours that, in the interpretation of the bill, you are calling for some European practice and European laws, to say that this is another step closer to Eurointegration, that this time it has gone quite well. However, you have called for the 2007 World Health Organisation's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control and the 2007 Strategy on the Control of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia tobacco, but I think it is clear to all those who have read this law and who have followed the debate that this law is nowhere near the quality level of the law applicable in EU countries and in some of our neighbouring countries. One of the strongest arguments of your law was that the state was annually incasing excise duties on tobacco products somewhere around six billion dinars, and it was obviously a crucial factor in the adoption of this law and the basic reason why you failed to gain the strength and courage to engage more strongly in the fight against tobacco smoke and diseases that it caused. The best indicator of the quality of this law is certainly Mrs. Komic's presentation, which at the end of the presentation invited Minister Tomica Milosavljevic to read the law carefully. I think it would be a good commitment if he had read it much earlier, but it would have been a good thing if the other representatives of the ruling coalition, who made a large number of very serious objections to this law, had read the law, because it's completely absurd that you are here today criticising the law, and that in the end in a day or two or three, when it's on the agenda, all of you all agree to hold hands and press the button that you're going to vote this law. The real question here is what did you want to achieve with this law? Did you want to reduce the number of smokers, which, in my opinion, should have been a legislator's intensity, and did you want to raise the level of public health in Serbia or was, in fact, your only intention also an obligation to fulfill some form and obligation to your bosses from the European Union, while at the same time doing so that you do not object to any of the interested groups, so neither smokers nor non-smokers nor owners of catering facilities? What is clear is that the adoption of similar laws in both the EU and the countries in the environment has been accompanied by serious public debates, and serious protests, primarily by the owners of catering facilities, and those who visit them. That is not the case in Serbia and the question is why is that? I think it's because this law won't make any radical changes, but those legal solutions that existed in the previous law are taking over, with some, I'd say, cosmetic changes. Every serious debate requires, above all, a serious analysis of the law that has so far been in place. We heard from one ruling coalition representative that in the previous year in all Serbia, in all health homes, only 60 criminal penalties were charged. I think it's a disastrous data and a crown proof that this law is absolutely not implemented in practice, and I will remind you that the criminal provisions of this previous law are largely similar to the criminal provisions of the law you propose, first of all in the part that usually interests citizens, it's a fine of 5,000 dinars for disregarding the ban on smoking. I must especially point out that this law is legally scandalous, that the provisions are incorrect and that they allow the self-will of those who apply it, which means that by voting for this law, you will make a system basis for corruption and for the unequal conduct of state bodies in identical cases. In particular, it is an interesting provision of Article 3 which states that a special room intended exclusively for smokers must meet the conditions laid down in Articles 6(3) to 9. This wouldn't be a problem if article 6 had nine views, but only seven. Then the question arises – how will you apply something that does not exist? Articles 5, 6 and 7 are also very bad and show that the state essentially favours those owners of the venues that are decided or that their facilities are fully used for smoking or that they opt for that variant to be more than 50% for non-smokers. How else do you explain that owners of catering facilities less than 80 square meters can opt for their facility to be exclusively for smoking and that in this case the only legal obligation for them to place a label on the object door is that it is a smoking object. You have not made it any easier to predict, which is a practice in developed countries, it can be tax and various other kinds of reliefs, for those owners of the catering facilities that they want and who choose, at the cost of being left without a guest, for their facilities to be at least half or half or for non-smokers only. What's interesting is that if you have an object larger than 80 meters square, there are two exceptions, two possible exceptions to the smoking ban. I'm going to start with article 6 that says a special room can be designated for smoking purposes only, and then to those people, I guess that excludes the obligation to set 50% of the rest of the room for non-smokings, but then impose a number of restrictions on those owners, so you say there must be a special ventilation system in that room, and even an extremely inappropriate provision that has no place in the law, perhaps in some sublegal act, but not in the law, so it says that in front of the entrance to the smoking room in the room itself, it must be ensured that in the event of a fault of the ventilation system, the label "prohibited smoking due to damage to the ventilation system". Well, this is completely pointless. This is getting into a small intestine, and I don't know where you found a machine like that. What is an essential question – why are there two ventilation systems of the code that prohibit smoking and a special room that is exclusively for smoking? If the owner of the facility decides to split the object into two parts, you only prescribe the obligation to write on tables, bars, etc., on half of the object this is for smoking, and on the other half it is not for smoking, then there is no obligation to create a double ventilation system, and everyone knows that tobacco smoke is something that can't be stuck on the table or at the bar and that the laws of physics require that this air is mixed from one part of the room. Another of the great nonsense you've written is about catering facilities, where you say you're prescribing an exception, and you're actually starting with the rules, and then you say that the exception is going to exist, that's the fourth point, if the room has a ceiling. According to the regulations and records of the Ministry of Health, how many rooms exist in hotels and hostels that have no ceiling and what kind of rooms are these? The last position, the 6th position in this article, says that the responsible person in the catering facility has the right to decide that smoking is prohibited in all rooms. Gentlemen, this is pointless. You, the third member of this law, generally prescribed a smoking ban everywhere, and then you prescribe exceptions to that rule by Articles 5, 6, 7 and 8, and you say – it can be extremely determined that smoking can be allowed in certain rooms, under certain conditions. It's pointless to say that someone can decide to ban it everywhere, it's already forbidden. If it meets certain conditions, then it can be allowed. When we talk about smoking control, the responsible person can transfer his obligation to another person or more persons to exercise control of the smoking ban, but the question is whether the responsible person is free of responsibility. In the position of Article 12, you say that the person responsible is obliged to hold one or more employees in writing, this applies to public transport, to each of the vehicles of public transport, to exercise control of the smoking ban in his name and for his account. When we talk about public urban transport, do you think it's realistic that it's private, any city traffic company determines anyone other than the driver to carry out that control. You say one person or more. Do you think someone's gonna hire three people to ride a bus all day and control whether someone smokes, but it's even more pointless... (President: National MP, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used. I'm finishing up, Mrs. Comic. It's completely pointless, but it's even more pointless when it comes to attitude four, about passenger vehicles. Do you think it's possible for any employer to have more people in a passenger vehicle, which has four or five seats, to control whether they're going to smoke. Of course, time is extremely short. Mrs. Comic, thank you. We will also have opportunities in the course of discussions in particular to make a very large number of objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38555	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the conclusion of the joint principled search, I ask if the President, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right to be a member of the Word, has a MP, Nikola Krpic, and then a National MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38556	I would like to say one more word about passive smoking, since I don't think some of them are clear about what a passive smoker does, although the average cigarette burns for 12 minutes, the smoker only uses a small part of the time directly, in fact only a small part of the smoke that makes cigarettes inhale the smoker. Most of the smoke is sprayed in the surrounding air and breathed in by others. Smoke that fluctuates around smokers contains more than 60 carcinogenics. Air pollution caused by smoking, home vents don't remove it, they just spray it around. One study in America revealed that non-smokers who were married to smokers had cancer of all kinds 60% more than non-smokers, who were not in such a marriage. The children of smokers have two to four frequent worsening of existing respiratory diseases. It has also been observed that sudden child death syndrome prevails in households, where smokes. The direct impact of smoking on young people’s health is manifested by certain signs such as coughing, decrease in breathing depth, constant appearance of mucus in bronchials, more frequent colds, and the like. When smoking becomes a habit, it also acts harmfully on the cardiovascular system. It is said that smoking stimulates obesity, more food consumption, insufficient movement, high levels of fat in the blood, especially cholesterol. As a result, smokers are singled out in a special category of adolescents, with a significantly higher risk factor for cardiovascular disease later on. In recent times, symptoms suggestive of intolerance among young people, such as eye irritation, rhinitis, headache, morning coughing, etc. The effects of tobacco in the field of restlessness, hypertension, tremors, gastrointestinal disorders, ulceration in the stomach and some socio-psychological relationships of individuals to the middle should not be ignored. Not taking at all, there's almost no organ that doesn't seem negative. If this adds psychosocial consequences, then it is very difficult to explain, which is why special young people, despite learning about the harmful effect, are starting to smoke, and even more so the old ones want to do the same and do not give up smoking. For these reasons, I will personally vote in favour of this law, and all MPs from the United Pensioners Party will vote, Mr. Minister, on this law. He's great.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38557	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38558	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, after today's discussion that my first remark – that these two laws should have been held in separate debates. Unfortunately, this is about a very important drug law, which was only said, if my record is correct, four MPs: the MPs of DSS Mr Dimitrijevic and Lazic, Mr Momcilov and Mr Ostojić. I have the impression, although I don't understand myself too much in that area, that this law allowed and actually required a much more serious debate that we unfortunately failed to carry out today. As far as the law of... Not to read the title of the law now... It's not about smoking bans. It's about... You could call that law "ma'am" some other names, but politeness tells me not to say it. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] So, when it comes to that law, I have to admit that I also had a certain surprise today. Of course we, except for the authorities and the opposition, share here as people: some are smokers and some are non-smokers. I expected non-smokers to be intolerant, not by themselves, but in principle I expected it. Turns out the opposite - here the smokers of all the squads stressed the need to pass the law and that the law must respect the human rights of all, or the rights of non-smokers to be protected from tobacco smoke and the rights of smokers to smoke there, to allow them to smoke in a certain space, where they will not endanger anyone. I went one step further and pointed out the rights of some, and later it was turned into caterers, not just caterers, but people who have, i.e. whose job is based on a number of people gathering with them and that they are interested in making that number as many people as possible. That's not controversial. At one point, however, the minister read in which EU countries smoking is totally prohibited. In a much larger number of countries a law has been passed, which our law might look like, if it's fixed, but that's what we'll discuss when we discuss in particular. So I think, that is, what amazes me, I say, is that the non-smoking people have just shown a high degree of intolerance, although the largest number of them are former smokers, and the people qualify that as a famous wing – that those who are later baptized are more Catholics than the Pope. I can't explain it to you all the way. In view of the president's interest, if she had a good will, she could explain it well. We have before us a debate in detail. I said it was the law, and I didn't want to talk too much about it today, but we'll talk about it when there's a debate in particular, but I'm drawing attention to Mr. Secretary to read the amendments. The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted 25 amendments to this first law and about a dozen amendments to the latter. I think we have submitted the amendments with the sole intention of correcting the law and bringing it into those frameworks that we talked about today in principle. It is my pleasure that not only the representatives of the opposition but also the representatives of the ruling parties have said so, so that we can make one applicable law, which will take care of the rights and human rights of all. That way we can do a useful job. I agree, someone here said, a few MPs said this wasn't a law that could make some strict political differences. This is a law that we should all just be interested in being the way it's supposed to be. Any exaggeration in any sense is extremely harmful and makes a surrogate of the law, which cannot be applied afterwards or is not adequately applied. In the end, I have two notes, and Mr Krasic is gone. Unfortunately, he does not stand well with mathematics, according to the parameters brought here by my fellow doctors, whose expertise I doubt too much – I have not lost nine and a half years of life, but it seems to me that I have calculated 14 years and seven months, so to speak, you have a dead man in front of you, this is just my spirit. Secondly, I owe an apology to Mr. Veselinović, who is my witty song, i.e. the sendable song of Rsumovic, who apparently offended his, apparently, exceptional sense of humor, so I apologize to him. [[Laughter in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38559	The word has a minister. All I'm asking is for you to sign into the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38560	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of this day, I would like to thank you as Minister of Health for today's debate, which has shown that it is possible to discuss serious matters in the Serbian Parliament at the level of responsibility as must be a member of the executive government and representatives of the People's Will, MPs in the Assembly. When discussing issues that are important and which have so much public importance, they deserve not only to be given time and not only to say things that you deeply think, human, political, professionally, but deserve to be discussed with dignity, which is not going to fall below the level of a dignified debate on serious matters. This is about serious things and let me finally keep your attention on what I think is necessary. There were discussions and questions concerning individual examples, sometimes vague incident situations. There is clear and precise procedure for Members' questions. I have never allowed the Minister of Health or the Ministry of Health to answer the question of MPs in the way and in the time that it is intended, so I will ask all MPs who have a specific question to ask as a question and will get an answer. All the witnesses were that when there was a special meeting on questions, I was coming, I was available to answer orally, I was directly at that session, so I didn't get a single question at that time, and when I got a written document showing what the MP was asking me, we answered. So now I'd like to talk about what is the core of today's debate, which is these two laws on medicines and medical means and the law on the protection of the population from the harmful effects of tobacco smoke. It was in the discussion, for example. Among other things, the right of patients. It is well known that in 2005, when the Health Protection Act was adopted, 15 members of the law defined the area of protection of patients' rights, in the same year as the European Charter on the Protection of Patients' Rights was adopted. So it is completely irrelevant whether there will be a special law that will be called or will essentially be found in system law, so we will implement it together. Some of the issues have shown that some who have asked have a very good experience in managing health institutions, from managing a wider context of institutions throughout the whole. The big city, so they have a direct experience from the practice of protectors of patients' rights and they need to know and they need to know that it's a hard job, that's a difficult job, that we've started, we've soiled the field, we've sown, and now we're going to see together how it grows and how we're going to change. But if we deny it at the beginning with a single dose of cynicism that isn't suitable for that area, then we act destructively, which is not good. Newspapers really have no intention of commenting. What the papers can write today is clearer to you than to me. It was in one discussion of claims – tobacco smoke is not the biggest risk. Yeah, it's the biggest risk. The most significant adverse individual disease factor that can be prevented is tobacco smoke. Whether it's done little or much, it's going to give its court and citizens, every day they do, and probably each of us has experience from a medical facility, either personally, or through one of our closest, and has experience back 10, 15 or 20 years. You talked about some because there were words, for example, about the registration of medicines and about some suspicious deaths associated with such or such an interest. So two studies were done between 2000 and 2006. So it's been misquoted since 2000, so so far, 10 years, so it's below 1%. A reduction in the number of active smokers in Serbia between 2000 and 2006, when two serious researches were done using the same methodology, is slightly higher than 1% annually. All the serious people who know it better than I do say it's a great result, especially for the environment in which smoking tobacco has always been culturally acceptable and tolerated. We believe that if by 2015 we continue at this rate all together to control the tobacco, that it will be good. Slovenia has done this job like this for 10 years. In the 11th year, she recorded fewer lung cancer patients. For 20 years, the U.S. has been working like this, and 21 years have reported that it is no longer lung cancer but colon cancer in the first place. So this is hard work, long-term. You don't see a lot of walking results, and this is the staff. Therefore, someone will carry this bat further. Why is this law now that there is already one law called the smoking ban law, and why just 60 mandates? Just because the law that is now in force is practically decapitated, it's impossible to implement it, so that when you clearly have a violation of the law, you charge the fine, because it's so defined that a man has to hold a cigarette on fire at the time, to draw smoke, and then he broke the law. Then, the inspection procedure is such that only one part of the inspection service in the Serbian state is authorised and is virtually impossible to carry out effectively. This law hides two mechanisms that need to help make it more efficient. One is -- there is not a single inspection in the country in the state of Serbia that will not be responsible for implementing this law. Educational for schools, health care institutions, market etc. Number two - director for the institution is a responsible person. He can transfer power to one or more. What does that mean? It means that I, as Minister of Health, can transfer power to all employees of the Ministry of Health, so that everyone is responsible. That means one way to be more effective in punishing when the law breaks. Can anything be solved by repression? Never in mankind's history could, can it never happen if you don't achieve a critical mass of will and a critical mass of positive consciousness. Today's debate has shown that we are close to a critical mass of positive awareness of this problem. No matter how different we are, for example. Today you learned a lesson from a young MP of an opposition party, which I will use to propose a 2011 budget and propose to the Ministry of Finance to make it easier for that place to stop tobacco by not having an obligation, but deciding to throw out tobacco smoke. This is an example of constructive opposition thinking and action. There was talk of a drug law. The drug law is so important, at the same time systemically and very highly sophisticated and professionally defined, that probably none of us know enough to talk about it in a documented manner, unless there's a professional attitude of the pharmaceutical profession. I can tell you that since 2004, when the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices was brought to Serbia, it was no longer possible for someone, for example, to bring the cure and get a solution by banging a stamp in a cabinet. Unfortunately, it was decades ago, so it happened that when you took over documentation from the federal office and the federal health secretary for the drug registration, that the documentation was one pile of unordered paper, which you can't even get into for 15 days while you're at it. Ask one of the advisors probably for this discussion, because I see you asked the former director of the agency and the current one, did Minister Milosavljevic ever turn the phone to the director of the agency and say anything about the cure? Of course not, because the law has delegated the professional business of registration, control, quality and vigilance based institution. I totally accept that it's possible to define it one way or another. In some discussions, inconsistency, intransparency was mentioned, the essence and quality were discussed, the separation of the area, and then the law on a lifelong health minister was also mentioned and used a dose of cynicism, which even became likable to me. Sometimes I think, with so many criticisms that I don't see much arguments about, I could do this until I retire. Of course, I'm kidding. Certainly, when someone in continuity is doing a public job that is not easy, I would never have accepted it if I hadn't been invited in 2002 directly by Zoran Djindjic to do something good for my profession and for my people and never repented. Many of the people who now debated critical gods voted in 2004 for the law and voted in 2005 for other system laws and even participated in their adoption. Many who are now in the ruling coalition know that their health minister was coming to the parliamentary club when they were opposition, so he respected them, so he explained to them why it is important to pass system laws that are beyond political will. That's what makes this job meaningful and that I still have the strength and will, and personally and as a ministry, to push the regulation that needs to be made better for all of us. So, will one law define drugs or will be special for veterinary, special to human beings, it's a matter of choice and convention. We have decided to be one, because we have previously considered with veterinarians that many veterinary medicines have a direct implications for human health, because you eat food that was obtained from animals that were taking medicines. It's good to have everything at a high standard and out of those several hundred veterinary medicines and over three thousand human medicines that quality, standard, rules are the same. I allow, of course, the possibility of being three, but if one opposition party says we're not voting because it's three, it's not three but one. Well, you don't have to if that's the measure of your responsibility. The people will bring judgment on whether it's so important to you, one or three, or whether it's very important for you to play the role of the opposition at this point, no matter how destructive. Sixty members of the law refer to medical means, 58 refers to licensing, 35 to clinical trials, 77 to production, if we already speak in figures. But it's completely irrelevant. The pharmaceutical chamber, pharmaceutical associations, is behind this proposal, the institutions of profession. In Serbia, I don't see what other institution is that can tell us that this is a completely wrong path and that we have to go back. A few words about the inspection. If you ask me, the pharmaceutical inspection should be with the agency. Is that possible in Serbia? No, because there's a State Administration Act that keeps inspection affairs in the state administration. The Ministry of Health considered comparatively all possibilities and even changed the systematisation by a new and formed a specific sector for the inspectorate in which health inspection, sanitary, pharmaceutical, opiate inspections would be jointly. Preparing for a moment when, as part of the reform of the state administration, the Republic of Serbia will define the service of inspectorates as one body, the inspection should operate in procedures, without discretionary decision-making, according to pre-planned questionnaires, by checklists, there is, there is, there is no, and that it makes conclusions that are completely out of discretionary decision. And at one point, at the moment of state administration reform, there will certainly come a moment when this part of the drug business will be moved to the agency. The agency was not formed by this law, several MPs did not understand well, it was formed by the past law of 2004, it began to work on a good track of earlier excellent results from the Department of Pharmacy. It brings together a significant number, I think, the best pharmaceutical profession in Serbia. We had great support at the beginning of the EU to establish an agency that should serve all of us honors, because the shoulder is side-by-side with European agencies that are much older, people are starting to come and from us to learn some things in procedures, not just neighbours from the region, but also countries that are already members of the EU. My deep belief is that this law on medicines and medical means will represent what the profession asked us to do, what is on the drug market inescapability, that medicines that don't go to the recipe will once be left on the free market and that their price will be freely formed, that they will wipe out the illogicalness and that we will insist on checking every series that no one else is doing. You have to understand that in the philosophy of drug production, the greatest responsibility is to whoever produces it. Do you think someone who makes a cure for millions of people has an interest in tricking someone? Of course it doesn't, but it has to have an interest and you have to force it into regulations, international and national, to do it the best it can, to be standardised, to look like other countries, to make it easier to recognize and then, of course, you control it. Is there a lot of five counterfeits in these last four years? It's small, but before that, they were never discovered. Some debaters sat in the government as ministers, in a government that had not had any counterfeits discovered, which stamped on registration, which did not care much about procedures. Allow me, this is an important step. Finally, since I promised no longer than 15 minutes, what is the best message for me today – Serbia has a national alliance against tobacco smoke, regardless of political differences. Someone here, Kobajagi accidentally said that Minister Milosavljevic smoked two packs and stopped. It's such an interesting setting someone up with great political experience. I'm an amateur politician, I'm a gastroenterologist, a professor of internal medicine at the University of Belgrade Medical School, I've never smoked. Once I'm not in this position, if you ever have a stomach problem, you'll find me at the Clinical Centre of Serbia. Thank you for your constructiveness and congratulations to the citizens for having a Assembly that is able to discuss tobacco smoke as if with a hundred years of tradition of normal parliamentary debate, not just with ten.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-08-0.u38561	I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Population against exposure to tobacco smoke and the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. This is what we do for today and we continue tomorrow, on Friday, April 9, 2010, at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
