ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47033	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. Please determine the exact quorum with the cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 92 MPs in the hall, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47034	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Sarovic, however, is not Saric, but fine. So on 7 October this year, the SRS filed criminal charges against the president of the Zemun municipality, Branislav Prosperna. If you could just calm the ruling majority down a little bit. So we filed criminal charges against the president of the municipality of Zemun Branislav Prostran and against former SRS councilman Steve Zivanovic. They tried to buy, literally, like in the cattle market, some other committees to manage to hold the ruling majority in the Zemun municipality and unlike the previous cases when we were sure it was a trade mandate and we had no evidence, this time we have concrete evidence, i.e. we have audio footage and a stenogram of the whole conversation, i.e. the purchase of the board. On October 7th, we filed a criminal complaint with the prosecution, submitted the stenogram and audio-record and requested urgent action, believing it to be a major test for the prosecution and expecting that those involved in political prostitution in Serbia, who encourage others to do this political prostitution, I think, above all, at the SNS, will finally be prosecuted in accordance with the law. It's been, like, a month and a half since then. We still don't have any results and we're asking today, today I demand a notice, is anything done on the basis of that criminal report? Have any tests been conducted? Is Branislav Spacious heard? Has Steve Zivanovic been heard? Does the Criminal Code and all other laws, which apply to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, also apply to SNS officials? What they offered, I'll read the part, so the public can get a glimpse of it. A member of the SRS, who did not agree to this, was offered employment for him in the municipality of Voždovac, where the SNS is in power. A job has been offered for his sister in the municipality of Zemun, where SNS is also in power. He was also offered various other material compensations, which, according to them, amount to 100,000 euros. They say that now some new projects are being launched in Zemun, including aqua-park, six construction sites, totalling 47 million dinars. They say if they cross from the SNS Group tomorrow and they say there's going to be some kind of director, they'll get a salary of 100-120 thousand dinars, guaranteed. The guarantee of this deal was Tomislav Nikolic. The second guarantee was Branislav Spacious, president of the Zemun municipality. I think it's about time he responded to this. I'm asking the Department of Justice and the Minister of Police for an answer, has anything been done about this? The second thing, July 6th 2010, SRS, or Verica Radeta, Elena Bozejan and I filed a criminal report against Tomislav Nikolic, because he made a false claim in the daily newspaper "Alo" that Vojislav Seselj tried to order another man's murder, but that, my God, Tomislav Nikolic refused to execute it as a high moralist. It's been a few months. I repeat, it's July. That's more than four months. We want to get an answer, did the D.A.'s office do anything about it? Has Tomislav Nikolic been heard? Criminal charges have also been filed against Aleksandar Vucic, Milos Simovic, Miodrag Rasic and Dzimir Chabril, and have they been heard? You know that this lie they gave, first of all, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic caused a huge public disturbance. For days, headlines reported that Vojislav Seselj ordered someone's murder, as Tomislav Nikolic allegedly threatened, police and BIA are conducting an investigation into it. This was all exposed by the Vojislav Seselj family, but also by all of us from the SRS, one real media link. Of course, four months later, with great delay, we were informed by the prosecution that there was no indication, that there was no even reasonable doubt that Vojislav Seselj was ordering any murder. That, of course, did not take place on the front pages, unlike the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47035	Mr. Sharovich, time. National MP Ivan Andric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47036	May I have your attention, it's a very serious question. On behalf of the LDP, I have to respond to a scandal that happened last night again, for who knows which time, at the RTS public service, when former US Ambassador William Montgomery, today's SNS sympathiser, and suspected businessman. I must say that it was an inadmissible attempt by William Montgomery to directly endanger the institutions of this country, falsely accusing innocent people, and, in our opinion, directly attempt to prevent the investigation and conduct of the political process in the wake of the murder of Zoran Djindjic and the criminal charges filed by the Djindjic family lawyer, which is related to the support of the Belgrade Special Operations Unit's rebellion in 2001. It doesn't matter here, William Montgomery. It's an important context in which it happens. This visit and his disputation of a court ruling only takes place a day or two after a special prosecutor announced that a preliminary investigation would be initiated in the matter of the Special Operations Unit's rebellion. It takes place several weeks or months after the first time since the murder of the prime minister of justice in Serbia are available members of the Zemun Clan, the Simovic brothers, who gave the Special Prosecutor's Office statements that shed a new light on the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic and as a third, as a direct cause probably for this visit, and the motives for his appearance and speak of the application of the Djindjic family's lawyer, Srdje Popovic, a criminal report that was filed, if I am not mistaken, during last week. The former ambassador's appearance is an attack on all Serbian institutions because in the interview that took place yesterday, through numerous lies, an unlawful attack on a final court ruling brought by the Special Court, which the senior courts in Serbia several times confirmed in the second and third stages. So we have a few questions. The first question is for the justice minister, the police minister and the special prosecutor. As long as it's come with an investigation that needs to determine all the elements of the so-called investigation. Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's political background? Are the criminal charges filed on behalf of the Zoran Djindjic family being considered? Are the state authorities seriously working to investigate the statements given by Aleksandar and Milos Simovic, who, among other things, talk about contacts between criminal circles in Serbia and the region with diplomats, including William Montgomery, but also about many other contacts of the Zemun Clan that can shed light on the political background of this assassination? William Montgomery is no respected diplomat. He's an American ambassador who's been replaced for a bad job, and the reason for his shift was a sexual scandal. Today he lives in Serbia. Our question is – what is the occasion and what is its motive to talk about it? He's here, by his own admission, to do business. When we look at who his business associates are, we can find a motive for this kind of talk. On the one hand, he sits on the lap of Vojislav Kostunica, and on the other side, Mira Markovic. His business partners are on the one hand Gradimir Nalic. Here I have a copy of the Agency for Business Registers, a company called Strakon Security, the owners are 15% William Montgomery, 15% Lin Montgomery and 62% Gradimir Nalic. It's the wing of Vojislav Kostunica. Krilo Mira Markovic is an MSM & Associates company that also owns Lin Montgomery 34%, William Montgomery's wife, and Goran Matic, the famous Information Minister, 33%. In this, we recognize his personal motive to engage in this, as well as the fear of an investigation conducted by the Special Prosecutor's Office. What hurts especially and as a member of the RTS programming board, I request that the RRA's programming board hold an emergency session. It's an inadmissible way that interview was done last night. Not a single question, not a single thing that would ask for an additional explanation and an opening of space for many lies that challenge what the institutions of this country have been doing. It's not possible for that gentleman to do it in his own country. I don't think that's possible. I think it is the duty of the Serbian parliament to do everything possible to make such a thing impossible in this country. What is Alexander Tijanic's motive for opening a space to challenge the political background investigation? (President: Time. I'll just have two more sentences, it's very important. We'll also ask the US Embassy for an explanation, since it's a former diplomat. I ask for an explanation from the government of Serbia, from the President of the Republic, and we also assure you that no lies by this suspected entrepreneur will convince us not to insist in our country to reveal the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47037	This is Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer the question to the prime minister and the minister of economics and regional development of Serbia, in order for the citizens, above all, to receive an adequate answer to one important question. What has the government done so far and what does it do about bilateral relations in solving the problem of Serbian property in the Republic of Croatia and vice versa? In Sombor, we faced a serious economic problem in the case of Boreli, whose locals are sold very suspiciously, very problematicly throughout Serbia. People are left out of work and the government has done nothing to protect these people from this kind of privatisation and enable them to preserve jobs, and it is a business entity that is working and making real income. They're on strike, trying to solve this issue with the Ministry of Economy. So far, they have no adequate response, no adequate protection. We see that bilateral relations between the two former republics of the SFRY, and now the two neighbouring countries, have become normalised, but this issue is not resolved or Serbia is very passive on this issue, unlike Croatia. Let's say, specifically in Somboro, when a company from 250 jobs opened, which we certainly welcome, the whole political summit came to take a picture. Everyone said hello. At the same time, the whole political summit did not go to another company, where 750 people remain unemployed, thanks to this kind of concern the government is showing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47039	Since no one is answering anymore, in accordance with Article 286, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Zoran Kasalovic, Djordje Milicevic, Dejan Radenkovic and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Infrastructure, I have also called for the sittings to attend: Dejan Lasica and Rada Tomaševic, Assistant Minister of Infrastructure Demir Hadzic, Head of the Traffic Security Department and Dejan Tomic, Railway Traffic Inspector. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE SUBPORT OF THE DANCY TREAT (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Nikola Savic, Dejan Mirović, Milan Avramović, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Popović, Milorad Krstin, Radiša Ilic, Sreto Perić, Zoran Krasic, Goran Mihajlović, Vitomir Plužarević, Mirko Munjic and Dusan Marić, as well as the Government. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, as well as the report of the Transport and Connection Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Maric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47040	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment that regulates that the provision of this law applies only to the transport of a dangerous burden carried out by the Serbian Army or the police of Serbia. In an explanation of the government's rejection of the amendments, the amendment is rejected because it is contrary to the commitments made by the Republic of Serbia under special agreements with other countries and international organisations. The only obligations that the Republic of Serbia has on this basis are obligations towards the NATO Pact, a military alliance that has kept part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia under occupation for 11 years. These commitments were made in July 2005, when the then dossow government, in a series of anti-state moves it made after 5 October 2000, signed an agreement with NATO that agreed that this international terrorist organisation was using without any restrictions on the territory of the Republic of Serbia – for the transport of people, techniques, military and war material. I hope I don't have to explain that military war material is mostly a dangerous burden, from ammunition, from military, transporting weapons and tools, to the most dangerous cargo, it's soldiers. Under the agreement, NATO troops in Serbia have immunity from arrests, they can literally do whatever they want when they cross the territory of the Republic of Serbia. They can peopleally say that they are burning and burning, they can kill, they can rape, they cannot respond to the justice system of the Republic of Serbia under the July 2000-2005 agreement. This means that NATO troops and NATO pacts through Serbia can carry on unlimited transport of all kinds of dangerous burdens. I don't think a deal like this would be signed by any free, sovereign, internationally recognised state. I remind you that 70 years ago, Serbia refused to implement an agreement signed by the then government in Belgrade, I remind Serbia seemed to have signed an accession agreement in 1941 on the Troika Pact. The pact was envisioned, and this was the most controversial provision of the Troika Pact, that Serbia's territory could be used uninterrupted by the German troops to transfer funds and people from Europe through the territory of the Republic of Serbia to Greece and the Middle East. The people of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the people of Belgrade, did not accept these humiliating conditions, and a few days later there was a state coup in Belgrade. The question arises as to why the NATO Pact deserves the privilege of transporting whatever it wants, whenever it wants and what it wants. You gave permission to carry a dangerous burden across the territory of the Republic of Serbia without any control of it, someone who has proven himself to be an expert on the uncontrollable use of dangerous cargo. I remind you that ten years ago, NATO's pact on the Republic of Serbia, Serbian cities and villages was drained by 20,000 tons of the most dangerous cargo of aircraft bombs and missiles, which destroyed tens of Serbian cities and villages, killed about three thousand and wounded more than 15,000 people. Five years before that, NATO had exhausted tens of thousands of tons of dangerous cargo on Republika Srpska. I remind myself that it has been found and proven that in a deadly burden that has been hit by Serb settlements, Serbian hospitals, kindergartens, schools, and impoverished uranium, so that generations of Serb children will die over the next thousand years because of this uncontrollable and illegal use of a dangerous burden by the NATO pact. I remind you that it has been found that in this dangerous burden, these grenades and bombs, along with the impoverished uranium on several occasions, there has been much more toxic plutonium. I will only remind myself of some consequences of the illegal use of a dangerous burden by the NATO Pact, three hundred destroyed schools and bridges in Serbia, ten destroyed cities, the destroyed Serbian industry, several destroyed hospitals and kindergartens, 73 killed children, dozens of dead Albanian civilians on the run for KIM killed, destroyed buildings and killed RTS workers, bombed civilians on the market, in Paracino, on a bridge in Varvarin. Once again, I ask the question that is the merits of the NATO Pact, whether it is a three-month bombing of Serbia or ten years of occupation of the Republic of Serbia. Whether it was three thousand civilians and Serb soldiers killed at the time of the bombing or two thousand Serb civilians killed at KIM since the beginning of the occupation, when security in KIM allegedly guaranteed NATO a pact. With all these facts in mind, all the crimes the NATO Pact has committed against Serbia and the Serbian people, I believe there is no reasonable reason why the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not accept this amendment to the SRS. It may happen that if, tomorrow, a NATO pact without any control, perhaps at the moment when we hold this session, through Belgrade, carries a dangerous burden with poor uranium or plutonium, i.e. with that burden again killing some Serbian children. The SRS believes, and this is an indisputable fact, and it does not need to prove to anyone that NATO is an occupation pact in Serbia, that it should not be allowed to cross RS territory, let alone carrying a dangerous burden on its roads.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47041	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Mrkonjic, a technical error is foreseen that this amendment is provided for in Article 2, however, it is on Article 1(2). I had no intention of bearing guarantees for the compensation of any damages and incidents when it came to an agreement that was long ago adopted. We are aware of the fact that this cannot be changed, but due to a technical error this amendment applies to Article 1(2). I ask that the provisions of this law which are not applied, the classification of what, be put on one preamble, which is that - transporting a dangerous burden to which this is not applied, namely this law, which is carried out by the vehicles of the defence ministry, the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia, as well as the military forces of other states and organisations using the transport infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia under a special agreement. Here I suggest adding a sentence "with the guaranteed compensation for the damage caused by possible incidents". Of course, this would only apply to this part of Article 2(2) if you would accept my colleague Dusan Maric's amendment, which has made it clear to everyone that there should be no other military forces of other countries using our infrastructure under a special agreement. So, if we have called for some obligations such as the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Freight on Internal Waterways, it does not say anywhere that there are special agreements, as stated in this bill, but international agreements signed by several member states. Since I have brought this agreement here, to read to you just a few things that deny the response to this amendment by the government's representative and the reason why it is not accepted, that this agreement relating to the transport of a dangerous burden of ADN was adopted in 2000, and that this SOF agreement, which was spoken of by my colleague Dusan Maric, was signed long later in 2005, by a diplomatic conference held in Geneva on 26 May 2005, under the auspices of the European Commission for Europe and the Central Commission for the Navigation of Paradise, together developed this agreement. The agreement itself and the regulations in annexes in the original version, which form an integral part of the agreement as the final act of the conference and the resolution adopted by the conference, were published in 2001 under the label, not to read the label. The final act was signed on 26 May 2005 by accredited representatives of the following five countries – Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovakia and Switzerland. So, Serbia was not in this agreement then, we later signed a special agreement with NATO, as counterpart Maric said, signed a famous SOF agreement, allowing the military machinery to operate on our infrastructure, according to Serbia, whatever it wants, without permission, registration, consent, even responsibility. What is also important is that those who want to join this agreement must do it the following way. The provisions in annexes contain provisions on hazardous substances and articles, provisions on their transport and packaging or, in the form of scattered cargo, by vessels in water transport or by tankers, as well as provisions on the construction and operation of such ships. These provisions also cover requirements and procedures for technical examinations, certification and approval issues, recognition of classification societies, supervision, training and examinations for professionals. Also, rules in annexes in its original version should be applied 12 months after the agreement enters into force. So, since 2000, 12 months has been a year since 2001. However, in the light of the delay in entry into force, which is due to the ratification and accession process, the resolution adopted by the conference requires that the rules in annexes be updated regularly at the joint set of experts before the entry into force of the agreement. This is the most important thing right now. The resolution recommends that countries interested in becoming signatories to this agreement regularly implement these updated versions at national level, not waiting for the agreement to enter into force. So, Mr. Minister, in order to put this, as they like to say, into our system and our law, we must put these special agreements aside and give priority to the international agreements to which Article 2 and this law calls. Here, Article 2 states that the transport of dangerous cargo is carried out in accordance with the provisions of confirmed international agreements, not specific ones. Then this ADR is also listed, and all other agreements that we have accepted, such as the Agreement of Uniform Conditions of Approval and the mutual recognition of type-approval. Therefore, following the entry into force of the agreement, the latest version of the rules in annexes will be adopted to the Administrative Committee, otherwise Article 17, in order to ensure that the rules in annexes, which are to be applied 12 months after the entry into force of the agreement, are updated. We can't be updated with these special agreements. You know for a fact that we are witnesses of numerous harariums, nuclear and chemical accidents related to military transport and the use of harmful and dangerous substances, and that the biggest causes, 85% of the statistics conducted by the Serbian police, are precisely the causes of which are caused not only by human beings, but also by the infrastructure that we possess, or bad roads, by the driver, by the lack of security of these vehicles moving through our infrastructure and illegal passing through our country, more specifically, not by the Ministry which has not approved an escort for the same. So I ask you, Mr. Mrkonjic, that this technical error, which says that I have submitted an amendment to Article 2, realize that this is an amendment to Article 1, to realize that security cannot only exist in Article 8, if someone has an insurance policy, but also this security by respecting international contracts and not specific ones, as well as in Article 45, which you have provided for the withdrawal of the certification of anyone who makes a car accident, and the driver is a transport vehicle carrying dangerous materials. So, in this particular contract, you won't be able to confiscate any NATO vehicle, you won't be able to control it, you won't be able to give them an advisor, you won't be able to control the entrance and exit through the country and you won't be able to bring them in responsibility for that car they made, and you know very well what they've done, so there's no responsibility. In order to preserve the role of your ministry and the integrity of the Serbian state, you must put this SOFA agreement aside, give priority to an international agreement, such as this agreement I have read, as referred to in Article 2, and give priority to infrastructure and control from the ministry itself. In case it doesn't happen, it'll be the other way around, the Ministry of SOFA will control the NATO Pact, and then we'll pass the law here for some others, not us. So I ask you to accept both my amendment and my amendment to your colleague, Dusan Maric, to resolve these dilemmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47043	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47044	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, in the context of the law on the transport of dangerous cargo, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 of the proposed law, asking for a new position to be added after Article 1, which provides that in the event that the damage that occurred in the transport of dangerous cargo cannot be compensated in some other way, it may be compensated by the property of the participants in the transport which caused the damage. Mr. Minister, you said, about a few days ago, defending this bill that the aim of the same is to actually achieve a preventive action in the transport of dangerous goods, as well as to reduce the number of incidents that occur when transporting dangerous substances. Furthermore, you said it envisioned the highest degree of security in the manipulation of a dangerous burden and predicted its adequate follow-up. That's good. It is normal that no one suspects your good intentions to act preventively and that these incident situations in the transport of dangerous cargo are indeed as small as possible. It's normal for every normal person to think this way. However, despite the best laws, Mr. Minister, in addition to its best wishes to be so despite the adequate monitoring of these laws passed in this area, life often brings about some unpredictable or unpredictable situations. Sometimes, despite the fact that almost all measures have been taken to avoid them, these unfortunate situations in the transport of dangerous cargo have occurred. What happens then? There's damage, and if that damage can't be compensated in some other way, then what? Are we going to refer to other laws, other regulations from other areas, other laws, to resolve these situations? Now that we have the one that caused the damage here and, more importantly, we have his property, why would we put someone who was damaged in transporting this dangerous burden, if we could already get into a situation to compensate for the property of whoever caused it? That's exactly what we're looking for with this amendment. Why should we force a man who is damaged to prove by other regulations, in other ways, who can last for a long time? Well, ultimately, in those regulations, Mr. Minister, you might as well ask as some previous question who caused the damage, which requires more time. Why would we allow all this if we could simply predict in this law that the damage would be compensated by the one who caused it? I think it's quite clear and that it's most logical. I believe that for these reasons I have said there are indeed all the reasons that are necessary to accept this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47045	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 9th amendment. Excuse me, Mr. Zoran Shami answered the previous amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47046	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, you know that this amendment seems to me extremely excessive, as well as some of the other amendments that the colleagues of the SRS have submitted. You certainly know that the DSS has not submitted amendments, but not because it is satisfied with the law, but because it believes that in this form the law is virtually irreparable without seeing any reason for it to be so. This is one fundamentally technical law, which in many ways is limited to some world-class mindsets, to world standards in the transport of dangerous substances, and as such should only have been written. Instead, we got first one technically bad text, and then wherever something could have broken or invented something that was unnecessary, it was done. The formation of another body, I was talking about it when there was a debate in principle and many other provisions, which are completely unnecessary in this law, burden this law and for this reason the DSS considers, I say, we could have submitted one fifty amendments, but it seemed completely unnecessary to us, because with little effort, goodwill and common sense could have suggested a very good text. I don't think the law has any special political connotations, and that's exactly why I don't understand why it wasn't done properly. This ministry has also suggested some much harder, to put it that way, laws than this. We've been doing things about them, we've been fixing them, and to some extent we've done it, we haven't been doing it right, because there was no understanding by the promoter, but this law simply has no reason to be who it is. I appeal once again that instead of discussing the amendments of my esteemed colleagues, it would be wiser to withdraw the law, to do what it should look like in a week or two, and then to return to the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47047	The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic, to whom I give my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. A bill on the transport of dangerous cargo, where my amendment asked for the headquarters of the Belgrade Transport Authority to move the dangerous cargo to Nis. Of course, the government did not accept this amendment, and in an explanation why it did not do so, it is said that the transport authority of the dangerous burden is the body within the ministry of traffic affairs, whose head office is in Belgrade. It's really like that and it's not controversial. The government goes on to say -- it is not all right for the administration's headquarters to move to another city, if the ministry responsible for this administration in Belgrade. I was just reminded by my colleague Avramovic, who we talked about yesterday until 10:00. We were just talking about a thing that is contrary to what the government has given in an explanation for refusing my amendment. Yesterday we were talking about a development fund that needs to be moved to Nis. We were talking about the Export Encouragement Agency that needs to be moved to Uzice. We talked about the National Employment Service that needs to be moved to Kragujevac, etc. In that very sense, all my colleagues from the SRS have submitted amendments to those laws, where some of these institutions that have been spoken of would be moved to their seats. Yesterday, we had one piece of information about the number of unemployed in these places where the government proposed moving institutions. We have seen, unfortunately, that the largest unemployment in Nis is both nominal and percentage. According to government data, there are 35,000 unemployed in Nis, which is slightly below 15% of the total population, and compared to the working population, it is also a larger number, though I also have the data that is higher. That is why I felt and asked that even in this symbolic way and through this administration it should be shown that Serbia is thinking, that is, the Serbian government is also thinking about other parts of it. A team before this is about the activity of transport, we know that Nis is the centre of the Balkans, that the main and most important point of the Corridor is 10 and certainly nothing would be lost and it would not be absolutely illogical, as the government claims, that the headquarters of that administration would be in Nis. If nothing else, it might in some way have a psychological effect on these people, not only from Nis, but from Nisovsky County and all of Southeast Serbia. I am aware that if the government would accept this amendment if the head office of the transport of dangerous cargo were to move to the city of Nis, so that it would not repair a bad business picture and any other picture of Nis and all of southern Serbia. Even, I think that if the entire government were to be moved to Nis, neither Nis nor Serbia would have had a big vision, given what this government is like. So I urge the present minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, to advocate his authority, to speak to his government associates once more and possibly accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47049	Fifty-two minutes left with the SRS and the authorised representative 13. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47050	I have submitted another amendment to the draft law on the transport of dangerous cargo and this time on Article 10. It's a bill of law. This member of the law speaks of the members of the examination committee. I felt that when putting together an examination committee and the people who make up the examination committee, it was necessary to make sure that they were men of the profession. The government has rejected this amendment again. The reason for the refusal of this amendment states that the government is calling for Article 22 of this law. The member, that part of which the government is called on, says the minister prescribes a programme, the way and the cost of passing exams. That's really how it stands in this mentioned article of the 22nd of this law, but it's not the subject of my amendment. In my amendment, I did not speak, nor asked to change the program, but asked to take care of the composition of the examination committee. Whoever makes the program, of course, can make the program in a way that he thinks is best, but that doesn't mean that whoever makes the program will make the examination committee. He can, but he doesn't have to. Usually, people who make a program or this or any other type don't make an examination committee, but other people do. In my amendment, I didn't talk about how to pass the exam. We know that there are different ways of passing exams, so exams can be oral, written, can be practical, etc., but the government is responsible for something I haven't talked about. I wasn't even talking about the cost of passing exams and the amount of costs of getting a license for advisors. Of course, it's a matter of the Minister, the Ministry and the Government and I didn't get involved in it. I asked that in all these things, the composition of committees, the assembly of questions, respect the profession and respect the science. In the light of the amendment, I have cited who should be doing everything in this commission and who should be involved in drawing up questions. First of all, I believe that prominent university experts who are compatible with this area should participate in all of this, primarily technology colleges, chemical colleges, engineering colleges, working protection colleges and some other colleges. I think experts from the relevant institutes can do the same. This way, when strictly and literally interpreting this law, it could be concluded that it is also the driver who can draw up the questions in question because he participates in the transport of this dangerous burden.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47051	A minute and 50 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47052	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 10 of this Law, refers to the tax-listing of the work carried out by the Administration for the Transport of Dangerous Freight, and at point 12 of Article 10, at which I submitted the amendment, I suggested that after the words "constitute examination questions to check the professional competences of the candidate for safety advisers in the transport of dangerous goods and publish them in a determined manner", the words "wherein it is necessary to consult with experts from this area from the university and the institute". Therefore, this point 12 concerns drawing up questions to verify the professional competence of the candidate for a safety adviser in the transport of dangerous cargo. I believe that in the transport administration there will be experts, given that this administration will be part of the Ministry of Traffic Affairs, but for the obligation to draw up examination questions for advisors, therefore, not for the driver, but for the person who is ranked according to the professional preparation, perhaps even greater than those colleagues sitting in the administration, and therefore I think it would be necessary to consult with experts from this field from the university or from the institute, who will certainly contribute to their experience and knowledge to both the profession and the resolution of this issue. In an explanation for the refusal of the amendment, you stated that issues would be drawn up in line with the content of the programme to be brought by the minister in charge of traffic affairs. This is another additional reason why this amendment should be accepted, because it seems a little selfish to reject the help of experts from the relevant university and institute, and the minister is putting the role of all-knowing or infallible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47053	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 12a be added after article 12. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47054	I submitted another amendment to the draft law on the transport of dangerous cargo and asked for a new member to be added after article 12. Namely, this Article 12 refers to the Department of Transport of Dangerous Freight. The Department of Transport of Dangerous Freight has enormous jurisdiction. This can be seen if you only partially look at this law because the largest number of members of this law speak of the competences of this administration. However, no member of this law speaks of the responsibility of the administration responsible for the transport of dangerous cargo. I thought that management should still be able to account for someone. I therefore proposed by amendment that this administration submit a report on its work every six months and that report should be submitted to the competent ministry. I believe that in this way at least a little lessen the influence or authority that this administration has, because it, in addition to having enormous powers, has no control and no responsibility whatsoever, can participate and abuse its role and its position, and in some way recruit all participants in the transport of dangerous cargo.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47055	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Comic, usually when you chair the minister is not here, but I will still take the opportunity to address the advisors more precisely the assistant ministers, why it is important to adopt this amendment. Therefore, the amendment to Article 12 requires the administration to submit a report on its work every six months to the Minister responsible for Health Affairs and Minister for Labour and Employment, therefore not to the Minister for Transport and Mr Mrkonjic himself, but also to the Minister responsible for Labour and Employment. For what? In this ridiculous explanation, the reason is said: "The Department of Transport of Dangerous Loads as a State Authority of the Ministry of Traffic Affairs", there is no place for the Ministry of Labour and Employment or the Ministry of Health, "educated to carry out dangerous cargo transport operations", it is not disputed, "responsibility of the state authorities of the administration and their relations with other state bodies are prescribed by a law governing the state administration". I'm asking you, since the law we passed in the previous period one ministry if it has a common area to report to another, namely one agency is passing a report to the other ministry, why wouldn't that be the case now? I will remind you that the Foreign Affairs Committee itself, the Privatisation Agency, reports a report, and the National Bank reports. I must remind you that this report from the administration is not just going to the Ministry. Why? Because it is the minister who proposes to the finance ministry the amount of money to be adopted by the budget next year for this administration to work. Thus, the bill requires that 80 million be allocated to the work of the administration in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Do you think no one should have control over how 80 million were spent? Do you think that MPs do not adopt the budget and this proposal of the ministry but the administration itself? So the report must be submitted. It is not the point of whether the report is submitted to the Ministry of State or to the Ministry of State, but generally to submit the report. That's why this amendment is so good. I'll remind you of one more thing, which is that the bill comes into effect only after 180 days, and that you wrote in article 98 that companies and legal entities or entrepreneurs who carry out the activity of transporting a dangerous burden are obliged to comply with this law within one year of the entry into force of this law. So the law comes in a year and a few months and a year of business companies have to agree or fit into the law. That's two and a half years. Two and a half years at 80 million, that's 160 million. Do you think management shouldn't file a report for that? Plus, in these provisions of this law, it says that in two months, the administration has to take full documentation from the ministry to begin its work. You have a time limit for the administration to leave in two months, and on the other hand you have a limit on the application of the administration in two and a half years or more accurately an employer in a year, and for a year and a half the administration itself to start implementing this law. That is why it is necessary to submit a report to the ministry, the ministry reports when the minister comes to the Assembly meeting, as MPs decide on how much funds will be allocated, whether less or more for the work of the body, so that the body can function in principle as well as any other regulatory bodies within the ministry. She has to take some bills, if not the minister himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47057	Four minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. Proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous cargo. In fact, this article 19 speaks of who and how the advisors report for the previous year. I asked my amendment not to make it a participant in the transport of a dangerous burden, as predicted by the law, but I asked for it to be done by a counselor. Namely, the transport adviser for a dangerous burden is an obligation imposed by the legislator on the transporter of dangerous cargo. I'm a participant in the transport of dangerous cargo, head of the firm, legal or physical face, the entrepreneur doesn't want and doesn't ask for an advisor. That's the law. Moreover, it is an additional obligation for him to pay. He's burdening his business. The law states that a participant in the transport of a dangerous burden must deliver a report from an adviser. It's absolutely logical that every report should be delivered by whoever made it. In this case it's made up by a counselor and he needs to do it. If we literally interpret this as being in the law that a participant in the transport of a dangerous burden must deliver that report, then literally looking at a participant in the transport of a dangerous burden is a driver and then om would have to draw up that report and deliver that report, and then the question is why is it? Is he only there to further burden the business of the participants in the transport?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47059	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47060	To remind us that the greatest possible causes of the accident in dangerous things and in peace are human error or failure to work, we all agree on this, unprofessional handling of dangerous things, disregarding static electricity in the technological process. Examples work, equipment malfunctions and facilities, inappropriate transport of dangerous things, a car accident or, God forbid, if there's no peace, a terrorist attack on the facility. All of this could be a threat to transport. All of this can cause a major ecological disaster. According to M.O.P. data, 85% of the accidents were caused by human guilt. Their frequency is year by year higher every time. Even less known and greater environmental impact has been caused by the release of dangerous things. Nevertheless, one thing is certain, dangerous things and in minimal quantities can pose a danger to human life and health. As far as road transport is concerned, the most common culprits are unprofessional relations. In this case, in this amendment, unprofessional relations is brought by an adviser, a inadequately educated and inexperienced driver who does not comply with the basic rules, such as speed adjusted to driving conditions, insufficient distance between vehicles, carelessly threatening, the culprits of the accident are always either unorthodox and fatigue and alcoholity of the driver. It's all because of the counselor again. Often the only way to force a driver to do a job according to the law, without any restrictions on environmental safety, is to respect regulations and ways of transporting dangerous things and road escorts. A consultant can ask that every vehicle has a road escort. In the report, the counselor can write how many times there are for which the needs are sought by road escorts. The danger of transporting dangerous things lurks on the roads and because of the poor condition in which our paths are located, we have already talked about it. When we add that even more transport modes are the most expensive in terms of rail, let's say, freight transport, the cost of driving energy in road transport may be even higher by nine times. That the share of emissions of harmful ingredients is almost 100% higher than rail transport and that therefore railway transport is imposed as the best and safest solution in transporting dangerous substances. Our opinion from the SRS that the transport of dangerous things in the future should be done by rail transport, and only in special cases if this is necessary by roadways. And that's why a counselor needs to, since the advisor is unlimited in the amount of rail transport, he has to file a report. This shows all the statistics that contribute to rail transport as safer, more economical and purer means of transporting dangerous things, generally and in general. It would also be important to pay more attention to this type of transport when passing driver's exams, that all those who pass the driver's test have a special category of behavior when seeing a transport vehicle with dangerous materials, keep a distance, that there is no obstacle, that it must be missed as a vehicle with the right of the passing championship, and these are the basic needs that a counselor, not a driver and an employer must do. You know that in today's country Serbia is the employer leader of its company, he is the owner, and that it is the people's - tied horse where your boss tells you to, and that possibility of a counselor when he doesn't do his job properly comes to his replacement. If the counselor has free hands to write a report to the Ministry, ask for consent and report on certain matters past the employer, then the possibility of increasing the safety of the movement of dangerous substances is far better for our paths. That is why the adviser should submit the report and therefore you should accept this amendment by counterpart Nikola Savic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47061	Four minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47062	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, transporting a dangerous burden is a very serious issue, an important question. The SRS has given this problem all the attention. You see that from the amendment that we have submitted, which we are now trying to explain that what the government has not decided to accept, the minister now, which I assume is supplied with such powers, could do so. Mr. Minister, I must present my personal gratitude. You are known as a man who ends everything before the deadline, but you did not do this bill within the time limit for EU experts to give their opinion on this law. That's what I like about it, and it also points to the nature of your character. In 2000, we are still deeply concerned about our strong desire to defend our country. You didn't do it by accident. I think it's intentional, because you heard earlier – Montgomery, he's not anyone, he's an ambassador of one state, he came here to do business, he came here to make one party, and those who come say what they think of such people. Each one from the EU has a similar attitude and attitude towards Serbia more or less. You understood it, recognized it, and I tell you – thank you. There's one thing you could do to make this law better arranged. I have submitted an amendment to Article 24. Proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous substances. Otherwise, this law aims to provide a state body, a cargo transport authority, with state powers, opportunities, imperatives, by forcing certain relations to be regulated in the area and to prescribe to all participants in the area how they must behave. In an explanation for not accepting my amendment, you said - the proposed amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is a member of 24. The bill also imperatives a norm and obliges transport organisers in the same way as the formulation of the proposed amendment. In the broadest sense of the interpretation of the law, all laws are imperative and have imperial norms, even those that provide Serbian citizens with certain powers. What it means is that for someone else, at least the government's authority, there's a commitment to how they treat citizens. Every organ, every law is an imperial law. What's in Article 24, very little obliges the participant to whom it should apply. Article 24. The bill reads like this – The Transport Organiser fulfils all obligations of the sender in the sense of this law. The transport organizer is executing. We didn't like this word "execution"; we didn't like it; we didn't like it; we liked it because it didn't have enough power to commit one who appeared as a participant in the realisation, designing and life-forming of the provisions of this law. We have proposed an amendment – the transport organizer is obliged. So he's not fulfilling it, he's obliged to carry out all the obligations of the sender in terms of this law, period. "Debt." Minister, this won't interfere with any of your concepts and the idea of this law. Nothing is simpler than to make a decision now, after I am done explaining this amendment and saying that the amendment has been accepted. Sometimes the explanation can, the disposition of something, completely disenfranchise and put out of force. The explanation that you used in the necessary means to enforce this law, you said you didn't need any ex post funds. It does not stand and cannot be, especially when you say it is necessary to provide 80 million dinars to comply with the provisions of this law, from the beginning, or to create preconditions, or later conditions for the operation of the Transport Administration of Dangerous Material. So you need funds. That's not so important right now. Now I have to go back a little bit to that amendment that my colleague Nikola Savic has submitted and about the headquarters of this Department of Transport of Dangerous Loads. Yesterday we just had, not to say, a whole day's debate on the matter. Today, in the light of the amendment, we have one other thing. It points to our consistency and to the inconsistency of the government. The most dangerous burden for citizens of the state, Mr. Minister, is this particular government, I'm not saying there are no ministers to be singled out. If it is possible, accordingly, to apply the provisions of this law and to carry out the government as the most dangerous burden for Serbian citizens, to leave a few ministers, I would not dare to single out now, not to make a mistake. This is what I just remembered. Maybe you'd be singled out. I'm not saying this because you're going to accept this amendment, but because you're trying within your powers to do something. If you don't find it difficult to take a word of this law, tell us a word, what is the situation with exporting dangerous nuclear waste from the Vinci Institute, as long as it stops? Bozidar Djelic sometimes takes some part in the problem, and then retires, doesn't say anything about it. This country does not have enough resources to organise a regular list that is scheduled for next year. That's what the Bureau of Statistics said. Last year we passed a law that accurately envisioned, on average, how much resources should be allocated to prepare these activities by a mandatory law. There's not a single penny yet set aside for that, let alone something else. Comrade Stevanovic, let them not hope for this, a little consideration of your one conclusion, let not those who wish to betray, that they will receive those 10 million dinars. There are also those who are willing to do it for free. They have recently been promoted in a large building that citizens have built, probably, so that some cultural events can organize there, not throw dust into the eyes of citizens and bring the greatest enemies of the Serbian people. The attitude of the Serbian people towards such people has shown, I don't know which November was at the Arena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47063	The time used by the parliamentary group is four minutes and 50 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47064	People's MPs, I have submitted another amendment to this bill that we are considering today, the law on the transport of dangerous cargo, to the 27th member of this law. This Article 27 speaks of measures to be taken in the event of the disappearance of a dangerous burden. I have to say that this is a very important, very important member and that this is not as simple as the law says here. I was surprised by the fact that the government did not accept this amendment. There are several reasons, there are several ways that a dangerous burden can disappear. Now I won't list all these possibilities, it may be theft, etc., but the law says that all possible measures should be taken to find a dangerous burden. It's okay, since it's really a dangerous burden. It must not be allowed to happen that the burden is gone and that we don't care. After a while, say, make a big deal out of it. We need to be aware of the fact that sometimes a dangerous burden can disappear in such a way that it is no longer possible to find it. How? Like, a dangerous burden can sometimes evaporate into the atmosphere. In that case, it's absolutely pointless to find a dangerous burden, it's impossible to find it. Only then is it determined that he has disappeared, and eventually, measures are being taken to address the consequences, if some of the environmental damage and environments in which man lives have occurred. With my amendment, I asked for this to be put into law. However, as you know, the government has rejected this amendment. In light of the refusal of this amendment, the amendment is said to be rejected because it is identical to the bill. I really don't want to read my amendment here, and I don't want to read the bill, because it would bother the MPs and not waste any time at my disposal. Everyone who loves to look at these two things will see that absolutely my reasoning is not the same as the bill. So I urge once again that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47065	The time used by the parliamentary group is 50 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47066	A colleague, Mirovic, submitted an amendment to Article 37, asking for the position of 1st. The bill changes and reads – a participant in the transport of dangerous cargo is obliged to receive only qualified persons for the job in the business of transporting dangerous cargo. It is true that this bill allows for the role of advisers who are tasked with training a person to reduce the possibility of security, but generally if a participant in the transport of a dangerous burden or company would already receive a person who has an appropriate working experience, who already has all the necessary exams or permits, or any recommendation by a larger firm, who accidentally got out of this size of work, it is a pity to leave such a man on the street, to give him to drive another vehicle, in addition to a specific education he has both this law and previous work experience. If we put a preamble, actually, if we put an accent on this "it's due", then we commit the employer to do it. One who has received a working relationship with a person who is qualified for this job, and in the meantime, since his knowledge is being restored here for two years, within those two years his knowledge is not being used or not being at the level at which he is a counselor, then within the meaning of this law, he has the opportunity to raise his knowledge to a certain level. What makes me say that? I say because it is estimated that some 300 tonnes of hazardous waste are produced annually in Serbia. It is mainly exported to neighbouring countries. It burns there because there is no possibility of such things, as there is no possibility of permanent storage of such things, now it is Minister Dulic who has set off something with some loans, and whether it will be realised remains a question, as well as a dump for hazardous waste. As a result, companies that have harmful chemicals often delay them in their circle illegally or take them to a dump, which poses a great danger. One of the basic actions in the process of transport with a dangerous burden that can have a major impact on the occurrence of an accident is the illegal transport of dangerous substances. In order for this illegal transport of dangerous substances to work, the driver must be an unprofessional person. So a professional person who knows that from point A to point B dangerous cargo must be transported in a special way would never do that. Therefore, we cannot even face the role of advisors in this bill but must make a condition that a person who is qualified for the job must be admitted to work. This is how we're going to take people with a transport-sized vehicle category, for C and E, who don't have special tests for dangerous substances, and then the counselor, I repeat once again, on that people's "tether the horse where your boss tells you to", will be able to educate those drivers the boss suggested, whether they're capable of it or not. The basic legal basis has been fulfilled because the advisor has done his part of the job, and failing to do so does not mean that security is at an envious level. That is why this amendment should be accepted by my colleague Mirovic, for the simple reason of security and people, by entrepreneurs and by the driver himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47067	Three minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47068	With this amendment, the SRS requested that the deadline for checking the knowledge of those persons involved in the transport of a dangerous burden be shifted from two to three years. The government rejected it because it says international standards must be applied. Now we're practically in the field of international standards. When Serbia meets all international standards, then someone will come into this building and tell us that Serbia no longer exists, because besides the massive government we have hundreds of agencies, we have double local self-government, we have everything and everything, we just don't have a normal life. It is that it was this English ambassador the other day in an arena where there was a gathering of enemies of Serbia, and then he said that Serbia is a normal European state. We don't even know what's normal, we don't even know what's European in Serbia, and we don't even know if Serbia is a state. Well, you see, there's another ambassador who owns some agencies, but it doesn't matter. It's important, Mr. Mrkonjic, what our relationship to something that is international standards. With this bill in Article 2, you have skillfully avoided describing what a dangerous burden is, you have already said - what is prescribed by international conventions. But a dangerous burden can also be a dangerous thing. A dangerous burden is that substance, a transporting substance that can explode because of its properties, to kill people, can infect the environment, can infect people. It's such a broad definition that at times I think that anything that moves like a dangerous thing, depending on what is in the means of transport, can be subject to the provisions of this law. Of course, they're not disputed tanks with oil, gasoline, pomegranate and other chemicals. It's not a dispute when it comes to explosives, weapons, it's not a question of nuclear waste or anything like that. But, you know, I get the impression that Belgrade is under constant siege because there's always some dangerous burden driving around. A little bit and a little bit, and in the opposite direction, they pass a black limo with a red-and-blue light. Who is it? They say, "Sutanovac." What's going in the opposite direction? They say: A dangerous burden is driven. Then with Santa, that radioactive group when it's headed for the pioneer park, you know, that bull's-eye from Cobra. He says - the President of the Republic goes, he has to be such a security guard. If such a security detail were really carrying a dangerous burden, we'd be a far safer state, if there was a car security, not if we had a little bit of a leak out of the car. Why? It's a tanker old. Why are we not in a situation, like some abroad, when they hear that radioactive nuclear waste is moving from France to East Germany, where there is reportedly a large storage facility and facilities for neutralization and destruction, and then all the way through people are protesting because they are polluted by the air passing one such composition. That can be an unmerciful rumbling with us. If it wasn't for those explosions in Paracino, they built an American military base in central Serbia. They say only because of that explosion and the proximity of the highway had to postpone that agreement with Vuk Draskovic for several more years. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, do you remember the first thing the Government of Domazette did, as Minister of Science and Technology? He used ten million dollars of U.S. loan to export nuclear waste from Vinci to destroy himself out there in Russia. You remember, you were an MP, you voted for that law, where that help was given. The Americans say -- we have to get it out of Serbia because Serbs could make bombs with the poor uranium, the same ones they've been throwing at us here. So they can shoot, and we can't even think about doing it. What the former Minister Parivodic said - the state is sovereign only if it has an atomic bomb. If she doesn't have an atomic bomb, she's not sovereign. We were around here until 2000 so we could have an atomic bomb. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, now you see, to remind you, there is one letter from 2000, written by Willy Wimmer. He was then vice president of the OSCE Assembly. In April 2000, Mr. Mrkonjic, when they wanted to take us down from power, these resistors, the State Department and some US Institute in Bratislava organised a conference on the Balkans and the expansion of the NATO Pact. They were Milan Pajevic from Serbia, Aleksandar Fatic, you know, the big one, and Bratislav Grubacic, the one who publicly works for foreigners. What's the decision then? Mrs Comic, attention has been paid, a decision has been made to permanently exclude Serbia from European development, which means that Serbia will never become an EU member, whether it wants it or not, is meant for Serbia, and that as soon as possible, the international recognition of Kosovo's independence and much more has been decided, but it has been said to those who have installed it here that Serbia will be distracted by further integrations, giving it a constant fulfillment of impossible conditions, so as to constantly weaken and disintegrate. These two are all variations and variations with changed actors, characters. All those who are very serious about politics in the Republic of Serbia need to know this. If they don't know this, they're heading home, they're not doing this job. Citizens of Serbia, you are now clear on this story, international standards, European integration, the European future, it is all something ugly, bad, against the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's well-involved by a bill like this that's inadmissible. This law cannot be applied as it is written. If someone wanted to seriously apply this regulation and what was written here, no tanker would be able to pass through Serbia. Serbia must be puzzled by further integrations and conditions that are impossible, and those from abroad know very well, know everyone who was in Arena 15 days ago, it was a set of enemies of Serbia, they would even have caught, as if Mladic were a dangerous burden. There are young men here in Belgrade, you can take them for free, I mean privately when they're caught by you who were in the arena. I know Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic shares my opinion and I will finish this discussion, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, because of you before the deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47069	Used six minutes and 20 seconds of Parliament time. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47070	In light of the reasons for the adoption of this law, among other things, the government told us that some conventions were adopted, some agreements and that all this was done without legal basis in the country of Serbia. You are saying that, as a result of the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations, it was not possible to apply certified international agreements, no system for authorising natural and legal persons to carry out operations in the transport of dangerous goods could be established, nor could legal and natural persons who violated the provisions of those agreements be punished. This is really a little bit of the wrong order of things for us to accept someone's terms there and then realize that there was actually no legal basis for that. Of course, we must not forget that famous agreement signed by Vuk Draskovic, on the basis of which Serbia's occupation was actually recognised, because it is allowed for NATO troops to perform in every form and in every way and without any control in the state of Serbia. When it comes to this law on the transport of dangerous cargo and this Article 44, which we have submitted to the amendment, I have to remind myself of something that happened yesterday with one amendment, because similarity is great, only yesterday it was by the chairman's parliament, and today it's by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday, Serbia's public was deceived that SRS lawmakers had submitted an amendment to an attitude that did not exist in the proposal of the member we discussed yesterday. Of course, it turns out that's not true, but the public is not informed that it's not true, and that's why I want to take advantage of the opportunity and remind myself, because the public knows that there is no one in this room who knows the Rules of Procedure as well as the MPs of the SRS. That's certainly undeniable. What you're smiling about, Mrs. Comic, is your thing, but I'm saying that the public knows and it's absolutely true, and yesterday we proved to you that you wanted to deceive the MPs and convince us that we have submitted the amendment... (President: Given the excellent knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, would you be good at respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the matter of the agenda, please return to the agenda point. ) Mrs. Comić, at the beginning of this part of the argument, I said that I would explain this, that I had to make a parallel with yesterday. Today it is about the government trying to deceive the public like you yesterday and explaining to the public that the MPs of the SRS do not know the Rules of Procedure. We're not even smart enough to read and understand what it says in some government proposal. According to the Government, the law, i.e. Article 44, refers to vehicles for the transport of dangerous cargo operated by the driver, and then sets out the conditions which the driver must meet, and inter alia says that the driver is referred to his obligations and the requirements of specific conditions in the transport of a particular dangerous burden in accordance with the regulations laid down in Article 2(2) of point 1 of this Act and other regulations. We say that it should not be stated that the driver is committed, but that the driver must know well the specific conditions that must be met in the transport of a certain dangerous burden. We're absolutely sure that's the way it should be, and we're absolutely sure that we didn't rewrite something the government wrote. The Government, in its explanation, says that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the way it is done, i.e. that the text of what we have proposed in the amendment has the exact same meaning as the text of Article 44(3). So, if it's the same thing as being directed and having to know certain conditions well, then there really is one problem here. We do not expect the government to accept this amendment, that the resolution minister will do so, and this very argument was intended to accept the amendment, to appeal to the parliamentary majority, there are a dozen MPs, and these others do not know what we are talking about, but what we wanted to specifically explain this amendment is because you are trying to deceive citizens, the public of Serbia when it comes to amendments submitted by SRS MPs, which are always in line with our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47071	Four minutes and 20 seconds used by the MP's group. The 46th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important law on the transport of dangerous cargo, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 46, and in order to be clear, I would only read that Article 46, paragraph 2, which is why I ask that Article 46 be deleted. The position of Article 46, says - if a police officer in the process of controlling participants in road traffic determines irregularities in the transport of dangerous burdens that could affect the safety of people, property, or environmental protection, it is necessary to exclude that participant in the transport of dangerous cargo from traffic and inform the Administration immediately. That's probably referring to that department for transporting dangerous cargo. I've given one explanation and I'm saying that eradicating a position is required because a police officer in the exercise of road traffic control is not appropriate to determine whether a vehicle can be a threat to the safety of people and the environment. This is where the members of 46, 47 and 48 deal with the traffic of dangerous substances in road traffic. Since a traffic militiaman, as we like to say, about a year ago he's got a new traffic safety law, I'm afraid that this law that's quite extensive, in dozens of members of the law, not to say a hundred members, the police officer in question should know by heart, and if we put this in to assess and assess that this is a dangerous material that will endanger the safety of people, or the environment, I think we're going to go too far with the fact that these people have to be absolutely like computers that have to react quickly at that point. As for this dangerous material, Mr. Minister, I have to say that it's very important, especially for my environment, and it's about the inhabited place of Lemani and the synthetic rubber factory, where every day it comes in and out of a lot of dangerous matter. I don't know if only one police officer is enough to determine whether there are irregularities in that vehicle in the transport or whether it should be done by experts, as some of my colleagues, MPs from the SRS, have explained. So, I insist that this amendment of mine should still be accepted, and the amendment would automatically improve the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47073	One minute of the MP's time was used. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) National MP Petar Jojic, then MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47074	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, what counterpart Krstin pointed out is one of the important factors, and that means that if a police officer excludes a driver who transports a dangerous burden and informs the Administration, the question arises - what will the administration do at that time and within what time to take the appropriate measures, so that the vehicle is removed and left in a safe place so as not to cause unwanted consequences, especially in the case of liquid transport that is very dangerous. I wanted to use your presence to distract you and to introduce you that Pančev is a city with such an industry that represents very dangerous products, and in the past we have had numerous incidents and accidents at work, precisely because in these factories, especially Petrochemy and Refinery, they produce very dangerous substances. In Petrochemia, Mr. Minister, you have today such dangerous waste that is lagered. When the environment minister, Mr Dulic, came in two years ago, made sure that there were huge amounts of hazardous material in the cycle of Petrochemy, health-damaging waste, and at the same time there was no really serious accident or incident that could cause adverse consequences for the health of Pančevci. Panchevo is a typical city that fits exactly according to its products and the shipping of products in accordance with the law. Only by air traffic of dangerous substances from Pancheva are they not transported, they are transported by rail, and by road traffic and by water traffic. We've had numerous incidents and casualties in the past. I would ask you to, and I would suggest that, daily from the southern industrial zone of Petrochemia, which has seven factories, where the dirtiest industry is produced, dirtier than anywhere in Europe, that your professional services and advisors, supervisors and inspectors make a tour of the southern industrial zone, where you will make sure that there is really dangerous material there. That there is no control over the transport of dangerous substances, i.e. from Rafineria and Petrochemia, there is no control in rail or road traffic, that sufficient control determines the correctness, primarily of the tanks, both in railways and in road transport. One more thing, if you'll allow me, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you on behalf of the Pančevs who were really damaged so much that Beovovoz was abolished for Pancheva, instead of 19 departures, it was now reduced to only seven-eight, and annually from Panče's workers, students, students and other citizens used, a million and 300 citizens used Beovoz services. What can you do to allow the citizens of Pancheva, who are dissatisfied, protest and expect the government to resolve this issue, to allow Beovoz, who goes to India, to go to Pancheva as well? The Spanish would be very grateful and pleased to be allowed to use Beovoz, that he has more departures. There were 20 departures a day, and now it's reduced. Take a look at this situation, run an analysis and gather information. Secondly, should the city government of Pancheva participate financially in ensuring the conditions for this route to be extended and to increase the number of departures and departures, so that the citizens of Pancheva can enjoy the same rights as those of India and other parts around Belgrade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47075	Five minutes of MP time was used. Since we have the opportunity to witness the passage to the gallery, just to inform the National Assembly and MPs that they are at the gallery in walking, visiting the National Assembly, scholarships to the government of the Republic of Serbia's co-ordination body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, who are visiting the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In view of their large number, the visit was arranged only to tour the halls and premises of the National Assembly. Anyway, and those who are now at the gallery and everyone else, welcome to the National Assembly. National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47076	It would be good if we had an audience all the time to keep this session going, given that the situation was different from the chairman's when she wasn't there, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47077	I would ask you to keep an eye on the respect of the Rules of Procedure and to speak about the agenda. If you have any objections to the breach of the Rules of Procedure made by the Chairman, I urge you to have the right to appeal to Article 103 to ask for the word to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, please do not violate the regulations of the Rules of Procedure which oblige you to speak on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47078	That's what I did, so I earned a warning. So that I wouldn't give you any attention, so in Article 46 of my colleague, Kristin asked to delete Section 2. For what reason? It is said – if a police officer in the process of controlling participants in road traffic etc. determines the irregularity, it is required to exclude it from traffic. Not to read the whole attitude. I must remind you that a greater security threat is such if a vehicle with a dangerous load stands in the way where it is not intended to stand and be exposed to both traffic accidents and elemental accidents, robbery or any other kind of security threat. So the exclusion from traffic when an irregularity is established that is not specified in which degree, on which basis, you have in Article 80, which I will explain to you later, as well as my colleague, Verica Radeta, where inspection of the transport of dangerous cargo in road traffic is said to be carried out by the method of random choice of vehicle. So this is about a police officer who controls work, and this is about an inspection that happens to control or a sample of random control, not regular or, if necessary, as we wrote the amendment, specifically my colleague. What is the essence of this amendment? The point is that there is no degree of offence, that this exclusion from traffic can be made a monopoly, that the type of material that is contained under the marking - dangerous matter, does not have to be to this extent dangerous to endanger the continuation of its course, that the technical reception of a cargo container or a tanker which has been made can be legal and that it is subsequently illegally carried out, and any traffic accident in which it has not been recorded. Thus, a vehicle can be harassed by itself for some other reasons. It's a traffic guy who can't determine that. The management notice assumes that an inspection will be engaged based on a random sample, so exclusion is not a very good solution in every sense of the word, that on a broken rearview mirror you turn off the vehicle from traffic, although I agree with you that it can endanger safety, but not to the extent that it would endanger it if it stays on the spot where it is excluded. So we don't have a chance for a separate parking lot to shut down. Traffic infrastructures don't allow us to, even on the highway of a certain parking trail are at a certain distance from each other, so it's more insecure to shut down the vehicle on the spot, but to remove it where it is designated for that type of cargo. Therefore, this amendment should be accepted, regardless of what is foreseen by the explanation that a police officer is doing the controls, it is not disputed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47079	Two minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Both the Government and the Transport and Connection Committee accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted another amendment to this bill that we are considering today, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Freight. This article 51 refers to the transport of dangerous goods in rail traffic. This article discusses advisers for the transport of dangerous cargo, this time exclusively about rail traffic advisers. However, the law does not predict how many of these advisers should be. As it is about rail traffic, I believe, there is also a minister, to know exactly what the number of railway employees is, what the capacity of participants in the transport of dangerous freight on the railways is. However, today we had a chance to read in the newspaper that about 500 people had already gone, took severances, or retired, so somewhere around 18,000, as far as I can see, there are employees. Since it's a known piece of information, a known parameter, that's why I think you can predict the exact number of advisors. With my amendment, I asked it to be 10. I'm not saying that this number is 10, or I said no more than 10, I'm not saying that it's the most appropriate number, but the idea of my amendment was that, since it's the data that's known, it can be precisely defined by the number of counselors. The minister and his associates will assess. This number can be greater than 10, it can be less than 10. I can't say how much it is, but I can say that it can be accurately precise. As far as this law is concerned today, the matter treated by this law has so far been scattered through various international agreements, various regulations and through several other laws. I can agree that it was necessary to break this into one whole, into a whole new law, like this law on the transport of dangerous cargo. However, I must say that this is one of the worst laws, which I have said, if you remember, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and in the principle debate, and now I repeat that this is one of the worst laws in the field of traffic and transport, which we have considered so far, and there have been many. This law on the transport of dangerous cargo does not deal with the essence of transport. He is more concerned with administrative matters, and the impression is that this law has been passed in order to form a transport authority for dangerous cargo which, as I said through one of the amendments, has unlimited jurisdiction and no responsibility. When we get a little bit more into the essence and content of this law, and if we didn't happen to know its title, then we could easily conclude that it is an educational institution, a school, or in the worst case of an institute whose basic activity is education. We have seen that the Department of Transport of Dangerous Loads is the fundamental theme of this law, but nowhere is what I think would be most important for that administration, who makes that administration, how many employees will have, what its structure will be qualified and so on, and the role of this administration is so much too stressed, as if half of the European dangerous burden were being transported on our roadsides. It seems that, or maybe I didn't get all this right, maybe when he wrote this, he was a legislator, but it's not popular to say that a huge amount of dangerous cargo is transported through Serbia's roads. This cargo transport authority is a congested organ. I don't think the frames that are supposed to work in it are best respected by this law. In one place, it is said of an authorised body which grants approval for a type of vehicle for transporting a dangerous load, but is not said anywhere when and under what conditions that authorized body gives, and where it is denying approval for the transport of dangerous cargo. Then it turns out that approval depends on the well-willed person who gives that approval, on his discretionary right, not to say anything else. We know from experience, and we witness every day in Parliament, that all your laws that you bring and adopt here are mostly inapplicable, and this law will certainly be inapplicable because of the many shortcomings and shortcomings it has. When it comes to estimating financial resources, it is said that Serbia's budget does not need to allocate additional resources to fill jobs, but only needs to allocate 80m dinars for material resources for the start of a dangerous cargo transport administration. Here I return to that first amendment that I had, when I asked for the headquarters of this administration to transport a dangerous burden from Belgrade to Nis, because if 80 million funds were to be allocated in Belgrade to start the work of this administration, I am sure that dislocating this administration, i.e. moving or setting up that administration, since it has not yet come to life, would cost twice as much in Nis. As for filling new job openings in this administration, it is said that new workers will not be admitted for this, but will be re-allocated from other state authorities after an internal competition is carried out. I believe you'll do it that way, but one very important fact is predicted when it comes to this. This is about a tightly specialized job. It's a dangerous burden. Not everyone can deal with this matter. Someone can be educated and highly educated and a graduate lawyer and a doctor of law science or some other profession and top expert, an intellectual, and a knower, but he has no touch points with the transport of dangerous cargo, so I have no doubt that these people who are excesses, or unallocated in other state bodies, will be able to meet the jobs required by the transporting authority of a dangerous burden. On the contrary, I don't think the vast majority, and perhaps not even any of those who are excess, will be able to meet these demands. Practically, this finding that it will not be necessary to receive new workers does not stand. That's why we intervened with a large number of amendments. You have accepted two amendments, although I personally expected, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjić, that you will adopt much more, but well, what is there. I urge you to think twice about the amendments submitted by the SRS. Otherwise, the law as a law is very bad, and I believe that soon this law will be back on track again, and if that happens, then you'll probably have in mind all of what we in the SRS are saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47081	Seven minutes and 20 seconds have been used for the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47082	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wanted to ask a question to the Minister of Transport, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. Are you familiar with the project "Vin", related to the transport of radioactive waste that must be transported to the country of origin, Russia, by the end of these days or by the end of the year? As far as this radioactive waste is concerned, you well know how much this precaution is needed, or how much monitoring is needed, not only through Serbia, but through other countries in the environment through which this dangerous burden should go. You know very well that in 2002, 50 kilos of fresh nuclear fuel, which was harmless, had one huge control and had to return to the country of origin. If I say he's harmless, I can say that for sure. This means that you can hold him in your hand and he won't be dangerous to human health, while exhausted radioactive waste is very dangerous. Vice-President of the Assembly, as he laughs at my exposure by saying whether this burden is dangerous or not, I can safely tell you that it is harmless, but its value was enormous, unlimited and finally returned to the country of origin, but unfortunately, the then government had no hearing that along with that fuel it could also return this radioactive waste, but now the state has to be in debt for $25 million to be able to normally engage in the transport of this dangerous substance. So please, are you as a traffic minister involved and are you following this? Because we of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, so to speak, every month we schedule a committee to be able to track what stage it is, have these containers that need to be packed with this radioactive waste? I think you as a traffic minister should be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47083	Two minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47084	In Article 55(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The SRS tried to amend to help define what could be the notion of "a small amount of dangerous burden being carried by a skeleton". We tried to define it. You said it was not good, that the definition was given in the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Freight to the Inland Waterways ADN. Here is the ADN - Economic Commission for Europe, the Committee on Land Transport, the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Load on Internal Waterways ADN, the Final Act, and the List of abbreviations. I see Avramovic copied this from some big book. There's everything here, but these people couldn't figure out how a certain notion of "small amount of dangerous cargo was carried by a skeleton". It's on South Morava, what about the Rooster, this skeleton, or this one on the Danube? Of course, there is no question that passengers should not be on the platform, etc. when transporting a dangerous burden. I guess that's what that means. Then we came to the conclusion that if in our law it is written or explained by some members of the law that the concept of a small dangerous burden is defined by international acts, then Dragojlo from Petlovac must be on the scale that he has an international agreement. He's got nowhere to go to see if that's two kilos, five, ten or 15. This is where we come into our problem in 2006. He was then escalating, when some who tried to be very smart concluded that international standards were an integral part of our legal order, whether we ratified them or didn't ratify them. If we have ratified them, they are directly applied and the state has no obligation to make certain obligations under the international agreements that we have ratified predicate to its internal legal order, so that they become something mandatory for our citizens. In the implementation of Article 55(2) of the Government, a small amount, and how much, we will see. Where do we see it? Should we go to Brussels and see? Now that Dragojlo or son of Dragan from Petlovec should go to Brussels to pass an international agreement, because if he comes to our foreign affairs ministry to ask – please give me this ratified agreement or to look in the library for international contracts or read and then pass as my Avramovic, photocopyed a 900 book and some pages and didn't find it. I can't call you personally now, Mr. Mrkonjic, you have a job, you have people who know it, etc., but while we're talking about this international standard, Mr. Mrkonjic, in 2001 you were an MP in the Federal Assembly, when DOS took over, do you remember any Sasa Vitosevic at the time, he was a minister of agriculture? Do you remember there was a big problem here with genetically modified soybeans? The head of customs control was Ivana Dulic Markovic. There's been a story, it can't get any better, no matter what it is, you lick your fingers. After two years, a law was passed which accepted the international standard that it was banned, and this year you saw in Ratkov, the agricultural inspection annulled the parcels where the soybeans were planted. It's for television, and in practice, it's all collected and sent to Victoria Group to put it all in Euro-Disel, not Euro-Disel, but Eco-Disel, Bio-Disel. Do you see how stretchy it is with us with international standards, like gum, when you put ten packs in your mouth and make a large amount, so when you open up like this, the regulation is spread? If you let him go, he folds in as much as he needs to be punished, selectively. International standards are spreading like this, and now we have this problem of how this law applies to the skeleton. It's a big question to me if you can even use a skeleton to drive that dangerous load? Our reality is that we have skeletons and probably need a little bit of that dangerous burden to shift, because all the dangerous burden isn't as dangerous as we're talking about, there's also a useful burden. Although, I haven't noticed where he's shown some great benefit yet, but he probably does, which is why there's this burden and that kind of danger. We tried to say, five tons, that's something that can fit on a scale. You said it couldn't be five tons. That by international standards can be as much as ADN says. Whoever doesn't believe, let them look at ADN. When he looks at ADN, he's a wuss. Why the stutter? Here's to tell you what's going on -- a European agreement on international transport, then a factor in bioconcentration, then a biochemical need, then a central board for the navigation of Rayna, then an association for compressed gases, and genetics, and polychlorinated bio-phenyls, and an explosive extremely insensitive, etc. You see Dragojl when he comes on the scale and that Millisin comes to him, as he was, countryman, Millisin is, and the son of Dragan and he says – please see this ADS, ADN, to see if there is this four-digit number in your pack of cigarettes to mark matter or subject according to the UN regulation module? Djelic wouldn't recognize this. He couldn't apply. Bozidar Djelic, that's the one who's famous for it -- he's the one who bought him a lamb, he's got him a charlain. He didn't know the difference between a carrot and a lamb. Here are those international standards. I know Mr. Mrkonjic is a man of the people, and he's having a hard time getting along, but we jump these experts around him, we want to go to Europe, because we want to go to Europe, we don't have a choice, we need everything coded, and it doesn't apply at all. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I assume that this will change very quickly and introduce a European standard for skeletons, for oars, waterways, upriver, downriver and per cable. It's got to be a special hydraulic, that when that thing falls down that they can get the car out so they don't hit the cards down there, etc. I'm trying to make this a little funny to make it interesting, so people can hear it, to smile sweetly how pointless these regulations of the European Union are. Since I see you're getting ready for the replica, let me tell you, Mrs. Comic, that we have a problem in Serbia a long time ago. Now I'm going to define it about to be inspiring, but there's no Milivojevic, he's my regular patient, someone else has to show up. I say imagine my ambassador in your country now calling your prime minister and asking him to have lunch with him, so he'd think it was some kind of joke, a hidden camera. Do you know that, Mrs. Comic? Yes, it is. What does this interviewer say? He says so -- because if we had ministers on that call saying cold sorry, I don't have time for that, after two or three times they'd give up. But since we still have this lower-value complex, I don't have, to be clear, I think we're a little generated by this unhealthy situation, that our country is much more debated abroad than is being discussed about similar countries like Romania, Croatia, Greece. I don't see why Serbia would be in a different position than those other countries. I've been saying this for ten years. Ten years. You're gonna seduce Mrconjit out there in that government. Disperse those who go to lunch with the ambassadors, so they're invited to the Arena as a backup. (President: National MP, both ambassadors and lunches have nothing to do with the agenda. They have to do with ADN and the schooling, ma'am, not with these schoolings around the building. Mrs. Comic, you must be stronger for one experience. I first mentioned the question of these bad portraits, the man resigned. I was the first to ask the question of the skeleton. There's probably something else going on. Many times I first started something, so you smiled. In the end, the saying is confirmed – the last one laughing is the cutest one laughing. And I finished this before the deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47085	Eight minutes of time used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The word is by MP Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47086	How long? (President: The parliamentary group has seven minutes and 30 seconds. Authorised representative three minutes. ) I believe that it is necessary for the Government to accept this amendment because it significantly corrects and clarifys Article 69. It's a bill of law. The government has prescribed that a dangerous burden sender has an obligation to train professionally employed persons carrying dangerous burdens. This leads to the obligation of one who sends a dangerous burden to train all persons involved in the transport of dangerous cargo. That's absurd. One who sends a dangerous burden may be responsible for its transport only until the burden is delivered to another authorised carrier of a dangerous burden, which will translate it to the final destination. For example, there is a situation where dangerous cargo is transported by plane. If there is a solution proposed by the Government, then whoever sends a dangerous burden has only two options: the first possibility to train an airline pilot to carry and another option to buy himself a plane, or an airline and hire pilots, and then train them to be expert in transporting dangerous cargo. Both are in a great fight with common sense. That is why I suggest Mr. Mrkonjic shows a minimum of goodwill and understanding and accepts this amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47087	Anyone else want a word? The 74th Amendment was submitted by the Government, and the Transport and Connection Committee accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted this amendment as well. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47088	Ladies and gentlemen, here we have also come to the last amendment to this law and it is common that this is how a few sentences summed up what is actually the position of the Serbian Radical Party, given that we are the only amendments that intervened on this law and that it could be said that this is a bad law and that it would be best to withdraw from the procedure, because it is not too late for that and that a law that would make sense and that would be applicable is really passed. We've heard arguments here, and why the law doesn't make sense, we've heard arguments that make this law inadmissible, and believe me, this is quite a waste of time, and it's not the first time. On the contrary, very often and quite certainly more than two-thirds of the rules adopted in this House are inapplicable and we Serbian radicals regularly draw attention to it and do not order it, but very argumentably and very concretely, and government representatives do not want to accept it, representatives of the assembly majority also do not want to accept it. And what's going on? And then in a month, two or three, we have changes on the agenda, changes and additions to that same law, and again we have the same arguments, and again we are wasting the same time, the same period of time, and we are actually going round and round and that the representatives of the ruling majority like to praise how many rules, how many laws have been passed in this House, and if someone were to seriously analyze it, then it would be quite clear that we didn't actually bring one third, or that you didn't vote one third of those laws, because the same law you're changing several times. I am saying this in the context of this law, or the proposal and this amendment, because it would be good to accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, so that as much as this law is brought into some normal frameworks and bar, if anything, to be applicable. What is the meaning of this 80th article on which the amendment was submitted? He's one of the members of chapter 10 who speaks of inspection oversight of the application of this law. Then you have in Article 80(1), where we have intervened in the amendment, such a possibility of abuse that it is simply amazing. It is amazing that the congregation’s majority of laws are passed in such a way as to open a wide door to abuse in the application of this law. The law should, I guess, be passed with the opposite intentions, that the application of the law prevents maximum abuse. Why do we say it's like this? Because Article 80(1) states that road transport inspection is carried out by means of a random vehicle selection method. We think it should stand to monitor the transport of dangerous cargo in road transport as necessary, making sure that the surveillance covers all kinds of dangerous burdens that are transported through our roads. This is absolutely more precise, absolutely meaningful. If we leave the possibility of this control being carried out by the method of random choice of vehicle, and taught by experience, not only in this area, but unfortunately in all areas and in all parts of society in our country, such corruption is such and there is so much crime that it scares a serious man. We now leave the possibility for some inspectors to choose. Just because it's gonna be a random pattern, no one really believes it. But on the basis of this article and this bill of law, they're going to make a nice deal with whoever's carrying a dangerous burden. Of course, this will create a monopoly, as one of the dangerous substances and liquids, unfortunately, in the 10 years DOS has been in power in Serbia and not only in this area, but wherever you go, we meet with the monopoly. We're free of anti-monopoly commissions, we're free of all kinds of regulatory so-called. independent bodies. Every day we meet that none of these bodies, in fact, are independent. So, the inspectors will publicly share with those transporters of dangerous cargo and control someone with no interest, and the one where they have an interest and where they will, of course, make some financial transaction that will do whatever they want on our roads. The government has had no serious argument against this amendment, because you will admit Mr. Mrkonjic that the amendment is extremely meaningful, that it really improves the text of the law and that it would mean a lot in the application of the law if you accepted this amendment. Since the government was not in the mood to do so, it says that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the way in which the inspection was carried out is prescribed in this article and this attitude is set out by the Council of Ministers, there some number, of the uniform procedures for verifying the transport of dangerous freight in road traffic. Again, we have the same story, again we have some rules that may exist somewhere, and may not exist, but it is forgotten, the government of the Republic of Serbia forgets that it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we are laying down regulations for the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, corruption in the Republic of Serbia is high-level at all levels of government. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the assembly majority in this parliament must do everything to prevent good regulations from coming down to a minimum, or not to say that it completely destroys corruption in society. Unfortunately, it's not the government's intention to do that. It is not Boris Tadic's intention to seriously oppose corruption. He uses it, from time to time, as if it were advertised on all the media, and he threatened with his finger; you will see your God. Now I'm seriously going to start standing up to corruption. It only takes as long as that contribution in one of the TV logs. From fighting corruption and crime in Serbia, there is nothing. Since you, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, are one of the ministers we are confident that he is ready to fight and fight corruption and crime, accept this amendment, so you will be sure that at least in this area that he is in your jurisdiction, he will not or at least be prevented from corruption, crime, the creation of a monopoly, the abuse of inspection supervision. It's not the point, and it's not the purpose of inspection surveillance that the inspector can do whatever he wants and control whoever he wants. The purpose of inspection supervision, not only when it comes to this law, but at all, is that the inspector has his jurisdiction absolutely and precisely established by law, and that the inspector only enforces the law, that there is no possibility of an inspector choosing – this, I would not, this I want, I will not, this one paid me, this one did not pay me. Accept this amendment and how much better this law will be than that of its original text, although we claim and repeat more times today, it would be ideal and it would be best if this law were withdrawn from the procedure, not to be adopted like this, because this is a bad law, and the matter it regulates is very serious. The transport of a dangerous burden is something that could have serious consequences for the citizens of Serbia. We've had a lot of examples in the past and in the recent past with agents who, minors, happen every day, and by applying... (President: National MPs, the time available has been used. Thank you. Let me finish. Allow me a sentence. By applying this law, it will not be prevented, but rather there will be more of these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47089	Before I close the search, I ask if he wants a word that hasn't used his right or has time at his disposal. Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Savic came forward as an authorised representative, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47090	Within this little time that I have left as an authorised representative of the SRS under this law, to slowly put an end to the discussion of this law. I will repeat once again that it is a very important and very important law. Any failure in this area can cause inexplicable consequences. These consequences can especially be high, because we are witnessing the development of science and technology and with the development of science and technology, the possibility of incidents, i.e. incidents, as currently said, are growing rapidly. I'm only going to illustrate it by one example. For example, of all the incidents that occurred in the 20th century, one third of these incidents occurred in the last decade of the 20th century. I really don't have the data for the last 10 years of the 21st century, but I believe that these incidents are getting higher and higher. Of course, with their appearance, greater and greater material damage. For example, in the United States in the 20th century, the total damage of these incidents was 38 billion. Of which, almost half happened only in the last decade of the 20th century. Only these indicators, since I don't have time and I don't want any more, say I don't need to get over all this. Unfortunately, we saw here in the discussions of all my colleagues that this is one unprepared and one bad law. We can especially see this if we look at the annex of this law. It is a declaration of compliance with EU rules. When we look at it, we can conclude that almost nothing is consistent. We had plenty of time to at least some things that could be coordinated, to reconcile. The deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts within what we are considering are three or six months. The deadline foreseen for achieving compliance with the EU is 2012. Given how and how this government works, I doubt it, and my experience tells me on the basis of everything similar that neither the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts will be respected nor the deadlines for harmonising our rules with EU rules will be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47091	The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47092	The Honorable President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as always, is once again my honor to participate in the work of Parliament, especially when a law as important as this is being passed. I'd like to apologize immediately to Mrs. Branko Karavidic. Last time I was here, I didn't mention her in the answers to the MPs' questions, and she gave full support to that law and I thank her. So, to remove immediately from the agenda what was crucial in these discussions of MPs. A dangerous burden, I think Mr. Zivanovic was the last one to talk about it, leaves from Vinca on Friday at two o'clock a complete transport of 32 containers with all the accompanying equipment and vehicles. The MUP provides the entire transport by completely shutting down the second type of traffic to Azotara Subotica, i.e. Naumovicov. The MUP determines the location of the overload in Azotara. Railway transport leaves on Saturday morning at six o'clock. The port of Kopar comes from Azotara without delay from Serbia and via Hungary and Slovenia. So in 60 hours from the start of the transport from Vinci, containers must be on board the ship in Koper. As for the other important issues asked by MPs, I know fear and fear of forming new agencies, and I agree with that. I don't agree with firing people, but I'm sure we won't be receiving new people on the first run. Here's the administration's systematization as it looks. All personnel required in the first phase we already have, and I can guarantee by my authority that the new people in the first stage will not be admitted, with these answers to all MPs, especially Mr Savic, the department will also be in Novi Sad, the Užica section will be in Uzic and will be section in Nis. That's how the administration is set up. Of that, what's most important to us, that's this first left-hand side, that's inspectorates, where we're planning on road trafficing 16 inspectors, we already have them, in rail traffic six, in water traffic six, and in air traffic two. Of the other clerks, so to speak, only four are planned. It's a concept of the administration, and I'm asking you to believe that. I'm going in a row. Two amendments have been adopted - Mr Goran Mihajlovic, I thank him, and Mr Vitomir Plužarevic, and I thank him. Today, after this discussion, to go immediately to the only lady who has discussed here among us, Mrs. Verica Radet, I will propose three or four more amendments to the government to adopt them, of course, preferably the procedure that follows. I want to tell Mrs. Radetti right now, that's this amendment to Article 44(1) that's been adopted. As for this second amendment, which she has submitted, I must say, unfortunately, inspection, Mrs Radeta, is being carried out in accordance with the directive, you didn't remember the number, that's the number 95/50 of the European Commission. As for another or two amendments that we can adopt, it is Mr. Nikola Savic's amendment to Article 12, and that would be Mr. Nikola Savic's amendment to Article 27. So, of 19 five. Now I am going to comment briefly, not to hold you back, Mr Maric and Avramovic spoke more about the NATO agreement and these problems. (President: Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but you remain involved, just a stenogram for the sake of it, I would ask you to make it clear, according to the Rules of Procedure, whether you accept amendments on behalf of the Government to Articles 44, 12 and 27. I'd like you to say that. Yes. In addition to the amendments already accepted, I accept three more amendments: Mr Nikola Savic, member 12, Mr Nikola Savic, member 27 and Mrs Verica Radete, member 44. I answer to Mr. Maric and Avramovic, an agreement with NATO was signed in 2005, you said it nicely, but Article 2 and Article 4 defines the obligation for the defence minister and the minister of infrastructure to adopt a regulation that regulates transport closer, which also applies to NATO forces. So we also have to make another document. Mr. Munjic, Article 8 paragraph 2; for damage compensation, Mr. Munjic, is in charge of the Bond Act. Unfortunately, there's nothing we can do about it. Mr Nikola Savic, to Article 9(2) of the systematisation, I have already answered that question, it is envisaged that Nis, Užice and Novi Sad, along with Belgrade, as transport control centres. Mr. Nikola Savic, also, Article 22. The government prescribes a way, Mr Savić, to define the question of the committees in question and hire experts for these commissions. Mr. Radisa Ilic, Article 22(2), defines the content of a programme that includes examination issues, also the same government. Member of the 12th Mr Savic has been accepted. Article 19, Mr. Savic, the security adviser is an employed person and therefore the employer, therefore, the participant in the transport of dangerous cargo, submits a report to him, not a security adviser. He works with whoever hires him. I've already responded to Mr. Peric for Vinci. I thank you for the kind words he has given me, but as a minister, I am subject to every criticism and with special respect accept the criticism of the MPs. Mr. Dejan Mirovic, Article 37(1), staff training has been defined in accordance with Article 2(2) of this Act. Zoran Krasic, in his inspired speech, unfortunately, is not in the O.R., and the skeleton is a means of transport and we also have to fit this into our law. As far as schooling is concerned, as part of our education, we can only talk about two years, not the three that you're proposing. So, schooling has to take a little bit shorter. Milorad Krstin, Article 46(2), police officer is in control under the regulation of Article 6(2), where the procedure is defined and exactly what he is looking at in control. Mr. Petar Jojic's answer – Beovoz, it's always my favorite question, he's not in the O.R., Beovoz is designed and built to serve the citizens of Belgrade and the environment. Of course, the reduction in the number of trains speaks only of the fact that we have not yet completed the entire Pancheva railway project. The Russian loan, which is being negotiated and negotiated these days, defines the railway as one of the projects to be done. Unfortunately, the reduction of the number of trains, so far I have not been familiar with it, will immediately intervene today, it must not be harmful to the citizens of Panchev, nor to the citizens of Indjia or Batajnica, as far as the train goes, they must be the same, that they all have the same status. Of course Beovoz, as he is, benefits all citizens and I thank you for that question, but he will surely find structures in the ministry and the city very soon for that solution. Let me remind you, Mr. Jojic, a new order of driving takes effect on December 15th, and I am sure that this number of trains will be installed in that row, so 20 trains, as it has been until today. Once again, this may not be a topic, it's certainly not a topic, but on Corridor 10, by the way, the work goes by dynamics as it should go. We attacked a 190-mile highway today, which I consider to be a significant success. Our businesses and our citizens and MPs do not worry, everything will be respected by the deadlines. Once again, I thank all the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47093	Eight minutes and 15 seconds, the minister took advantage of the time available to the proposed representative. Is there anyone else answering for a word that hasn't used his right or available time before I close the search? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before I set a break for today's work, on the basis of Article 90(2) and Article 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today even after 1800 hours, that today's break will be set by 14.45 hours, so not the usual one hour, but two, for reasons that require the application of the Rules of Procedure for the afternoon part of the session. The afternoon part of the session is at 14.45 p.m., and we'll begin the discussion in detail on the 16th item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47094	We're continuing our work. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON OBLIGATIONS AND FONDATIONS (specificities) pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assemblys, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in detail of the 16th item of the agenda, the Bill of Deputies and Foundations, next to the representative of the proposer Neboja Bradic, who is absent, here Minister Verica Kalanovic, invited us to attend the sittings of Snezana Stojanović Plasic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Predrag Blagojevic, Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Tatjana Bojić Jurić, head of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Culture. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Nikola Žutić, Milica Vojić Marković, Aleksandra Janković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Sladjan Mijaljević, Zoran Kasalović, Radoslav Mojsilović, Nikola Lazić, Milisav Petronijević, Simo Vušić, Vjerica Radeta, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Konstana Arsenović, Suzana Grubješić, Munir Poturak, Donka Banović, Dragan Slavanka Tabaković, Zorana Milenić, Simo Vuković, Vjerica Radet, Lidija Dimitrivić, Konsta Arsenović, Suzana Grubšić, Monir Poturak,, Tomislav Banović, Tomislav Niković and Juranka Tabaković, Zoranka Tabaković, Zarvanka Antic, Zoran Antic, Zaran Antic, Veroju Žović, Božić, Božić, Božić, Božić, Ibić, Božić and Božić and Božić. You have received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The amendment was written by the MPs: Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic to Article 2 1 and to Article 2(2), who submitted together on 14 October and the correction of those amendments, which were submitted on 15 October, Milisav Petronijevic to Article 3 1 and 3, Sasa Dujovic to Article 12, which is added item 4, Konstantin Arsenovic to article 3. 24th and 25th and together Natasa Vučković and Vesna Marjanović on Articles 25, 68 and 69. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the bill and all the members in which the word "fundation" appears, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Yellow, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47095	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the principle debate, he merely pointed out that such a bill does not deserve to be adopted in the National Assembly. So I suggested that in order to correct the law, eradicating the word "fundation" in all the provisions on foundations, which practically means detaching the institution from the modern foundation, because these are, from the point of view of Serbian tradition and history, incompatible phenomena. The Government's argument states that the amendment to the title is not accepted ''for reasons that it is not a comprehensive separation of legal regulations, i.e. the adoption of specific laws that would regulate the borrowings, or foundations, given that it is related to the legal institutes in which the property communities are based in order to achieve the objectives'. However, in the principle debate, I found that the inauguration is a Serbian historical national and traditional institution of bright tradition, which tries to degrade and humiliate itself with a non-traditional profitable foundation. With the amendment to the Bill's proposal, I therefore proposed that the debtors have their own special law, while the foundation on the other hand should be legally regulated by a special law on foundations, primarily because of the restriction and control of the mass actions of foreign foundations. It should not be forgotten that foreign foundations, which are now dominantly performing in Serbia, are mostly neoliberal, anal ideological orientation. Serbia is dominated today by foreign foundations, which, unfortunately, channel their activities in the opposite direction from the employment activity as a Serbian traditional-cultural historical institution. The activities of foreign foundations are often targeted in the anti-Serbian direction of breaking the traditional and historical in the Serbian people. Furthermore, foreign foundations operating in Serbia are ideological foundations, because they are founded and sponsored by ideological internationals, liberal-democratic, social-democratic, democratic and others, which at the moment work towards further Satanisation and the fight against the elemental survival of the Serb people. On the other hand, to remind the public that in the second half of the 19th and first half of the 20th century, the Serbian elite spread the ideas of Western liberalism to the Balkans, and because of such state orientation, Orthodox Serbs fought to achieve the goals of Western liberal democracies, which in those times were national-liberal, while today we are given the label of a regressive, remethylative and even bloodthirsty, fascisoid people. I had a personal experience of participation in the dialogues of Croatian and Serbian historians, historians organised by the Liberal-Democratic Foundation Friedrich Nauman Stiftung, between 1999 and 2004. Sam, Mr. Friedrich Nauman, who is named after the foundation, has been known in history for his reluctance towards the Serbian people, and his own foundation is directed towards imposing Serbian historical guilt on events in the 20th century, and especially for events in the last 90s wars. So, the Friedrich Nauman Stiftung Foundation has operated and operates from anti-Serbian positions, especially forgeries of the history of the Serbian people and Serbian countries. I was personally invited to dialogue as a special case so-called. a militant Serbian historian, so I had this treatment in our historical societies, even accused of causing my books war on the premises of the Serbian Krajina in Croatia, from Croatian colleagues, regardless of my then first book of national Benigna about Sokoli was published only in 1991. I give you this experience as an illustration of what an anti-Serbian climate government in this foundation. A similar role was played in implementing the process of rehabilitation, in the peaceful reconciliation of Juveniles, and today there is a social-democratic foundation of Friedrich Ebert Stiftung, through which I performed at scientific meetings in Albania. The work of the well-known anti-Serbian US-Hungarian sponsor George Soros doesn't require much talk. The Serbian public is too famous for its funds for anti-Serbian needs. The Neoliberal Foundations are funded by anti-Serbian scientific, cultural and educational projects, such as anti-Serbian textbooks, which impose some of the so-called models. social history. Then, in recent years, historic readings for Southeast Europe have been imposed by Prof. Dr. Dubravka Stojanovic, who exhibited an absurd claim that there are several historical truths. It's possible there's more so-called. ideological and political truths, but it is forgotten that there can only be one truth, and that is an exact scientific and historical truth. The impact of CDU conservative demochrists Foundation Konrad Adenauer, which works in Serbia for the implementation of so-called "the Adenauer" should also be mentioned. multiculturalism, reduction of so-called democratic human rights to the majority Serbian people. However, the leader of CDU Merkel today stands down from the notorious multiculturalism in Germany and this with an open push for the German state of the German people. According to it, the Germans are the only ones who speak German well, therefore, followed by the cleaning of Germany from the gastrayers, especially those of Muslim-Turkish origin. Given the negative experience with the work of foreign liberal and social-democratic foundations in Serbia, it should be particularly careful with the provisions of members of this law that prescribes the work of foreign foundations in Serbia. In the end, I cited these examples to you as an argument for my amendment to see that the employee as a Serbian traditional and national institution of the Serbian people, whose work since 1972 has been regulated only by the Law of Delegation, cannot be regulated by the same law as the foundation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47096	National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm sorry, you wanted to follow the previous amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will speak as an authorised representative of the SRS. What's important for the SRS on this bill is that we advocate the separation of certain categories, and they do not belong to this law. What are these categories, and what are the regulations that are defined by this bill? Namely, the responsibilities, as counterpart Zutic said, are one historical and cultural category in the Serb people that is rooted, has its own historical source and haven and as such must be treated separately from the foundation and funds, which have been defined by a law that is still valid and which will likely be changed by this bill when you adopt it. The SRS pledge goes on a number of grounds, and I'm just going to count some here. First, as I said, the commission represents a tradition in the Serbian people, and in relation to the foundations and funds that represent the financial and legal concept and as such should not be incorporated into the provisions of this law. However, the definition of a legislator, or legislator of this law, is to break all this into one law and then get a distorted picture of the real character of everything that needs to be defined by this law. What the SRS also resents the legislator is that it did not separate the public legal character of the employee and the foundation anywhere in this law, or should we say in charge, because there is plenty of space, there are opportunities, or let's see where the place and the role of the state is, and where is the private-legal character? Unfortunately, it is not separate in this law and it is a mistake of legislation that we are likely to correct in a year with some amendments and additions, etc. That all of this is falsely speaking and certain data that we can find in the Budget Law that defines the place and position of funding of the Ministry of Culture, which has not, by any letter, allocated any means to preserve the cultural heritage, i.e. the debt and all that is related to the borrowing. In addition, it's important to emphasize here what bothers the SRS, it's that you throw out funds as one legal category that was provided for by old law. There's a legal gap. You haven't processed that legal void here, so what happens to the funds in terms of the legal character of that institution. According to the old 1989 law, we had the Law on Indemnities, Foundations and Funds, and now we only have the Law on Indemnities and Foundations. What's going on with the funds? This speaks of a lack of seriousness of the promoter, who has exposed one clean, clear category, legally, economically and financially framed, and left it aside. So much for getting started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47098	Mrs. Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47099	Article 2 of the bill reads - the task within the meaning of this law is a legal person without members. That's in attitude one. And in Section 2, the foundation within the meaning of this law is a legal person without members. The amendment that I submitted on behalf of the DSS is the following – after the word "it is a legal person" the words "no members". It should be a much broader notion than what you've listed here as a legal person without members. What's very strange to me is that it seems that here when there's a law, especially when it comes to amendments, there's never a real minister, and we never have a negotiator for that law. Not only do I find that odd, but I now have an answer to this amendment that I have submitted, which also does not apply to my amendment. Be careful what you wrote to me – the amendment is not accepted for reasons that, unlike other legal entities, founders can, by a founding act, manage the tasks and her work, trust the board of directors, that they have no influence on the work. What I asked you here, I don't know. A concrete example is the duties established by the will. Of course we had in mind that there were duties that were established by the will and that they didn't have to have members, but when you wrote that it was a legal person without members, that means only that. When you write - a legal person, then it means he can have members and he doesn't have to have them. But you wrote that it's the only people who don't have members. Is that possible? Therefore, I believe that the amendment I have submitted must be accepted, because it extends what you have written. The way you wrote your assignments will be without members.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47100	MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47101	I think I only need one brief explanation. And in the debate and in principle I was talking about that, of course, with the full respect of my colleague, Milice Vojić Markovic, there is a misunderstanding of some concepts and essences. The difference between the borrowings and the foundations in relation to the citizens' association is exactly what it is. So, citizens' associations are based on membership and include membership, to exist and function as organisations, and when it comes to responsibilities and foundations, they are based on quite other principles, on the possibility that or some private wealth should be invested in public purposes with a very precise goal or that simply one group of founders should be joined also with the idea of achieving one general goal. That's exactly the point, which is that the responsibilities and foundations are not based on membership, as is the case with citizens' associations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47102	National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47103	My colleague, Milica Vojić Markovic, said earlier that she did not understand the very reason she received for not accepting the amendment. I don't understand either. I expected the culture minister to sit here, Mr. Bradic, so since neither he nor I are experts, we are not lawyers, that the director will give a better explanation to the psychologist than the minister who becomes a multipractice. I'm sorry, but you're really here about everything. I don't know if you can explain to me what this is really about. So, the essence of the amendments that I have submitted was that, when we talk about employment is actually philanthropy and it's about organizations that can't possibly be established for the chemical cleaning of biographies of some private persons or of legal persons with private interests, the point is to simply erase that part that would relate to the possible privacy and privatization of such employees. So, making for reasons that are certainly not humanitarian. I don't really understand the government's explanation I got. I studied Latin at school, but I don't understand these legal formulations, and I'd like Mr. Bradic, with the directorial experience, to have it interpreted to me in a stagelike way. The explanation says this - the amendment is not accepted, because the possibility of setting up a task and for private purposes, provided for by the provisions of Article 2(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is not accepted. The bill, it's a newspaper in our legal system. Now here's an explanation of why it's a newspaper. It is a solution adopted in most EU countries (Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, etc.) and which can be defended and intensified by the interpretation of Article 1. The first Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees the right to enjoy property peacefully. No reason of public interest is recognised to justify the ban on the establishment of duties for private purposes. On the other hand, the bill contains a series of restrictions, which prevents possible abuses (I have not seen how) of the establishment and operation of such tasks: an asset acting in the private interest does not enjoy any tax relief; it cannot directly carry out business activities etc. He says this: since Roman law, there is a difference between the association as a community of members and the debt (and the foundation) as a community of assets. This difference has its very important legal implications, especially when it comes to their management structure. This explanation is written in that spirit of Croatian new talk – the ocular pantologe. What the legislator really meant to say was, I don't know, but what I do know is that using the task for private purposes and for the real chemical cleaning of biography will be something that is far beyond any essence of Serbian employment. So, I don't know the appearances of the Serbian employee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47104	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs Svetlana Stojanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47105	I'm reporting as an authorised promoter. Col. Milan Dimitrijevic submitted an amendment to the same content, i.e. to delete the words "or private interest". The establishment of a task in order to achieve private interest is indeed a newspaper in our legal system. Proposer i.e. The government is calling for comparative practice and lists countries such as Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, Bulgaria and Denmark. I really don't know what these countries' laws look like and what they want by introducing this institute into their legal system, but what I see is that in our law on responsibilities and foundations, the responsibilities to establish private interest are mentioned in Articles 2, 3, 8, 36 and 54. From these members, honestly, I'm not able to figure out what kind of charity that might be, any act of self-interest in schooling my own children, for example. Why doesn't someone who has money educate their children like the rest of the world? The proposing representative, who was present this morning at the Committee on Culture that we held, gave me an explanation that the tasks set up to achieve private interest cannot be used either by tax relief or by applying for budget funds, as I assumed in my opening statement, in the debate on the law in principle, thinking that this was the proposed intention. The further explanation of the Government's representatives was – in Articles 7, 45 and 46, this type of debt, which they work for personal or private interest, is not mentioned, but only those in charge of the general interest. Look, we're introducing a new institute into our legal system and defining it through non-conforming. Why we're introducing them, I still don't know, but so much uncertainty has left me so much room to doubt that there are any potential abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47106	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Mr. Žutić wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of the public, I quote the first position of Article 2. The bill: ''The task, within the meaning of this law, is a legal person without members to whom the founder has committed certain assets for the sake of good performance of a general purpose or of private interest, i.e. an objective which is not prohibited by the Constitution or by law. '"There's something out of the ordinary here. The term "good guy" is used, I guess it's right to say benevolence. At least that should fix it. If Article 2 bears the title "Employment and Foundation", the logical conclusion is that it is necessary to formulate the definition of the task, which is not the government's proposal for text. However, by amendment to Article 2. The SRS has proposed that the addition and the language change be made to the first position of the member be carried out by the following wording: ''Employment, i.e. the foundation is a cultural and historical and traditional institution of exceptional national-humanitarian importance, which was intended by the founder to achieve a general purpose, i.e. a goal which is not prohibited by the Constitution or by law. ''The addition and modification of the first position of Article 2 highlights the historical and traditional importance of Serbian employment in relation to the concept of the foundation, which implies an institution of foreign origin, as I said, for contemporary European democratic and liberal societies. In its explanation, the government stressed that ''the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the term 'cultural and historical and traditional institution' does not have a precise legal connotation, nor does it express the essence of the Institute of Employment. In our legal system, the term "institutions" refers to a special status-legislative form: a public-law person entrusted with the exercise of certain public powers rather than to the task as a private legal person. ''The government's argument for refusing this amendment is legal formalism. Generally, SRS arguments are not adopted that the employee should be a cultural and historical and traditional institution. By the way, the concept of an institution for responsibilities, which is formally-legal arguments you deny, has been used in all the laws of the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, so I think that the modern government should stick more to traditionalism, according to the reputation of the world's most traditional people, the British, or the English. The next objection by the Government to the amendment is that this change narrows the foundation's jurisdiction to cultural and historical and national-humanity purposes only. However, my argument to the next Article 3 will show that the SRS does not narrow the objectives and tasks of the employee only to the above mentioned, but also to scientific, cultural, educational, social, health and other objectives.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47108	Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47109	Madam President, Madam Minister, this amendment by my colleague, Sladjan Myajević, and what Professor Žutic was saying, I will specifically argue with one example, unfortunately, the sad images and mirrors of our society under your authority. I am sorry that today is not the culture minister Nebojsa Bradic, because he is directly responsible, along with the prime minister of the state, as well as the President of the Republic, that the most famous cultural and historical buildings and the debt of one period in our country today are in such a poor state. In addition to everything we talked about in the principle debate, when we listed to you the destroyed not only monuments of culture, but our sanctity at the occupied KiM, the Old Building in Arangelovac, in yours and my Šumadija, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, is today one of the biggest mockerys of this government and the state of Serbia. For what? Because the destruction of the Old Building, which was a symbol of Europeanization, as you like to say, Serbia, but not now that NATO and Brussels are setting up directives for you, when Dežer and others are coming to you, line you up and these unfortunate, SRS apostates, but at a time when Prince Milos Obrenovic, who is like the founder of the city of Arangelovac and the famous Mondean spa in Europe of that time, made the Old Building, imagining at that time, and that's back in 1865, to be the Assembly of the Principality of Serbia. But later, when from a short period of the capital of my Kragujevec Parliament was moved to Belgrade, where it is today and today, then the Old Building was opened as a ballroom, before the world of the princes' hall for gathering statesmen and diplomats, not this time when they come to train you, telling you that not far from the Old Building in Arangelovac, in the Ethno-site of Baik you are chasing and giving a bribe of 10m euros to a famous Serbian general, but in a period when everyone respected Serbia and the Serbian people because we first got rid of 500 years of Turkish slavery, but because we are a heroic people and because we have our pride and our dignity. This cultural historical monument and the debt of the Obrenović dynasty was robbed today, destroyed, and in the campaign ahead of the local elections, in April of this year, Nebojsa Bradic, the culture minister took pictures on several occasions, even at one point in the middle of the campaign, there was a fire in the Old Building building, where the walls were wet, where fortunately this cultural and historical treasure, primarily a piano played by famous world masters, pianists, during the bales and the ceremony that the prince made there, as well as certain artistic paintings that people there managed to save. And for what? Well, because you're responsible, because by judgment as well as after World War II, of course, that's what Broz and the communists did, but confirmed by the 2005 District Court ruling in Kragujevac, the Old Building belongs to the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate and is under direct patronage as a monument of culture, and once the responsibility of Obrenovic, under the authority of this irresponsible Republic government. Why is that happening? Why don't you care about keeping what is our tradition, and what we want differently, and Mr. Mijaljević suggests that, by amendment to Article 2, that we define? To warn you that all people, intellectuals from that small community, if so we can call the Arangelovac, as well as all people who are cultural followers and historians, as Professor Žutić and his colleagues and many others raised themselves, gave their voice and made a film that was sent to UNESCO, which is called "Spain or SOS for the Old Building". But as the campaign ended, they were spending half a million euros there with Cannet's money, as they promised to reconstruct, if they came to power, the Old Building. But the money the criminals spent, the government didn't put together, but you who did, you let us wait, it's winter, although it's still a good time, but every day it can hit a kiameth. The young gentleman who sits next to our secretary of state, and sometimes our colleague, what's funny to you? I thought that was the last time you were having a day like this, that was 10 days ago, that you got up so early this morning and that it was funny to you all that day, but this is symptomatic, you still find everything funny today. I really don't know what's funny about the situation when I'm talking about a symbol of Serbia, a symbol of a time in which we were appreciated and respected by the whole of Europe, unlike today, when we're being torn apart by the state, when we're occupied by the southern province, when they introduce everything that the people can't stand, it's funny to you. Last time I tried, believe me, you're so insignificant in my life, someone told me your name and last name, I don't know your name, but a guy with a laugh, that's amazing. As for this serious subject and fact, I will try to show you that the condition of the Old Building, this famous castle chandelier that exists only in that building, which is made of the smallest crystals, which is surrounded by four other truly beautiful chandeliers of this romantic style, as is the entire building of the architecture of that time and the famous architect of the Czech student, our origin, who has performed the projection. So, there's no chandeliers today. We can't make it. We can't return more than 30 famous art paintings stolen from the Old Building, but that's why you, gentlemen of power, could from the moment you put together a local government in Arangelovac to this day to create an entire roof, not just 25% of the roof, to replace the glass. Why is that a problem, at least that's what it's got? Let's see what's up with the carpentry. Why is it a problem for you to have a guard or a guard to guard the Old Building? This exhibit, I think, supported by one example of sad, by this extraordinary amendment submitted by my colleague, Mijaljević, to finish with the quote by writer and master Ivan Zlatkovic, who at one time, where he appealed, along with his colleagues and historians, to protect the Old Building, said: "By our participation in this action, we become a great spiritual brotherhood that does not rest with the death of something that has lived in the heart of all the Arangels and all the people who once crossed its threshold." I can say that I am proud that one of the first promotions of a book that is a symbol of what we are fighting for, and a symbol of the existence of our party and the life of our imprisoned president, and the ideology of Serbian nationalism promoted precisely in the building of the Old Building, when it was still possible. But as time passes, I am increasingly less convinced that the symbol of the Old Building will wake you from the obvious dream you are in and you do not see that the cultural, national and historical treasure is the future of our children and the future and the symbol of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47110	National MP Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Predrag Mijatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47111	I'd like to re-advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. This charming blonde who spoke before me... Yeah, yeah, I recognized myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47112	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47113	I would ask you, the word "apostasy" in Serbian in such connotation is peorative and you have allowed one such term to be used for 21 MPs in this assembly and several tens of thousands of members, as many as our party has. I think that this is how the dignity of the Assembly and the dignity of the 21 MPs here, by calling them a peorative name - an apostate. I can agree, we did split up, the SRS split into two parts, bigger and smaller, the one we belong to is bigger, and the other one is smaller. I wouldn't call that name, but, please, the word apostate in connotation used by a blonde before me is pejorative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47114	Mr. MP, to the great satisfaction of all of us, the organized time of conflict between the former and current radicals is far away in this House from us and I would not update it, so before you used yourself in a transferable sense of a particular formulation that also does not go in favour of the parliamentary group, nor can we say that your way of advertising the Rules of Procedure is in line with the tendency to take care of the dignity of the Assembly. Mr. Predrag Mijatovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47115	I don't know why you explained this this way. I didn't add any epithet to the blonde's decry and I don't know why you figured it out like that, there's a lot of blondes here. At the moment, I forgot what the lady was called, so I had to say so. Therefore, I had no intention of insulting any lady who had yellow hair.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47116	Please, speak again of the same content and please do not put me in a position to impose sanctions. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 3. I propose that the bill be added after the words "focused on promotion and protection" to the words "national and traditional values of the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia". Following those national tasks and activities, it is normal for other activities listed in the Government's proposal for Article 3 to follow. However, the Government's argument states that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons already mentioned in Article 3 which states that the achievement of the general objective is to be considered, in addition to those listed, and other activities which bring about general objectives and interests. I would ask Mr. Minister Bradic, whom he does not have, unfortunately, to find in my first paragraph of Article 3 of the formulation that I suggested to be inserted into the quoted place of the first paragraph. Otherwise, my proposed version of the amendment is a milder variant, and it is not accepted by the government either. In my opinion, the existing formulation of Article 3. The bill is a language-based, grammatically irregular, inconclusive and inconsistencies with regard to the first plan of some new non-history, parallel objectives in relation to the primary Serbian national and civil objectives and European traditional objectives, namely the traditional and national objectives of the majority nation. For the sake of the public, I must quote that, according to the bill, Article 3 is firstly the general objectives of the employment, you can imagine, these activities are aimed at promoting and protecting human, civil and minority rights, then promoting democratic values, European integration and some international understanding, sustainable development, and even regional development, I would better call it – the federalisation of Serbia, at the end of even gender equality. Only after these epochal key activities for the government, which are the result of the European dictatorship, come for them secondary activities, it is for writers of this bill, such as improving social and health protection, promoting culture, and then ultimately science, education and art. So, this amendment puts first the formulation of the key task activity, the preservation of the nation and the tradition of the Serbian people, as well as the citizens of Serbia. That's why I'm finally in my amendment to Article 3. The bill put first in the task activities promotion and protection of the national and traditional values of Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, universal European traditional and democratic values, promotion and popularisation of science, education, culture, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47118	MP Mirko Munjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, here is the amendment by Professor Žutić to the fact that the position of this government towards everything that is Serbian, which is national, which is traditionally, is extremely negative. That, in my opinion, is the basic reason for not accepting this amendment. In this country, Madam Minister, over time, certain nadal rules are being established, some of the most radical values. For example, the principle is established in this country that a protected witness is more important than a Serbian hero. It is established that the money of a criminal trying to wash his conscience is much more important than one of Ilia Kolarac's employees or a large Serb employee. Recently, the wife of one of the biggest criminals in these areas answered the question of how much money, how much capital, and you didn't ask me how much money we gave for churches, to build churches and rebuild monasteries? That's what we're talking about. But there's a brighter example. For life, the already retired patriarch, Serbian Mr. Paule, refused to accept the money of one, as you call it, a businessman or a controversial businessman, although they have much more adequate names, refused money to build the St. Sava temple in Belgrade. The preservation of the national and traditional values of the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as requested by this amendment, must take care of two basics – the preservation of Serbian traditional values and cultures, and secondly, of the general interest. So, about the interest of the whole society, not individuals or individual groups. Because it is in absolute dissension with the goal this law should have, therefore, which foundations and responsibilities should have. In his time, James Wuzley, as former head of the CIA and later president of an American foundation, forced only one group of people to give them money and finance them here in Serbia, funded them with American taxpayers' money. But it could not possibly have been the goal required by this amendment to promote and protect the national values of the Serbian people. On the contrary, it was in one clear and unequivocal goal, aimed at the US administration. So they're funded by America to enslave this country economically, to lead to total economic and political dependence, and then to debt slavery. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, it's not them, I mean the United States, like you of today's government. They don't live from today to tomorrow. When it comes to their policy, every dollar they make is in full agreement with centuries of politics, including the Vatican, when it comes to these spaces. There's no dilemma. That's why this amendment is not accepted. He mentions Serbian national and traditional values, which has become heresy in this assembly. You can mention everything, you can talk about everything, you can talk about the interests of an Indian-Pakistan subcontinent, but no Serbian national interests. It's a taboo theme for this assembly. It is becoming increasingly difficult to show love for its country, for its homeland, for its people, but we will do so despite everything. We Serbian radicals will do so as long as we last. To this we are bound, for one thing, by the ideology of Serbian nationalism as a fundamental ideology of the SRS and, secondly, by the heroic struggle of our President Vojislav Seselj in The Hague, who, despite all the alas of this country and the world, defends Serbian national interests, Mrs. Ministers, breaks the indictment and the freak political and legal formations you call The Hague court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47120	The 3rd amendment was filed by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Martinovic and MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47121	Article 3, the title above it reads: "Citizenships, responsibilities and foundations". Now Article 3 begins, first position: "By achieving a general objective, within the meaning of this law, activities aimed at promoting and protecting human, civil and minority rights, promoting democratic values, European integration and international understanding, sustainable development, regional development, gender equality, improving social and health protection, promoting and improving culture, promoting and popularising science, education, art and amateur sport, improving the situation of persons with disabilities, caring for children and young people, helping the elderly, protecting the environment, combating corruption, protecting consumers, protecting animals, humanitarian and other activities – it is interesting that humanitarian activities are behind animal protection – other activities that bring about the jobs and foundations of general interest. Of course there is no national interest, it is completely forbidden in this congregation. Let's say they consider activities aimed at promoting and protecting human, civil and minority rights, promoting democratic values. Please, what are the values of European integration? I just don't know what those values are. I'd like someone to give me at least one of those values so I can say yes, you're right or you're wrong. What's amazing now is the answer you wrote. The amendment is not accepted because the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the European Union is an undeniable priority. Whose, excuse me? That's the mantra you've been telling us since 2008, that the European Union has no alternative. I just can't understand that you don't follow what's going on in Serbia, research shows up, yesterday I was talking about one that's somehow not mentioned in this assembly. You've had a chance to talk about promoting European values. But you completely mutilated that idea. You've mutilated this idea by being completely one puppet state that doesn't take care of itself, doesn't care about the national interests of this country and tells a mantra that doesn't mean anything. I'm sorry, what are the values of European integration? What are those values? Are they anything different from democratic values? Are they different from international understanding? What are these simple European integrations? The values of European integration. It's just, I don't see here, that we don't talk about what you've all given priority in this string of your values, what's a priority, and what's not a priority, what's not mentioned at all. I'm sorry, you're going so far out here, you're quoting the concepts just for the sake of order, and they don't mean anything. I would like to hear from Mrs Kalanovic, what do we do, she came to defend the law, what are the objectives of European integration, promoting the objectives of European integration? What difference does this make between democratic values and international understanding?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47122	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this bill of law, there are a whole series of problems, and this bill of law has put in place a complete legal and termological confusion when it comes to the regulation of this matter. Let's go back to the etemological origin of the word "indemnity." And what the word "indemnity" meant in the Serbian medieval state, because we took over the concept of indemnity from the German era. Who could have started the task at the time? The commission could have formed a purely physical person. The word "requirement" has, above all, spiritual, or religious meaning. To do something for your soul, to save your soul -- to raise a church, a monastery, to help the sick, to help the unsatisfactory, etc. When you read the bill, then you do not realize at all what the debt under this bill has to do with the duties known to the Serbian medieval state. It is said here that the debt represents a legal person without members, in which the founder has purposed certain assets for the sake of well-being of the general objective or of private interest. If you had said something like this at the time of Emperor Dushan, this would be heresy. So, setting up a task, something for your soul for private interest, that was completely incompatible. You make a monastery, or when you build a church, or when you make a trip to a place, or when you help patients, or widows, or poor people, and there is no realisation of private interest. It's for saving your soul. So what the bill says has nothing to do with the original Serbian meaning of the word "requirement." So, the task force, if we're going to respect Serbian tradition, can establish a purely physical person. In medieval law, duties were normally established by natural persons, emperors, or certain feudal masters. Based on the legal person's responsibility, it's now some innovation, which you failed to fully implement through the entire text of the bill. What's the foundation after you? This is said – a legal person without members and basic property. I don't think the government of the Republic of Serbia knows what the concept of a legal person means, nor does it know what the word "propriety" means. Just because one subject is a legal person means that he has some rights and obligations. What is property, in the original sense? Well, it's a set of rights and obligations. You understood the concept of property in the layman's everyday meaning of that word. For you the property is some material object-money, paper of value, some thing etc. In the legal sense of that word, property is a set of rights and obligations. How can something exist like a legal person without having rights and obligations? How can he even be a legal entity? It can't be done. This bill of law with a purely theoretical aspect is completely pointless. Next, how can there be a foundation without a basic property? Apparently, its existence should serve some general purpose. So how do we achieve that purpose without property? The existing law on borrowings, foundations and funds is much better regulated by this matter than this matter will be regulated by this law. The foundation must have some property. It simply cannot exist without property, even without this so-called underlying property that needs to achieve these general objectives. These general objectives are in the public interest both in the debt and in the foundation. They can't be private loans, in terms of realising some private interests. If private interests were to be realised, then the question arises -- why would this matter be regulated by law at all, as my private interests were not regulated by law, or by Ms. Minister, or by Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, so that the realisation of the private interests of a legal person should not be regulated by the law on borrowings and foundations. What is the fundamental difference between the debt and the foundation, or what should be the difference, that you specifically formulated the bill? Not because the employee has property, and the foundation doesn't. He's also in charge, and there's a foundation. Otherwise, the foundation couldn't exist as a legal person. There's a difference in the founder. The founder of the task may be, if we are to respect the tradition and if we are to make a fundamental distinction between the task and the foundation, in that the task can only be established by a natural person, and the foundation can establish both a physical and legal person, and of course the achievement of private interests in both the employment and the foundation, should be completely eliminated, because then it is not a public interest, it is not a matter of public law and should not be regulated at all by any particular law. What creates further doubt, what the Government actually wanted to say by this bill, will be clear to you, ladies and gentlemen Members, if you read the argument of the Government why it does not accept certain amendments. For example, I had a characteristic explanation of why the Government did not accept an amendment which, if I am not mistaken, was submitted to Article 2 by Mr Zoran Kasalovic, so among other things, the Government called for a Roman legal tradition, so it is said that the foundation implies, as well as the debt, the community of property "universitas rerum" – community of things. And you're saying in article 2, the foundation is a legal person with no members and no assets. So what kind of community of property is it without the basic property? It's a complete mess. The government, if it wants to regulate this matter consistently and well, should withdraw this bill. This is a set of nonsense, which absolutely means nothing and which will in practice cause a whole series of problems. Now something about my amendment. I think, Mrs. Kalanovic, that the government doesn't seem to know the difference between political parties and borrowings. The political parties aim, ladies and gentlemen, to promote and protect human, civil and minority rights. Promoting democratic values, European integration and international understanding, sustainable development, regional development, gender equality, improving social and health protection. Only out there as the 15th objective of the task is to specify what is, in fact, the real goal of the employment and the foundation, which is to improve culture, promote and popularise science, education, art, etc. So, without any need, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is one humanitarian, one, if you will, social and religious categories, such as responsibilities and foundations, without any need to politicise. It comes down to politicisation in terms of day-to-day policy. You know, it's cheap pathetic when you say that the debt is founded to promote European integration. It doesn't mean anything. Tell me one man in the Republic of Serbia who founded the task to promote European integration. Neither is there, and it is difficult to find such an individual or a legal person who will use some money to promote European integration. Who promotes European integration in Serbia? Some political parties, mahogany ruling but also not ruling, and would like to come to the government and individual NGOs financed by foreign states or foreign international government or non-governmental organisations. So, connecting the task in terms of doing something to save your soul with the day-to-day political structure of European integration is really funny. Of course, it is particularly funny to talk about European integration today when the EU is nibbled in problems. I have the impression that the government of the Republic of Serbia is acting like a man suffering from autism, not seeing at all what's going on around it. It's a complete mess in Europe. The other day, European Council President Herman van Rompei says – if the Eurozone fails, the EU fails. Germany has already prepared an iron broom to clean up these countries that have a bad economy because they violate the stability of the euro. This spring and this summer, when Greece was in debt to the throat, what the Germans told them – you have no money, gentlemen, sell the islands. These are European values. There's no free lunch there. There's no love there. There's no solidarity there. There's nothing there that you claim to have. I don't know if you know what's going on in Ireland. Ireland is facing bankruptcy and the question is when will the bankruptcy be made public. Same scenario. Read these British economic analysts, they say – the same scenario threatens to hit Spain and Portugal. People don't know what to do with their problems. See the degree of dissatisfaction with Hungary's EU membership with the citizens of Hungary. Two-thirds would now like Hungary to leave the EU. Have you read some day's research, where the largest dose of Eurofanatism in the Balkans dominates. You know where? In Montenegro and Albania. Anyone who knows anything, anyone who monitors international economic and financial flows, knows that the EU has absolutely no use for Serbia. The question is whether the EU will survive during this time period that you designed to introduce Serbia into the EU. So, let the EU aside, put the day-to-day policy aside and let go of that cheap political pathetic. There are no laws without the government of the Republic of Serbia saying it is not done because of some European integration. Well, you haven't said Euro-Atlantic integration yet. You have not yet predicted that the task could be established and that NATO's objectives and the bombing of other states and occupations of other countries could be promoted. So the bill is bad, from a theoretical point of view, from a historical point of view, from a political point of view, because it imposes duties and foundations on promoters of something that is unrealistic, which is irrational, which is ultimately harmful to Serbia and its citizens. Since you have stated in Article 3 that responsibilities and foundations are primarily set up to promote European integration, a practical question arises – will the Republic of Serbia be able to function in responsibilities and foundations that do not advocate European integration or even those that openly promote some other political, or foreign policy course of Serbia, which has nothing to do with European integration. Does this mean that they will be disabled in their operation because you say they cannot function those duties and foundations whose aim is contrary to the Constitution and the law. If you prescribe the law, and you will seem to prescribe it, that debt and foundations are set up to promote European integration, and that means that there cannot be an asset that does not promote this goal because it is contrary to the applicable law, the Law on Indemnities and Foundations, which is pointless. There is no need, therefore, Mrs Kalanovic, to politicise an institution that is in charge of Serbia, which has a truly bright and positive tradition. Don't forget, we're abdicating our duties today, in the original sense of that word. It did not occur to anyone in the Middle Ages to form a task to promote any European or anti-European integration, simply, people did not think in this context, the responsibilities were formed exclusively in general, in humanitarian, in spiritual, in realising spiritual goals and spiritual needs, to help those who were hard to live at that time. It is hard to make churches and monasteries, hardly to make medieval hospitals and schools, roads, hardly anyone to help the unsolicited, if there were no Serbian emperors, or feudal masters who did so, not in the private interest, but in the public interest. We're in charge of these duties today. Instead of legally forming the concept of debt in the spirit of the Serbian medieval tradition, you will now form some responsibilities that absolutely no one will be able to raise, which will not mean anything, eventually, will only serve to wash the money quickly and that someone really realizes their private interests because you, in the end, have made it possible for him to do so. So the smartest thing that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do right now is to withdraw this senseless law from the assembly procedure, to hire people who really understand the essence of the duties and foundations and to enter into the assembly procedure a much more high-quality bill, which will indeed be, as our ancestors would say, on the general side of all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47124	Twelve minutes of the parliamentary group's time has been used. National MP Simo Vukovic has a word, so the National MP Vesna Marijanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47125	Dear Mrs Kalanovic, Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, the whole set of previous amendments that we discussed, including this Mr Martinovic, essentially shows that we here speak from different and political and ideological positions, but what will be a big problem for us and until the end of this search is that the group represented by Mr Martinovic, sometimes seems to me, is absolutely speaking from the position of the 18th and 19th centuries. So I can understand and know what you said, the etemological aspect of words for the soul, but if you're trying to pass on experience from medieval Serbia into the current legislation, then we don't understand each other deeply. This law is also important and valuable because in one area which is pressed with one discontinuity and deeply compromised in Serbia, it has practically died and in this present-day form it cannot produce the fruits it is expected to produce. So this law puts a zero point, or we try to rehabilitate a philanthropic idea in Serbia. Mr. Krassic, just let me finish. (President: Please do not address participants directly at the session. ) It is mentioned here that the introduction as a general objective of European integration is problematic for some parliamentary groups and MPs. That, Mr. Krassic, you think. That's what it turned out to be. (President: National MP, please do not address the other participants directly.) I will warn the MP Krasic. ) I ask you to allow me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to speak. So, European integration itself means regulating property relations in this country. For me, as MEP G17 plus, it is not possible to further tolerate the withdrawal of borrowing property, which exists in Serbia. So we want to solve this problem through the adoption of this law. If you consider it a good previous legal solution, which today has led us to what we have with our duties and foundations, then it will also be assessed by the citizens. Chairman, I would like to draw attention to the fact that here one of the previous speakers has made a very serious finding that, despite the democratic atmosphere, cannot be said as easily, which is that the current government in Serbia is qualified as a puppet. I ask you not to tolerate such qualifications in the future, regardless of the freedom of speech, because we live and work in an independent and sovereign state and that we do not have to listen to such qualifications in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47126	Three minutes have been used by the MP's group. You are right to object, second time feel free to exercise your right under Article 103, and we will discuss whether the chairman violates or does not violate the Rules of Procedure, allowing or not allowing inadmissible expressions in the Serbian Parliament. Now he has the word MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the impression that Mr. Simo Vukovic did not understand me in the best way. So, from a political point of view, Mr. Vukovic, it's perfectly legitimate and I can understand that your political party advocates European integration, and that's legitimate. It's legitimate for one political party, but not for the task. So, if you're going to identify the employee and the political party, there's no need for two laws, because one law regulates the work of political parties, and another the work of officials. The aim of our amendment was not only to compromise with you whether Serbia should join the EU, but in the end, we will not decide either you or I individually, but to point out to you the problem that exists essentially in this bill, that you are politicizing in a rather cheap and trivial way something, or that in Serbian tradition has a really great role, a religious, historical, scientific, artistic value. So if the Middle Ages were formed by the principles by which you will now form them, in accordance with the spirit of daily politics, imagine if Unicef would put any of our monasterys under his protection? It would not, because these churches and these monasteries and our responsibilities contained the cultural heritage of all mankind, and that is the heritage of all mankind, both Christians and non-Christians. The term "indebted" carries something in it that represents universal value. You have brought such a conjecture to the institution of daily politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47128	Two minutes was used. Now he has the right to the replica Simo Vukovic, you've been reported, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47129	As I predicted, we have this one wall that divides us in terms of understanding what we want. So if we understand today a time in which we can't allow a corporation and a company to set up a task, but maybe we'll base ourselves on it and think that it can be done by an archaeologist or a bishop, then we're in a big problem. We need to recognize what 21st century demands are, what borrowing is in modern European flows. I think that law is consistent and that we can implement it and finally, and I think that we will find ourselves at that point, to restore the 1,000-year tradition of borrowing in Serbia. This is our joint task, and I think we will implement it through this law, and perhaps Mr. Martinovic will understand it when it is fully implemented in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47130	National MP Milica Vojić Markovic and Vesna Marjanović, and Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47131	I would use the right to replicate because I am the People's MP. Mr. Vukovic called me. [[President: You do not have the right to reply.]] (President: You can use the time of the parliamentary group. I will be very specific why I used the word - puppet. Nothing persuasive or anything, and I'm only going to give you two arguments because I think we can talk about this for 20 minutes at a time. The assembly and these MPs had a motion for a resolution that was meant for Serbia to face the UN. Did it come before this assembly, did it come before the UN? No, it's completely changed. It's changed somewhere else. We don't want to talk about whether it's in agreement with this or that, but not in agreement... (President: Please stick to the agenda and talk about the amendment. I'm talking about the amendment. All right, I'll talk my way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47132	The time used is a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47133	I also wanted to say something about this dilemma or about this question, whether promoting European integration can be set as a common goal in the formation of responsibilities or foundations and I must admit that I am surprised because it is about parties that have a political position in their programme that Europe has an alternative, which is completely legitimate. On the other hand, I am surprised that they want from one law, which allows citizens to join around a goal, to make it impossible for them to join together and form a task and foundation, to not be promoted by European integration. If we know that back in the past how many years in all public opinion polls, the percentage of citizens' support for Serbia's European integration has never fallen below 60%, that this coalition has won the last election right on the platform of European integration, it is absolutely unimaginable that such an idea cannot be a common goal. The question has been raised whether this is an imposition, and this is not a provision that imposes goals at all, but lists them to the greatest extent possible. So it's an open list. Of course, duties and foundations can be formed with different objectives, provided that these objectives do not violate the constitution and the applicable laws in this country. As far as I'm concerned, I think it is important that we stress this and stress that there are certain European values that we share as a country that belongs to that continent and I hope that we will soon be candidates for EU membership. So it's about the values of peace, the functioning of the rule of law, the multiculturality, the involvement in a common society, many other values that we often talk about in debates in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47134	Two minutes and 10 seconds of time spent by representatives of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47135	Exposing my predecessors in the best possible way confirms that our views are correct. As soon as we, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, talk about the draft law on borrowings and foundations, we mention words such as: percentages, elections, public opinion research, the EU, this means that we are on the field of day-to-day policies. What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia want with this law? Whether he wants to deal with day-to-day politics or wants to arrange institutions, responsibilities and foundations, so that they really serve their essential purpose, that they achieve certain goals. These general objectives should be minimised by day-to-day political connotations, both European and anti-European. Of course, I have to replicate what Mr. Vukovic said, he probably made a slip. Mr. Vukovicu, there is no archimandritt and no bishop who formed any monastery, they manage the monasteries, but the monasteries were founded by world rulers. Tell me, one of the archaeologists who founded some monastery? There's no one here. Another world ruler founded a church and a monastery, so he trusted the church to care for these religious institutions. The Founder was always a natural person and always came, as a rule, if we talk about the Middle Ages and the Right, that physical face was either a ruler or a lower feudal political scale. Why do we insist on etemology? Because wisdom has taught us from ancient times that names actually have meaning in them. Remember, Mr. Vukovic, what the old Latina said - nomen est omens, the name is meaning. How can a legal person form a task force? The word "indemnity" comes from words – to be given for the soul. How a legal person can have his soul. If you wanted some other non-religious concept of duty, which is legitimate, then you should have changed your name, so that you completely gave up the Serbian medieval heritage, because you're talking about a task outside the context of religion and beyond the context of spirituality, no matter how terrible it seems to you at the beginning of the 21st century, at a time of aggressive materialism and secularism, but it really is. So it's legitimate that you want to form an institution that doesn't have a religious context, but then don't call it a debt, because it's just funny. You know, the very words indicate that this institution has first and foremost to do with Christian religion and Christian spirituality. The borrowing issue is the last place where we should now prepare for whether Serbia should or should not join the EU. You say you should, we say you shouldn't, but those are political parties' views. This should not burden institutions such as debt. What we want to tell you is that your political goals are legitimate and we are fighting them and we do not support them, but it has nothing to do with the matter of the task and the matter of the foundation, they should serve another purpose, and the political parties are the ones that need to promote European or other integration. Please don't politicize institutions that don't deserve it. Our society is too politicized. The daily policy has entered the family, the school, the university, the workplace, the kindergartens, there's no place to go, let's get more in charge, let's get into churches, let's get into monasteries, and then we as a nation and as a state, Mr. Vukovic, we finish our historic mission.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47136	Four minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47137	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, would not share my opinion that there are no archaeologists and monks of the monastery and that the monasteries in the Serbian Orthodox Church and throughout the Orthodox world have been founded exclusively by world rulers. Serbia is filled with monasteries founded not only by the people of the governmental families, the people of the noble soybeans, but also by monasteries, the igumans of other monasteries, the archaeologists. I can list here for hours, from the Mosinian holy mountain of Krushevec, founded by monks of sinites, escaped after the Turkish conquest of Constantinople, and then via the monastery of St. Stefan in Lipovac, with Alexinac, who founded the monk inok German, a monastery dedicated to transfiguration, etc. There's no need for us to go in there and transfer this debate to that field. It's simply known facts in history, in art history, in architecture, in archaeology, and there's a lot of these monasteries. Some of these monasteries live today, some don't live. Here we were talking about borrowing, as a tradition in the Serb race, the Serbian people, among Serbian citizens, and there is really no need to put confusion between voters and citizens in this way, because Serbia is full of monasteries and examples of these monasteries raised by monks. Especially after the fall of Constantinople and after Turkey's conquest of the Council, the arrival of the monks in Serbia resulted in an enormous number of monasterys. I am telling all this truth for the sake of this, that there is no confusion among the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47138	Two minutes of MP time was used. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems we have now come to the field of pure theology. Of course, I'm not theologian, nor do I think I know much about this subject, but let me say something with this humble wisdom and the modest knowledge that I have to say that would be a replica of Mr. Milivojevic's exposure. So, Mr. Milivoevich, in theological sense, we're talking about the church. Remember what the Lord Jesus Christ said in the New Testament: "Where are two or three gathered together in my name, there I am with them." In theological sense, as soon as two or three men or women are in one place, in order to confess the same faith, it's a church, it's a monastery. I'm not talking about monasteries and churches in this deepest theological context, I'm talking about monasteries like buildings, and these are magnificent buildings. As you know, so do I. To build any building, and in the Middle Ages and today, it takes money. No monk, however expended, and many of them, both Serbian and non-Serb, had the money and had enough material treasure to build a monastery physically. We're talking about monasteries in the context of the Law on Delegation. So, a monastery in terms of borrowing has always been made by world rulers or feudal masters, who, by definition, have made material resources available so that they can realise their goal. Now I'm not talking about collecting monks in one place to confess faith, I'm not talking about monasteries in that theological sense, I'm talking about monasteries as historical buildings. If you want, like material objects. In the context of this law, it's the only way to talk about debt in this way. So no bishop, no archaeologist could establish a monastery because he had no money. That's what this is about. It's very simple. It was always someone else, and by the rule of the world of feudal political mile formed a monastery, and then the church determined who would manage the monastery. It doesn't matter that much now. What's more important, Mr. Milivojevic, is that this law, I don't know if there's any more needs and that I'm reporting on it, without any need to politicise something that shouldn't really have anything to do with daily politics. What does European integration, promotion and protection of human rights and freedom have to do with what you have here, international understanding, regional development, with what in the original sense of words means to do something for your soul? Absolutely, Mr. Milivoevich, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47140	Three minutes of MP time was used. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47141	I really don't want to go into any polemics or replicas with anyone here, but whoever has the free time one weekend, I'm going to spend it through our beautiful Serbia to show them monasteries like buildings, to touch them with his hand, to see the hard, solid structures built by archaeologists and monks, not by the authorities. Serbia is filled with such monasteries, and when I talk about these monasteries, I talk about the monasteries of buildings, but they are not only in charge of the Serbian people of monasteries and churches, there are many other duties. When we talk about monasteries, whoever's free, whoever doesn't know and whoever wants to know, I'll call him, just from Kruševac to Tristenik, from where Ms. Minister Kalanovic is from, to show the monasteries made by monks as hard buildings. Let me show you the monasteries around Cačka, which were also made by monks, and around Ivanjica. Serbia is filled with such magnificent buildings made by monks of voluntary contributions from the people, by their efforts, by their thriftiness, by their industriousness. It's back to us on the subject. It's not just churches and monasteries in the Serbian people. The Church is separate from the state according to the Constitution. I'd like to talk about all those duties that stand and that need to be discussed through this law. About who knows how the monasteries are made or not, I don't want to go in or make a controversy out of it. Whoever has the free time, I offer myself, every weekend, who wants to organize, I will arrange for my own expense, to show the beauty of the country of Serbia and the monasteries made by monks, and archaeologists and famous igumanians in the Serbian Orthodox Church.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47142	One minute and 45 seconds of MP time were used. Before I give my word to MP Aleksandr Martinovic, in accordance with Article 27, I am obliged to give you a brief explanation of the way in which a provision that obliges us all to talk about the agenda is applied during this debate. There is no good possibility that during this debate the argument concerning the matter of the Law on the Protection of Monuments of Culture, on sacral objects in Serbia, churches, churches and all valuable things that we have, and which bear the name of borrowing, is from what is currently subject to the Law on Indemnities and Foundations. The only thing that binds these two areas is the title of the task, but because there is no way to separate it and to prevent any MP from using one and the other in an argument, so it is allowed to use the argument, so there is no confusion. The law which is on the agenda clearly explains in its provisions what it refers to, but the word that the law carries with it implies my obligation that a member who obliges us to talk about the agenda be interpreted together so that it is the fastest possible interpretation. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47143	Mrs. Comic, I will no longer answer for a word on this subject, no matter what any of the MPs, my colleagues, have said. Mr. Milivojevic, you are now identifying the builders with the founders of the monastery. I'm not talking about who built the monastery with his own hand, but who provided financial resources to build a monastery. The High Decani monastery was built with its own hand by someone who was not even Orthodox, Fra Vito of Kotor, a Catholic. He built it, but did not build it with his own money, nor with the money of the Archdiocese of Bar, but built it with the means of the then Serbian ruler Stefan Decanski. He provided the means for the monastery to be built, to make the monastery appear. Who built it? It was built by the nemare. At that time, the nemare were mostly monks, they were familiar with various skills, including the skills of construction, but someone else, by the rule of the world’s feudal rulers, provided the means for the monasteries to be made. That monks cannot make any monastery from their means, and monks and bishops, in the Catholic Church, come from the order of monks and archaeologists, also saying that the monk by definition is committed to poverty. The monk is someone who has given up earthly values, among other things, and money.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47144	Two minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47145	We're still on Article 3, where the objectives are the borrowing and the foundation. I liked what one of the DS MPs, Mrs Marjanovic, said, that this article was the third provision that does not impose goals, but lists them in the broadest possible sense, so my colleagues from the DSS and I felt that there must be some order in this list that would make sense. And in the previous article, I've been explaining and reading what this looks like, how you listed and placed it in place. It says – achieving a general objective within the meaning of this law is considered to be activities aimed at promoting and protecting human and civil rights, promoting democratic values, European integration. We have heard what one MP is one of the specifics of European integration. I can give him 12 of the following, but I won't. International understanding, sustainable development, regional development, gender equality, improvement of social and health protection, promotion and promotion of culture, promotion and popularisation of science, education, art, amateur sport, improvement of the situation of persons with disabilities, care for children and young people, assistance to the old people, environmental protection, combating corruption, consumer protection, animal protection and other activities for which responsibilities and foundations achieve general objectives, i.e. interests. What is missing here, of course, is a lot too much, but what is missing here is Mr Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic trying to bring in their amendment, so they felt that in one country, which has a very big problem with the fact that there are no children born, a small town of 30,000-70,000 inhabitants is lost every year, that we are a nation among the oldest in the world, that one of the basic goals that needs to be taken into account and the fight against the white plague. Now someone would answer to me that only the provisions listed here, the fastest interpreted and under this "other activities" can be interpreted and that demographic policy of one country, which has problems with it, is something that can be counted among those last goals. What's also interesting here is that the priorities of this government are some other things. There's a demographic policy behind all this. Interestingly, we will enter the EU in 2035, according to Stratford, with a population of about a million, since a state that does not care about its population and the restoration of its population cannot count on it. What's also very specific, I don't really know anymore when we interpret this opinion of the government when we get it, we get the specific amendments that we submit we get instructions under each. For example, under this amendment submitted by Mr Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic, the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendment to Article 3. The bill, submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Now we're looking here for what Mr. Nikola Žutić has submitted, and what we've responded to him, so that's what we've submitted. Mr. Nikla Zutic felt that they should be among the goals of promoting and protecting the national and traditional values of the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All right, the national value really needs to be a demographic policy and work on demographic policy in one country and whether they are traditional values, that will explain to us the minister who is not here or the minister who might want to or not, but now the explanation you gave to Mr. Žutić, which also refers to our amendment, which has nothing to do with what the gentleman has stated, is – the bill promoter has found that by achieving the general objective, in addition to the listed, and other activities that the duties and foundations achieve general objectives, i.e. interests. The pores of what you have stated are still small, irrelevant, we will not even list them, such as demographic policy, such as national values, and that is what we have turned our attention to several times in several laws and tried to tell you that first, I guess, ahead of these mantras about European values and other values, and whether there is an alternative or no alternative, must be the first national policy, what needs the national state of Serbia, of course, after that integration still some flows and similar things. There are no specific European values. There are democratic values that have been accepted. There are no self-provoked and some specific Europeans, at least I don't know. Maybe some experts know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47146	Five minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government did not accept the amendment, but the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Minister Verica Kalanovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47147	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47148	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I find that the proposing representative has accepted the amendment, and the National Assembly will declare its amendment in the voting day. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47149	For the sake of the public, I must point out what is defined by Article 3, although we have already heard on several occasions, but it is very important, this is a key member of this law. These are the objectives of the employment and the foundation, which is said to include, in order to achieve a general objective within the meaning of this law, activities are considered aimed at promoting and protecting human, civil, minority rights, improving social and health protection. My proposal was, and the SRS proposal, when we talk about improving and protecting human rights, minority rights, that it is necessary to install a provision that will have in its content and refugee rights, the rights of internally displaced persons and other categories. That's what I framed in the refugee legal decree. Why the refugee? Because refugees have been discriminated against since 1990 and beyond, because terror, ethnic cleansing and genocide have been committed against them. What was done by the state to help this population? Almost nothing. What did other countries in the region do to protect their populations that had similar phenomenal forms, as did Serbian refugees from the territory of Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia, BiH, Macedonia? They organized international donor conferences. They formed various foundations and collected dozens and hundreds of millions of euros and invested them in preserving the social, health and any other status of these population groups. The Republic of Serbia, formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, has done nothing about it. If we had looked up to countries in the region and organized international donor conferences, it would have been much easier to bear the burden of refugee life in these areas. When we say that the refugee population has experienced terror, ethnic cleansing and genocide, genocide has been assessed as a legal category both by the Republic of Croatia and by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia through a countersuit by the government in January this year. Just because of genocide and ethnic cleansing, the cleansing of the Serb population of Republika Srpska, BiH and other areas of the former Yugoslavia, the government has done nothing since 1990 to help the population, and the space and possibilities for assistance have been in many ways. Unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia is lagging behind and has done nothing about it. What's important is to point out even more about these goals of responsibilities and foundations, it's that you had to go far beyond all the forms of appearance that you've listed here in these objectives of responsibilities and foundations. This is just as twisted, partial, individual, and in real terms, you're not going to achieve anything by this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47150	A minute and 45 seconds have been used by an authorised representative. Anybody else answer for a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47151	Mrs. Komic, Article 3. The bill is so inspiring that any word can be incorporated into Section 1 and that it gets its meaning that would fit in with what the previous two members regulate. In the absence of other ideas, I suggested that the word "retired" be inserted, but then I remembered that you hated pensioners and of course you didn't accept the amendment. If I'd written Blacks, it might have gone away. Now I see that this kind of employeeship, that's what it is for the soul, has been given by the promoter to his body. A little bit, a little bit, a little bit, a little bit, a little bit, a little bit, a little bit, a little Yesterday we heard a new task force in New Belgrade named Mladjan Dinkic of 110 squares. Of course, for private interests, it fits into this new law. I suggest you open your duties in Black Grass. All of you who advocate regionalization, move to Black Trav, move there to your party's headquarters, form a main committee there, and then subcommittee of Vlasotince, the meat board of Surdulica, can also Lebane, and so start developing all of Serbia. You're not here to advocate regionalization, and you're buying apartments in downtown Belgrade. You must show by your actions that you are defined and that your soul is clean and that you can then, with a clean soul, do your duties. I had a chance to listen to everything and everything here, but today I realized that some people have to pay back to teachers or go to some classes. Mrs. Komic, for someone to be a monk, he gives up property and when the monk dies, no one can inherit it because he has nothing to inherit. It's a very important thing to understand things. We're in the field of desrbification. Mr. Žutić has submitted an amendment to show you what etemologically should mean in-house employment and should probably be in those areas where something needs to be preserved as a lasting value, which is art, culture, language, letter, song, youth, children and that it develops. You've put other activities in all of this. Remember one thing, a legal person can't exist without property. The legal face has no soul, the soul has a man, a physical face. There are new theories, though, that only souls have souls. These are some new theories, but this is so much papaziania that you prove that the purpose of this law is not what you wrote but that it is finally legalizing something that has long existed and could not fit into the existing legal order. You want from something that is non-governmental organisations financed from abroad to turn into top cultural, educational and other good peoples, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so let it be the Open Society Fund, be the Fund for Political Extraordinaryness, these other funds and foundations, so that even this Miskovic and Karic and these other institutions where they launder their money well and, as you say in the new jargon prove socially responsible behavior. Money laundering, my people. Do not put Miskovic and Karic in the same rank, with the same law to regulate as something that is Vuk's responsibility. It's a shame and a shame for this people. Give me some other law. Speaking of these donations, go to Ubb and you'll see that Cane built a church. Why are you stalking him? He's being socially responsible. Did you hear your Montgomery, the ones who weren't in the Arena? What he said last night – we allowed Milo Djukanovic to smuggle cigarettes to break up Serbia. How dare you persecute Canet? Cane was his partner.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47152	People's MP, or turn to the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47153	You're right about that. I understand, Cane, it's not the subject of this amendment, it's the pensioners. Did I get that right? The government says there is no way to create a task that would allow for development, promotion, etc. the situation of the pension population. Of course, we'll probably be informed in a few months of the severe budget deficit and the inability of this pro-European, where we'll never go, Government, to provide the transfer funds for pension payments. They're not helping pensioners here either. Nothing helps. We'll all be Blackfooters. Statistical error. All error to error. That's the way this government is going. I can't do anything effectively against that path. I'll give you that. I'm absolutely powerless here. Probably when this government was formed, 60% of citizens thought the EU something, now even 10% don't think about it. And that Calimer from Brussels said -- the EU's collapse, you're going down. There's no problem. We'll be there when it's time for the line, etc. How long have you been pushing these European laws? I have an assignment to inform the public what it means. What's hiding behind these laws? There's been another hoax out of these laws, some hoax. Will he devalue the euro? To be 1,70 dinars? I don't know. All those citizens will feel it on their skin. Who's going to legalize their funds, foundations and debts under this law? Criminals who are not allowed to ask where they have so many billions, they will be socially certified people who have taken part in the action of achieving the general objectives, by being socially responsible, so Miskovic sends his sister-in-law to Ivana Miskovic Karic and she informs that she and Dragan Djilas are making a certain task. Where? In Belville. Why? No space sold. Who's gonna pay? Something a little Gilas, a little bit of these and then you get rid of the tax. Well, when she's such an employee, it's no wonder she owes four billion in taxes to the state. The government has to give in. It must tolerate this kind of socially responsible behavior of certain individuals. When the director of the Health Security Department sees something's wrong, where's he gonna run off to? At Miskovic's. It's all right. No problem, but just so we know those facts. There's an asset in Nis called the KP home. It's a 20-year-old commission. Just to explain one thing, when the debt was made, then they asked the gentleman – is it clear to you, Mrs. Komic, or not to speak any further, there is no need to talk, so it is clear to you – the Pasic who said – you never know when we are going to jail, let it be luxurious. Take care, please, of that kind of indemnity. Why? There's no one to defend you. They won't have anyone to defend you. Niggers, there are no Blackfoots to defend you. That's the problem. I'm just letting the public know that this law has nothing to do with it. There's going to be another one in a series of pranks, and for the past 10 years, they've been pranking about what's been going on. Take care, you weren't in the arena. You're being followed by Montgomery. He's got security here, two types of security. There's 15% property in one agency, 60 people are armed. It's a paramilitary in the system of property and person protection agencies. Take care. He only read this morning, Mrs. Comic, remember, one famous interview, where everything exactly said by a man and because he said exactly why he died. This law can't be fixed. You need to pull this off because this is a disgrace for the RS. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47154	Eight minutes of MP time was used. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47155	On behalf of the SPS-JS Parliament Club, I submitted an amendment to Article 3, where, after Article 2, paragraphs 3 and 4 are added, and the idea of this amendment was that one part of the territory, called KIM, AP, should be included in the sentence in this law. In fact, it is well known that the diplomatic struggle that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Government have waged and we here to keep KIM should be the basis for, and in all other legislative proposals that come before the MPs, to make our contribution. It is clear that such a sentence would not harm what is called the legislative proposal that is before us and which has been well amended before the adoption of more than 20 amendments or over 20% of the proposed amendments. I really do, and I had the impression when the minister was here that it was approximately and acceptable for the government and the minister as a promoter. I hope that we will have a consultation in the course of this act until the very vote by the promoter and may allow this legislative proposal and this amendment to find its place, because I do not think it can harm, and it can contribute much, both to us and to the citizens, and especially to the citizens of KIM, to feel protected. It's about the duties, it's about the territory where there's a huge number and where the borrowing started, and it all has its own symbolism, regardless of the modernity of this law, which we support in any case in the way that it's proposed. However, what cannot harm, and can also be used to contribute to our fellow citizens, we think it deserves a good sign of attention, and on that behalf I expect the motionary to think again before the vote comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47156	22 seconds of MP time was used. National MP Svetlana Stojanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47157	Indeed, it is inadmissible not to mention at all in KIM's Law on Delegations and Foundations of Churches and Monasteries. If we ourselves, under any excuse or excuse, skip the KiM law, we give up Kosovo and remain remembered as such. The laws passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must make it known to its members that it is a Serbian country and that it will remain forever for us. Everything else is the opposite of the Constitution. The DSS MPs have submitted several amendments to which we are trying to correct this huge gap. They'll talk about it in more detail. I support not only ours but also all amendments of the MPs of the other parliamentary groups that introduce our southern Serbian province of KIM into the law on duties.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47158	Used a minute of authorized representatives. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47159	This amendment to Article 3, which we propose to delete the position of the 3rd member, is in line with one of our general objections to this law, which is that through this law it should simply not be allowed, to put it this way, to set up responsibilities and foundations for private purposes and to obtain private benefit. This view is – by achieving private interest within the meaning of this law, activities are considered to be aimed at achieving individual interests of the founders of both his or her family and third parties, and in the law the proposer stated – family responsibilities set up for the purpose of training family members and for other legal purposes. We believe that the task and foundation should be established only for general purposes and not for private purposes and for the benefit of the individual and his family. If a family wants to make an interest or benefit, it's mostly some financial benefit to do something, then that family forms a small company. When you have a company, you work and benefit, or financial benefit, and you do not form either a debt or a foundation, how recklessly the legislator stated here that you would educate your children, or this is an invitation, and there are many such families today, which are very difficult or in no way able to educate their children, that this family forms a foundation to educate their children or their children. That's why we think there's no room for this law or any law in this law. In your explanation, you wrote a long one and I'd like to say a legal quality explanation. However, it did not convince us that we really need to leave this possibility that a family can form a foundation to educate its child. That's a lot to talk about. So this is where the possibility of money laundering and major abuses opens up. You have stated here how such foundations are formed or how laws in these countries are allowed, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, etc., and then you refer us to the Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights which guarantees the right to enjoy property peacefully. That's right. People and citizens of Serbia should have the right to enjoy property peacefully, but should not use private foundations to gain personal benefit. It's quite the opposite of the spirit of the employee and the foundation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47160	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47161	I'll read Article 4, which says, "Employments and foundations, within the meaning of this law, are non-profit NGOs." This article gives us another definition of the debt and the foundation, which is extremely unnecessary. When we use the terms "profitable and non-profitable", when we use the terms "government and NGOs", it must have a clear legal and financial basis for these terms. Unfortunately, these are just jargon terms. In our legal system, we do not have a clear definition as you say – non-profit organisations or NGOs. Which means a non-profit organization if it's a legal person, and you said in the definition in Article 2 that they're legal persons. Legal persons have an obligation to create their status, to have their rights and obligations, and if they have rights and obligations, they also have their own property, and if they have their own assets, then they must have their own financial balance, and if they have their own financial balance, then they must have a positive business, otherwise they have certain sanctions, and one of the sanctions is the termination of work or the liquidation of that legal person unless it is a winning organisation, or if there is no adequate financial resources to cover the costs of the company's work. As far as NGOs are concerned, as you say here, we in the legal system have various definitions, but it is essential whether they are financed by the state or not. You're in one of the members, I think 24, said the state could finance the work of the employees and the foundation. What does that mean? Then are they NGOs? No, they're not. The position of the SRS not only in this case, but also in other cases, is that when you use these jargon terms, you try to narrow them down, shape them, frame them legally into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, we have empty laws, we have jargon terms that mean nothing and cause confusion in practical application.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47162	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group were used. The title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47163	There is one question here whether the NGO is the same as the Association of Citizens. I can't answer that, I'm not sure what the answer would be. But I know that last year we adopted the Law on Associations of Citizens, which has been done for a long time and where the working title of this bill was – the Law on NGOs. There is a major overlap, i.e. – the Association of Citizens equally NGOs. Although the Gentiles know there's no hundred percent synonymy. So I'm not saying it's 100%. But in answer, you're telling me that in a positive right you use the term NGO, I don't know. I know, so, yes, and in law, we didn't want to name it that way because it doesn't exist. You have to get for that so-called. The non-governmental sector is also benefiting from the civil sector, etc. Guided by that, I felt that this should not be a "invaluable NGO" but that it should be "unprofitable citizens' associations", if you have already entered that problem and define it with this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47164	National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47165	Dear fellow SNS MPs, the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, submitted a number of amendments to the draft law on borrowings and foundations. The amendments have been made to correct the bad law, so that the law would also be acceptable to the benefit of Serbian citizens. About 25% of our amendments, the government has understood and accepted, which will certainly affect the improvement of this law. This also shows that we have good intentions and that we want out of this congregation to come up with laws that benefit our citizens. Unfortunately, the majority of our good amendments were not understood by the government so it did not accept them, which is not good, because the same laws will come back on the agenda, as many others have so far, for correction. If not for the mandate of this government, then when another government is formed. We in the SNS have submitted an amendment to article 6 of this legislative proposal. Article 6 regulates the illegal objectives of the employee and the foundation. This Article 6 is quite good, as are many other members of this legislative proposal, however, and this member should suffer some changes and we have proposed the following. In Article 6(1), the words "not to be contrary to the legal order" shall be replaced by the words "not to be contrary to public order, to mandatory regulations and to good customs". In Article 6, we also suggested that Article 4 be deleted. As an explanation, we gave the following: in the legal theory, the public order is a set of rules to ensure, among other things, respect for the basic institutions of the legal order, and the legal order is a social order regulated by law. The legal order is a narrow concept of the public order and can be defined as a set of interrelated legal norms that regulate social relations or certain behaviours of people. In view of this, legal norms that regulate the objectives and functioning of the borrowing and foundation are part of the legal order and as such should not be contrary to the public order. As the legal order constitutes mandatory regulations and discriminatory legal norms, it is clear that the law should stipulate that the objectives and functioning of the task and the foundation should not be contrary to the mandatory regulations. Part of social relations and human behavior is regulated by legal norms, and part of these relationships is not. Part of social relations and the behavior of people who are not regulated by legal norms is not part of the legal order, but that does not mean that it can be contrary to good customs. On the contrary, part of the social order that is contrary to good customs must be sanctioned. Therefore, the amendment and proposed that the objectives and functioning of the debt and the foundation should not be contrary to public order, mandatory regulations and good customs. Such a formulation, except for the more appropriate purpose, would also be in the function of establishing a single legal order of our country. Given that a series of applicable laws are currently using the Institute of Consistency with the public order, forced regulations and good practices, as a condition for producing desired legal facts. As regards attitude 4, he proposed it is not bad, however, it is unnecessary under this legal proposal, given Article 155. The law of succession, which stipulates that the legacy is in vain if its contents are contrary to mandatory regulations, public order and good customs. Mr. Minister, you can see that this amendment does not violate the concept of legal proposals, but only improves the draft law on borrowings. Therefore, it could be accepted because there is no good reason why this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47166	Two minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and joint MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47167	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic, just tell me how much time my parliamentary group has. (President: 11 minutes. ) We have proposed eradicating positions 2 and 3 from this article, where the illegal objectives of the employment and foundation are indicated, and here it is said that the objectives and functioning of the borrowings and foundations must not be directed towards achieving the particular interests of political parties, what is considered to be such direct participation, etc. Why do we propose to delete? Because we believe that this will remain a dead letter on paper and that it will practically not be possible to implement it. You have many foundations in Serbia today. Some foundations, for example, are tasked with co-operation with parties on the left hand side of the spectrum of political parties, other foundations co-operate with parties on the right-hand spectrum, so you already have foundations that and how they co-operate with different parties. Among other things, for example, these foundations sometimes organise training for committee candidates or candidates for mayors, or candidates for MPs. Is that indirect or direct participation in the campaign? I think this should simply be erased, because this is going to remain a dead letter on paper and it's not going to mean anything. Of course, it will not contribute to the control of the work of all these foundations, when it comes to political life in Serbia. Why are you bringing this in when this can't be applied?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47168	The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47169	Since I have submitted an amendment with my colleague, Donko Banovic, or my colleagues from the DSS, in the same text, I have virtually nothing to add to what my colleague Banovic was saying, but I will use it to comment not only on this article 6, but on the general Law on Liaison and Foundations, and I will use the time of the authorised representative. Risking being boring and even in this third discussion of the Bill of Delegations and Foundations, I appeal to the promoters to withdraw the law and return it to completion, if for no other reason, and to respect the fact that the issue is neither transitory nor transitional, but spiritual philanthropic. The cynics would say that currently in force is not philanthropy, but misanthropy, and it is so understandable that the duties are given the character of the organisation for a certain time, with a particular political purpose, as if it were the ministries. It seems that the people of Serbia will not have to intervene because within the government, ministers already have a big fight. In the 21st century, there is no milk in Serbia, and Ministers Milosavljevic and Dinkic argue who is to blame. Of course neither of them can give milk, but they're like a socially just government to provide the creatures that give it and the people who breed the creatures concerned with doing so in an adequate way. Besides, if they don't know how to get the milk to the Serbian citizens, they won't be helped by any chemical cleaning of their biography through the creation of personal duties, so they just decided to build... (President: Mrs. Jankovic, I must interrupt you because of your obligation to speak about a subject which is on the agenda and my obligation to warn you when you go off to dairy because, despite your best wishes, I don't see how you'll connect, but here you go. You have a chance right now. That's the darkness. It's connected. It's very connected. He who cannot provide milk cannot clean his biography and justice his incompetence, justly and build up the duties that will represent a copy of the temple of the Holy Sava. You didn't let me finish, time's running out, you're actually distracting me from continuing the discussion. In a situation where as many as 22.7% of Serbian citizens say that in the last two months there was not enough money for food, only 4.9% of Serbian citizens are satisfied with their lives, with the largest number, even 78% barely putting an end to the end, it is no wonder that 65% of Serbian citizens lack confidence in the government, while all 18% believe that the prime minister is sufficiently professional. Here are the results of the Gallup survey, presented in Brussels yesterday, under the Balkan Monitor project. The people in Serbia do not need any monitor to come to the conclusion that there is no reconstruction that will make this government efficient and responsible. Generally, and as far as this proposal is concerned, we're actually just prolonging the agony, and ministers are trying to get in touch with the practical prime minister of BT, so that he doesn't throw them out of the chair of their own, with the people not believing it would be better and I wouldn't be surprised if the government had won the graphite "You've been painting for nothing". It is obvious that not only the yellow ministers, who have a double reason, have to prove themselves in the government, but also in the party, are also spreading the state of anxiety to the members of the code list party to which the culture minister is currently absent. As a famous paranoid, I really don't know what else to attribute to an extremely unusual two-hour break in today's assembly session, followed by the absence of a resolute minister, if not the fact that he is one of the potential ministers in the reconstruction, so he has rapidly expanded his scope of action. But once the government is reconstructed, when there are announcements that soon there will be a reconstruction of the Constitution, which is what prevents you from reconstructing the draft law on borrowings and foundations. I have already noted that this bill does not cover the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, as if it were simply not part of Serbia's territory, so that the duties in this area are not treated as Serbian, while in several places, in Articles 12, twice, 25, 52 and 58, the role of the AP Vojvodina is cited. The government's explanation for not accepting the amendments I have submitted, for example, to Article 12, asking that after saying "in the territory of the AP Vojvodina" the words "Ap of Kosovo and Metohija" are added to the words "solicited" because it is said - the amendment is not accepted for the reason... (President: I apologize, it is the amendment to Article 6.) I said I was using the time of my authorised representative of the parliamentary group. (President: No matter what, you have to talk about the subject. I'm sorry. That's what the Rules of Procedure says, and there's no apology. All right. Now I'm going back to Article 6, where the same thing happens. Article 6 gives Tito's honorary pioneering word in the first position, and it is said that the objectives of the operation of the employees and the foundation must not be contrary to the legal order, and in particular must not be directed at the violent destruction of the constitutional order and the violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. That's very interesting, if not allowed, in which we agree, to violate the constitutional order, how do you negotiate with Thaci's government and how do you leave out from this bill an entire southern province, with the huge number of duties in it. What the government is saying is that amendments to some members of the law cannot be accepted because, based on Resolution 1244, a temporary legal system has been established on KIM, so the affairs of the state administration while the system is being established are being carried out by the competent republican authorities. The logical question is how long the system will last and whether this formulation is actually recognised by the government of the Republic of Serbia, or whether it is working to further disperse the territorial integrity of the state. So, last time we talked about this, the minister did not advertise, but representatives of the ZES parliamentary group, as experts on all issues from sycamore through schizophrenicism to the economy of international law, have found with contempt that such findings of the opposition's stupidity and malignancy, as Article 6 states that the objectives and functioning of the duties are not contrary to the legal order, and in particular they must not be directed towards violent destruction of the constitutional order and violation of Serbia's integrity. So, the country's territorial integrity must not be destroyed by force, but it can be done by the Serbian government co-operating with Thaci's office, preparing a platform for the final stage of recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija. According to the Kosovo platform's proposal, Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue should be divided into three stages, a preparatory or status-free phase, a medium or a phase with neutral status and a final or status-free phase. The goal is to use this gradual method, quote "Kosovo is Serbia", resolve practical issues and normalise relations. At the end of the process, I again quote "two countries will mutually understand and become members of the EU as sovereign countries". It is now clear why amendments submitted to this bill are not subject to such an explanation by the government, which actually implies a limitation of the duration of Kosovo's status as a southern province and as I have heard it insists that the most useful objective is to promote and achieve European integration and international understanding. So, although the proposer of this law is the Ministry of Culture, I don't think that anything can happen in the government without the blessing of the current prime minister, the person in the role of Serbian President, who can catapult ministers who don't understand, where the essential translation of the pre-election slogan and the EU and Kosovo, is neither the EU nor Kosovo. Less than half of Serbia's citizens, about 44% believe that EU membership...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47170	Now it's my turn. I'm warning you for the last time, and I quote Article 106(1). "The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted." The agenda item is Article 6(2), is deleted. Item 2 of Article 6 The law says that the objectives and functioning of the employees and the foundation must not be directed towards achieving the particular interests of political parties. From this moment on, I warn you that without any involvement of me, except for a mild request to return to the agenda, next time without the explanation of my opening, I will give you a warning, which I do not do this time. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47171	All right, that's why I'm proposing to delete this particular member who says that the objectives and functioning of the duties and foundations, that is, the position of Article 6, must not be aimed at achieving the particular interests of political parties. I believe that you have no personal interest and that what you are doing right now is achieving the particular interest of your political party. I just can't believe there's some catch 22 here, and I can't believe the good intentions of the legislator of this law, and even when it comes to Article 6 of this law, when the text was written to them by Soros, the Open Secret Society Fund and the American Agency for International Development. They wrote Article 6. With all due respect to them in their efforts, the Serbian people have more experience and a far richer tradition of employment, and besides Kolarac, Kalenić, Nikola Spasic, Perside Milenkovic, Petra Srnić, we really don't have to look for mega giga Sorconian experts to write a law that isn't intended for only one time, one group of people, one religious or national organisation, but is written for eternity, so that it enriches the world's heritage. If you want to promote your homework, why didn't you include in the discussion the ultimate legitimate objections of the Association of Deputies and Funds, which number 80 of our own, and world experts, why it's always better to be someone else's and how to give up ours, and especially when this one interferes with the work that was given to him. It is obvious that the bill promoter was selectively deaf to remarks that our employees, of course, and to Article 6(2), would explain or try to pass through Ms. Kalanovic, who showed this selective deafness, to insert into my directorial knowledge some of the items that these people from the Association of Deputies and Foundations have given and to make a better scenario than this text we have before us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47172	Ten minutes and thirty seconds used by an authorised representative. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47173	Mr. Novakovic, it is good that someone has submitted the amendment to Article 6(2) and opened a very important topic. You can see for yourself when the bill contains the wording of Article 3, which in this wide way tries to describe what can be the objectives of the employment and the foundation, which is to achieve the general objective, and as a general goal, everything and everything can be put to rest, then the question of where the borrowing begins, and where it ends and where it leads. Whether the debts and funds should serve to achieve the political goals of the parties, regardless of these words you have put in here. We must in principle find out if the party can form a task force, can it form a foundation? What does a foundation or a fund serve, doesn't matter what it's called now, which promotes political excellence? If I were to read to you how many people through Sonja Licht went to America to school, and one of them was your former governor, in this part Dulic, Jeremic, does not matter, the whole government is like that, it would not be correct to draw someone out. Mrs. Kalanovic, feel free to turn the cup around, and then I'll see if there's any squirrels. Otherwise, in Vranjska Banja strike, they blocked the road there because of that privatization of the Star. Mr. Novakovic, do you know what the IRI means? There used to be a firm in the electronics industry called "Iri" and it did traffic lights. It's a shortcut for one of the Republican Party's institutes. They've funded here, trained their staff. Do you know what Conrad Adenauer is? This assembly has been working with this foundation, which is the foundation of a conservative party who has been preparing personnel who know when. Mr. Novakovic, do you remember when two years ago in that old building, I was chasing spies on the fourth floor who were listening, so I kicked them all out of the building, the ones who locked themselves up. These are all foundations, foreign responsibilities, due to this sub-sidical mentality that is present with individual representatives of the government. This morning I read an interview where a man stamped and said he couldn't understand such ministers, and he was Prime Minister. Then the question is, what do you want to achieve by this law, do you want to legalize what is existing and what cannot be compared to some law? You can't do that, because it's been stamped for all time. You can fix the status of some foundations or some actions between the foundation, the fund, the debt and some actions where funds are provided, and in principle there's no difference, because those actions have that connotation of extremes in them, but they last for 10 years, 1000 young leaders, not to mention names, because some would rip here. How does that have no political interests? What insults the representatives of these parties who made this foundation? Victoria Group launders money, and the other guy launders money, the third guy finances. It's all facts, it's all registered, books are written about it. Why? Whoever gave the money has got to brag. Very simple and simple. The more money he gives, the more he has to boast, and then with those references he goes to the ministries, participates in public procurement and gets a job. The circle is closed. Kukurika tanté. I'll pay you for the fund, you weigh the money for the job. I get out of the money fund, you get my job. You've heard what these small fertilizer producers say, they call it Minister Dragin. Do you read the paper? You don't read, okay. So it's a good thing there's this amendment, because it opens up a principle question -- what exactly do you want with this bill? If you don't understand, feel free to turn the cup, Mrs. Kalanovic, I'll look into your cup and explain to you if there is a squirrel. There's probably a squirrel. Remember, Mladjan Dinkic came to the Assembly in jeans, and you are the first and only minister to drink coffee while the debate is going on. To be ashamed of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47174	Five minutes and twenty seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is from Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47175	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the presentation of one of the previous speakers, or speakers, we have heard an interesting topic about this law and these amendments, that apparently some of the laws written here in this country are actually written abroad. I can say that I am proud that Serbia is slowly achieving its co-operation with the world, with Europe and that something good from the world and Europe wants to apply here as well. I am even more proud when something good and beautiful from Serbia is used in the world, but I am absolutely sure, and I know that all the laws that come here in this House vote and adopt in Serbia, that these are laws that we don't make to please someone, and this law here. We of these laws, which we bring to this high house and which the parliamentary majority adopts, do not want anyone to like us, to move someone, on the contrary, and by this law and by all other laws we make that path towards Europe and make that path that we want to exchange values with the world and Europe. As for some other exhibits and MPs who are sorry they weren't hired by the Political Extraordinary Fund, you know, in order to be noticed and exceptional first you have to be exceptional, to be gifted to be noticed and noticed. What came to whom when he looked at the cup, that's his problem. I know an MP who looks at himself in a cup and says he will win the parliamentary elections, win the presidential elections, and he is absolutely certain whenever he looks at the cup that he will win the elections, and that is why he is constantly seeing the elections. If he looked a little less at the cup, had a little less dreams, and listened a little more to what the citizens said, he would have known if he hadn't crossed the censorship in Vranjska Banja, Negotin, Arangelovac and some other towns of Serbia, and then turned to the law, amendments and the topic of the agenda, rather than looking at the cup.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47176	I was just about to warn you about the subject. Please, as many possibilities as you allow, hold the topic, and if the topic is extremely interesting. The word has a folk MP, Mr Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47177	Mr. President, Madam Minister, as far as the bill and amendments submitted by the SRS are concerned, in any case these amendments aim to improve the text of the law. In particular, when it comes to Article 6 – what are the objectives and functioning of the responsibilities and foundations. In any case, the amendments indicated by the SRS parliamentary group should be adopted. I'd ask you to just tell me what the children's resort has to do with it, is the children's resort on Divchibari owned by the Pančev municipality and if it is run by who? It's the property of the municipality. However, Mr. President and Mrs. Minister, there was an unusual event and the case that the Ministry of Economics and Regional Development reached a solution on 8 November 2010, and came into force on 13 November, where the solution of the Ministry of Regional Development banned the work of a child's pre-school institution and a lower class teaching facility in nature, where four thousand children from the Pancheva municipality are staying because Panče's most polluted city and has higher children suffering from pulmonary diseases and the highest number of patients in Panchev from the known industrial zone, etc. I would like you, Madam Minister, since it is the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development that you, as a member of the Government, examine how it is possible that 150 children today do not leave Pancheva to Divcibara for school in nature? Please tell the Minister or Government to reconsider this solution and decision, because two-thirds of the cost of stay for children in Divcibars is borne by the municipality of Pancheva and the Directorate. I ask you on behalf of four thousand annual parents from Panchev to point out to the minister and the competent inspector who brought the solution, number 300-332... (President: Mr. Jojic, I can understand... I'll finish, Mr. President, just to say which solution is at stake, and the point is that it's a general interest. (President: I want to tell you two things. The real thing is to respect the Rules of Procedure and to talk about a subject that is on the agenda and that has absolutely nothing to do with our common empathy towards children who will not go to Divcibara. On the other hand, I regret to inform you that the SRS has not declared an amendment to Article 6, and you have been reporting on this very basis. ) Mr. President, it is my right and obligation to refer to all members relating to the bill. I referred first of all to the amendments submitted, and now I also refer to the provisions of Article 6. I must say, this is a general interest. I wonder if the nursery has become somebody's responsibility. I ask Mrs Kalanovic, in the framework of the work and the debate at the government's meetings in contact with the competent resolution minister Dinkic, to reconsider the solution, because as they have brought it, they have the right to cancel and put it outside the legal force. This is a request for about four thousand citizens of Panchev. Thank you and forgive me, Mr. President, but I have been asked by the citizens to speak to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47178	I appreciate your apology. Four minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th in the same text, the amendments were submitted jointly by the MPs Natasa Vukković and Vesna Marijanović, MP Aleksandra Jankovic, MP Zoran Kasalović and joint MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47179	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47180	Thank you. Here, and the government has accepted the amendment. The word has Mrs. Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47181	It may be good for me to explain in two minutes, and it is good that the legislator has accepted this, because Article 8 is talking about the public of work, so the proposal said that the task which achieves the general objective, that it submits an annual report on its activities and work, and that it makes it available to the public, whether it will be published on the Internet, the publication, etc. The proposal said that the task established in order to achieve private interest, it was not obliged to inform Serbian citizens of its activities. By accepting this amendment, you have corrected the error.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47182	Thank you, Mrs. Banovic. Mrs. Vesna Marjanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47183	In fact, I would just like to say that today we have adopted this amendment on the Committee on Culture, which in the same form has submitted a number of MPs and ruling coalitions and oppositions. I'm very happy about that, but I would just like to say that it's a good thing that this amendment has been accepted, among other things, to resolve one, to say, the wrong idea that the duties established for the sake of private interests are some kind of closed organization that will serve some kind of abuse or something. It is therefore very important that we understand that this law, i.e. by means of borrowings and foundations, does not define the personal benefit, but rather the way in which personal property is used. I think that's why it's good that we adopted this amendment, that we simply avoid any idea that the work of these foundations will be completely hidden from the public and that it will serve some kind of abuse. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47184	National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The word is Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in general the SNS is very unhappy with this text of the law and we believe that there are many and many legal and technical errors in this law. The fact that 20 amendments have been accepted in some way proves this my finding, but I think there are more amendments among this large number of amendments that need to be accepted during the debate and I hope the minister will have an understanding. In particular, when it comes to this article 10, here, I will try to convince you that this amendment of the SNS was also to be accepted because it consists of two parts. In the first part, I have to read to you, you will see that it is a language structure that has entered into this text of the law by mistake, which is unclear, which is incorrect – the task and the foundation are established by means of an instrument of establishment or contract (hereinafter referred to as the founding act) drawn up in writing, that is what is in the SNS amendment. I think it's perfectly normal, that it's in the spirit of Serbian and that it's a much more correct language structure. In the second part of this amendment, you will see that the legislator prescribes Article 172. The law on inheritance, completely unnecessary, creating in some way confusion in the legal order of our country. It's one of the principles that the SNS advocates, because as I said, in the Law of Inheritance, there's also a regulation of the legacy, the obligation of an executor of the legacy, and this is one attitude that prescribes a part of the text of the Legacy Act, I think we're creating a legal confusion. For this position there is no reason and the SNS has also suggested that this position be deleted in the text of this Article. We believe that there has been a lot, or at least in this argument, enough reason for this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47186	30 seconds of MP time was used. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47187	And in this amendment to the SNS, we wanted to clarify and avoid possibly any abuse in the application of this law. In particular, this member of the law refers to the content of the founding act. What has bothered us in the text of this article is that it is not clearly defined whether the commission is based on a specific or indefinite time. We believe that in one of the founding acts of duty we have to have that definition, that we can clearly separate those assets that are indefinitely, just as I said at the beginning, because there are possible various abuses. We still have a large number of foundations, i.e. debt and foundation. They're based in different ways. One part must be established by the founder's means. People invest their assets, but you also have those assets where citizens' funds are collected, in which even the state is helping out of some general social interest, to strengthen these responsibilities, to achieve some general social goal. Therefore, if you do not have a clearly defined duration of such a task, we believe that there may be some confusion and abuse and that those funds that are invested may also be misused. As far as SNS is concerned, wherever we felt the possibility of abuse of this law, we intervened because, since we live in a society where there are very many negative examples, any negative example in the area of employment would significantly compromise the objectives of this law, so as I said, we don't think we should miss any chance of making this text of the law as clear as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47188	Thank you. The 12th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The same text was submitted to Article 12 of the amendment by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and joint MPs Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47189	I have to admit, with great anxiety, I approach the interpretation of my amendments, because I always have a warning waiting for me. I got practically two yellows. My amendment reads - In Article 12, in paragraph 3, after the words "in the territory of the AP Vojvodina", the words "and AP KIM" should be added, while the further text of the stance remains the same. I really think that this amendment corrects a failure that probably accidentally made by the draft law on duties and foundations. I have no doubt that this bill was written here, I have no doubt it was written with free will, but what's justifiable is that this bill expresses some interests that come from the side. Besides, I still don't understand why we haven't consulted domestic experts? Why was it such a problem to consider a class of objections, in particular an objection concerning this particular article of Article 12 and to abandoning our southern province of AP KIM from this member? Why was it a problem for the Ministry of Culture to agree with the part of the objections of 80 professional people working at the Association of Delegations, Foundations and Funds, and that practically agency founded only by the Ministry of Culture? If we assume that we all have good intentions and we want to leave something for eternity and talk in the Serbian Parliament about the issue of borrowing for all Serbian citizens, those who were, those who are now living and who are about to come, I think we should make sure that we leave some dignity in this consideration and that we certainly bring in the loans from our southern province. It is possible that the transitory state in our southern Serbian province at this time is problematic, but what is completely beyond any doubt and beyond any possibility of calculating it is the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are an inseparable part of Serbia and that this is something foreseen by the Constitution of our Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47190	It's been used 30 seconds by an authorised representative. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic and MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one more technical amendment that we wanted to bring down the possibility of abuse of duties and foundations to a minimum. The SNS considers it necessary to include, in its name, labels that would define whether or not the asset or foundation was established to achieve the general objective or was established for the purpose of achieving private interest. In this way, without taking into account the founding act or the employment register and the foundation, it could be seen what kind of debt it is. In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, you stated that in the employment and foundation register there is also information on which type of debt and foundation is concerned, but what we wanted to achieve by this amendment is that this verifier is faster and more accessible, and this can only be done through the name of the employee itself. I'm saying all of this because our legal system so far has not known the institution, the task of achieving private interest. As we now have a situation in Serbia, with a high probability that in the future, if you do not accept this amendment, such a situation will be repeated. A famous model or some other public figure forms its foundation in order to achieve general interest and this general interest is promoted through all media. Then a significant part of the material resources collected also points to a private interest, such as buying a wardrobe or renting a jeep. In this way, it has led the public into error in Serbia, but also people of goodwill and socially responsible companies who wanted to focus part of their profits on helping endangered categories of our society. Respecting a rule that is unfortunately rarely applied in Serbia, which is that someone is innocent until proven guilty, I will not mention the name of that foundation or the name of that former model. For the same reasons that I've been talking about so far, I suggested that, as a mandatory ingredient of the title of the employee and the foundation, there be also a mark of bankruptcy or liquidation in the event that the debt or the foundation is in bankruptcy or liquidation. For the sake of all this, I invite you to accept the SNS amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47192	30 seconds of MP time was used. On the 17th amendment with the correction, the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment with the correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47193	I think the bill promoter went to some analogy when it comes to economic operators and when it comes to responsibilities and that what is prescribed by the laws that treat economic operators simply prescribed in this law on employment. Given that we have a significantly higher number of businesses in Serbia than we do in debt, it is quite normal for you to have that provision when registering business entities that say that economic operators cannot have the same name when registering, or that a new business operator cannot get the name of an economic operator that is already registered in the register. We believe that when it comes to borrowings, given that they are in a significantly smaller number, it should be emphasized, so we tried to supplement this member of the law, that the name cannot be even similar to that of the name that already exists in the register. The desire is the same as in most SNS amendments, to avoid any abuses and to make it clear that citizens know what the tasks are and what the objectives of these duties are.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47194	Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment has been submitted to Article 24 relating to the register of officials and foundations, in particular to the authority responsible for the registration and keeping of registers. The amendment proposes that the third position of Article 24 be deleted, which defines that the amount of the fee for the registration of duties and foundations in the register and other services provided by the Agency in the procedure of the management of the register shall be determined by the Management Board of the Agency with the consent of the Government. In this proposal for a Law on Delegations and Foundations, this provision is unnecessary because everything relating to the Agency, including the amount of the fee to be entered in the Register and the level of other services in the procedure of keeping the Register, is regulated by the provisions of the Act on the Agency for Commercial Registers. The position of the SRS is known when it comes to agencies. These are non-constitutional bodies, designed to employ as many personnel as possible in the public sector with many leading places, mostly with high earnings, with boards of directors and supervisors, with fees that have once had their heights parallelled their ears, until a decision was made in 2009 to limit the level of compensation on boards and supervisory boards. Then it was silenced and there was no record of whether the decision was respected or not, but it could soon be a topic for parliamentary issues when ministers in charge of those areas came to the National Assembly. The reason why this provision should not be incorporated into this law is that in the future it may happen that non-constitutional institutions - agencies are transformed into the legal sectors of ministries, real systemization is created, there are no more boards of directors and supervisory boards, it begins with the legal conduct of the affairs of the state administration. In such a situation, this law could succumb to changes. To avoid this, the way to accept this amendment is the SRS. This is a law with clearly defined objectives, such as improving social and health care, promoting and promoting culture, promoting and popularising science, education, the art of amateur sports, improving the situation of persons with disabilities, caring for children and young people, helping old people, protecting the environment, fighting corruption, protecting consumers, protecting animals, humanitarian and other activities which bring about general goals and interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47196	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic, who was accepted by the government and the Committee on Culture. There's no answer for word. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted. No one's answering for a word. The 25th amendment was filed by MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic. There's no answer for word. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47197	Article 26 sets out some cases where a refusal of registration for the registration of a foundation or of a task may occur. In point 2 of the proposal, the applicant says, the registration application which has some of the shortcomings in Article 1 shall not be rejected if the applicant of the application within the time limit set by the registrar, which cannot be shorter than 15 days, removes the identified deficiencies. We have proposed, by amendment, that from this attitude, the words "be deleted within the time limit set by the registrar, which cannot be shorter than 15 days. "Why? Because we don't think there should be any legal restriction here at all. You're saying that sometimes a registrator should allow more than 15 to remove the deficiency, so I agree. A lack can be serious, for example, there may be some problem with the statutes or founding act, and it probably takes a little more time to remove the deficiency. Why? Well, because the one who submits the application and wants his foundation and his debt to be registered, so it's absolutely in his interest. So, he will remove these shortcomings, if he makes serious access to the job, so that he can register his commission and foundation. There is no need for the registrar to set a deadline or that the deadline cannot be shorter than 15 days. So it's in the interest of those who want to register it to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47198	The 26th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Otto Kishmarton has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47199	Dear fellow MPs, the Prosperity Group, submits Serbia's amendments with a view to correcting poor legal proposals, so that laws that benefit our citizens come out of the Republic Assembly. Our amendments have been well-designed, a lot of efforts have been made to make amendments, and thus to correct the laws that have arrived. Some SNS amendments have been accepted, but most have not, although our amendment shows the intention of repairing this law. The non-acceptance of our amendments is likely to be a lack of understanding of the amendments by the Government, given that this amendment is subject to Article 26. The government has not accepted and I do not expect a minister who is now not present to understand and accept the amendment to this article. The amendment refers to the rejection of the application for registration in the employment register and the foundation. This Article 26 sets out the reasons why the registrar may refuse to register, as well as the time limit within which the applicant may remove deficiencies in the existing application and that is fine. It is a third position which does not foresee the possibility of a party being damaged and therefore we propose an amendment to Article 26. In accordance with Article 26 of the proposal, I propose that paragraph 3 be amended and that, against the conclusions set out in Article 1 of this Article, an appeal to the Ministry of Culture's tasks may be made within 15 days of the date of receipt. Because the solution in the bill is contrary to Article 36(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which guarantees that everyone has the right to appeal or the right to an anti-determination agent to decide on his right, obligation or law-based interest. In a specific case, each person shall decide on the right of the founder to enroll in the employment and foundation in the register. The right to conduct an administrative dispute against final individual acts is also guaranteed by the Constitution of Article 198(2) and this right does not exclude the right to appeal. That solution is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, which prescribes the right of everyone to an effective legal remedy in Article 13. This amendment would improve this law and I do not see any valid reason why this amendment has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47200	One minute of the MP's time was used. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mićo Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47201	Mr. Chairman, before I explain the amendment to Article 28, I must conclude that the chapter above Articles 28 and 27 of the Law bears the title – Refusal of registration, and nothing would be disputed if it were only Article 27, if it weren't for Article 28, which speaks of enrolment in the register, rather than refusing to apply for registration as a superintendent over these two members. The amendment proposes that Article 2 which reads – the solution to the registration is finally and can be brought against it by administrative dispute, change and read – that a complaint may be made to the Ministry of Culture's affairs against the decision to enter the register within 15 days of the date of receipt. I don't want to explain this any more. The same applies to Article 26. It is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and its Article 36, as counterpart Otto Kishmarton said, and to the European Convention on Human Rights, which prescribes the right of everyone to an effective legal remedy in Article 13. Mr. Novakovic, to take advantage of the opportunity, given that in the law on borrowings and foundations there was the most controversy about borrowings, that those who have a complex from Arena would probably not see Arena as they saw her for a long time, but some political parties have indeed become in charge in terms of this member, since the duties can be formed even without members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47202	The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenić. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Vesna Marjanovic together submitted to the 31st amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, with the correction, in the same text, the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic and MP Aleksandra Jankovic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47203	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I heard right, didn't I, article 34? We have submitted an amendment that is practically the same as Mrs. Aleksandre Jankovic's amendment. Later, we have a lot of amendments on this subject, and what we resent about the Proposer and this text is to say – to the first committee appoints and resolves the duties of the manager and adopts the statutes etc. Basically, the point is that for whoever is the director of the foundation or of the debt, because the term used today is the director of the foundation and the director of the company, it is clear that it is the one who manages the foundation or the task. He's not even called "manager" today. Otherwise, the word "manager" is a word used in Croatian. If you had written "manager" here, that's where we could talk and say -- it's not good, because you don't use that word when it comes to foundations. So you don't have a fund manager. You have the directors. Anyway, he can't be called "manager." What does this show? Somehow it shows that you, I know that Croatia has provided Serbia with a lot of laws that have been translated into Croatian that you are now using those translations. It's not controversial, it's faster. However, you cannot leave the term "manager". Indeed, the word "manager" and "Serbian" are not used. The other day we had a law here on the protection of nature, it seems to me, where the same person or group of people who governs, in that law they were called "controllers", believe it or not. "Government" by natural or natural parks and that was a bad solution. However, what you are proposing is that one who manages or manages the task or foundation in Serbia is called "the manager" is at least scandalous. With these amendments that we've been going through the whole law to the end, wherever you've used the word "manager," we've offered you an amendment to correct that mistake and make it a "director." If you don't want to, you do, it seems to me that the MPs of the SRS have given another variant, where your word "manager" has been suggested to be "manager." You have a choice from two much better solutions than the word "manager."
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47204	Three minutes have been used by the MP's group. The 34th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 34. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 35th amendment in the same text, the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic and MP Aleksandra Jankovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted together to Article 36. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) According to the amendment to article 35, Mr Mico Rogovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47205	It was probably up to the system, considering I answered Article 35. Article 35. The bill refers to the authorities of the departments and foundations and the proposal, which is our position, the position of the SNS is that the position of the 3rd Article 35, which reads – the responsibilities and foundations can also use other names for their bodies – should be deleted. If we talk about who they are and what the authorities are in charge and the foundation, then Section 3 automatically denies attitude 1. Although he is a very discriminatory member, that is, the position of the 2nd member, since the statute also provides for other bodies of foundations and borrowings. In any case, and every context, all three attitudes deny each other. At the very least, it would be the most similar point of view 2 that states that the statute can provide for the authorities of the department and the foundation. The SNS considers that the names of the authority of the responsibilities and the foundation must not be regulated by the provisions of a dissuasive nature for the safety of a third party. The name of the authority must clearly refer to the powers of that authority. In the end, regarding that member, it may happen that in one foundation or in charge, for example, the administrative authority may be the same as in another executive body. That is why I say once again that the said members, or attitudes of the 35th, are in confrontation with one another. In general, legal solutions can, indeed, be limited to this law to a very important area of social life, and these are both intrinsics and foundations. Regardless of a fairly large number of objections and amendments submitted, in the end, the biggest remark is also on this law which, after its adoption, as well as numerous other legal solutions and frameworks, will not be sufficiently applied in practice. We will probably talk in a few years on the same subject as the Law on Delegations, Foundations and Funds, which was adopted in 1998, and because of the situation and the legislative regulations, or non-application did not take place in practice. In principle, regardless of a number of objections and some of the bad members of this law, it is very necessary to adopt this bill that the same provisions, because of the whole legacy and tradition that exists in the Republic of Serbia, are also applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47206	Ten seconds from the parliamentary group. The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47207	My idea was the same as Mrs. Donka Banovic's idea, which is that it is simply not in the spirit of the Serbian language to use the word "manager", not even "manager", as proposals existed, although it was more adequate. The "manager" is something that is more like, for example, the "manager" of the Croatian National Theatre. It's hard to say "manager" of Wolf's duty. If we speak Wolf's language, let's find a more appropriate term. I think it's an amendment where there's no fundamental reason why he can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47208	The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 37 by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 39 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Nikola Žutic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 40a be added after article 40a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the title above Articles 41 and 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Banovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47209	We're still on the same subject, but it seems that the legislator has no ear for this remark, but that's why they have citizens. As my colleague said, the word "manager" may be used for whoever manages the work of the Croatian National Theatre, he is "manager". So, when did you, now I'm talking to the promoter, hear that in Serbia someone who manages the foundation says "manager" of the foundation? "The Manager" of the Dositej Obradovic Foundation, that is what you will call it when you adopt this law, or will be the "manager" of the Vuk Karadzic Foundation. So, while you still have time to talk about this, you should change it, so we say – the director of the task force and the director of the foundation, not the manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47210	The 41st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The title above Articles 42 and 42 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47211	Article 45 provides for the performance of economic activity by officials and foundations. Namely, Article 45 reads as follows: "Employment established to achieve the general objective and the foundation can generate income and direct implementation of economic activity, under the following conditions: 1) that the activity is related to the objectives of the employment and the foundation, 2) that the activity is provided for in the Statute, 3) that it is a secondary activity of the employment and foundation. From the point of view of the SRS and from the aspect of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, it is unacceptable to introduce certain categories that have been expelled for seven or eight years. In particular, liberalisation in business areas, liberalisation in trade areas, in the areas of economic and non-economic activities from the legal system, categories - basic activity and secondary activities - have been expelled. You are now inauguration something that has already disappeared from the legal system. On its behalf, the SRS and I requested that this provision be deleted, i.e. the secondary activity of the asset and the foundation. You have not accepted this amendment, and in your explanation you say this – the amendment is not accepted. The Ratio legis of that provision is to indicate that an employee acting in the public interest and the foundation can directly carry out economic activity in order to obtain added revenue for the achievement of the statute objectives for which it was established, but that the employee and the foundation cannot be established with the aim of obtaining profits, nor the acquisition of profits can be the basic activity of the employee and the foundation. Amendmental orientation: The objective of the amendment is to delete what does not exist in the legal system. You respond negatively to everything that is stated in that amendment and introduce another category, which is, as you say here, that the debt works in the public interest. Where did you predict that in this law? Where's the public interest, where did you show it? Which member points to public interest in the work and operation and achievement of the objectives of the employment and foundation? Nowhere. It's one misunderstanding, it's one misunderstanding, it's me, the sloppy work of the government, and especially the ministries that prepared this. What's left almost everyone undetected, and I have to go back, I'm going to use this as an authorised representative, on the provision of Article 7. I think he's very troubled. I'll read it here. It's about tax exemptions. No one noticed, since it was a very short time to prepare the amendments, so I will read the provision of Article 7. Proposal for a Law: "The funds established for the achievement of the general objective and the foundation are obtained in a frenzy manner shall not be paid taxes established by law". The question I ask myself, and you, too, is which law is it provided for? What are the taxes provided for in the law, which are not to be paid by officials and foundations? Is that the VAT Act? Will the foundation and the debt, when carrying out economic activity, present VAT in its invoice or not? What happens if he doesn't do business? Does it count or not calculate VAT? You are entering the matter of legal regulations that represent the system of this society. But this formulation that you have stated here – established by law, and not by any law or by which types of tax it applies. We have five or six laws, we have 11 tax types that pay citizens and legal persons. What are the taxes on this decision? So these are arbitrary. How will this be interpreted in practice? This remains undefined, this remains open. The proposal will have to be followed later, giving some interpretations, and in particular inspection services that will operate under this law, there will be a lot of problems to get an adequate interpretation of which these legal provisions apply. On the other hand, what will this produce in practice? If you release everything, and even those foundations and liabilities that carry out economic activity, as you say – as a secondary activity, it will be a good valve to form indemnities, foundations that will be released from paying all social obligations, and in this way we will have a huge waste of funds on this basis, only because you have not been adequately treated and regulated in the position of a particular entity, in this case of the borrowing and foundation, that they can achieve certain benefits, and in this case it is a failure to pay taxes and contributions. This legal void, this hole that exists in this legal formulation, must be closed as soon as possible. It's not too late. Transfer this to the Minister to remove it because we will surely have problems, as we have in all other legal regulations, and this is particularly dangerous in taxes. We in legal practice have a lot of legal gaps, especially the tax administration knows, because it has a practice helmet and simply cannot close all valves that occur in practical life, in terms of tax avoidance, obligations, compensation, taxi etc. In this case, it's taxes. Taxes are the most serious category that burdens natural and legal persons and everything we miss in the legal system, it's going down on our heads tomorrow in practical application.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47212	As an authorised representative, you have 30 seconds left. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 45th amendment. The word is Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47213	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as Mr. Buha said a long time ago about this member, and the SNS recognized a great gap and when it came to carrying out the business of the task. It is truly amazing that only one member of the law treats this area that can bring about a series of abuses, so the conditions that are set themselves, as well as that definition of secondary activity, are extremely problematic. It is problematic who can assess whether any activity is secondary, whether it is the main one, on which it will be determined, and, as my predecessor said, whether this activity, the income from that activity will be taxed, which part of the income, whether it enters into the business system of Serbia, and aware of these problems that it can cause, as well as the damages to third parties who eventually enter into the employment and foundation affairs, the SNS is when it comes to the conditions for performing business activities proposed that in any case this activity should be entered into the register. If it is not included in the register, we believe that there is a much greater possibility of abuse, that also third parties who enter into some legal relationship with foundations and responsibilities can be led astray to harm them, and in some ways this law is in collapsing with the company law, so that, in some future period, it will be necessary to intervene and to adopt amendments and amendments to the law on foundations and borrowings right here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47214	The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47215	In Article 49, there is another institute that is not in any way reasoned and highly mentioned, which is responsibility. The responsibility for the work of the funds, the foundation, is almost not defined by this law. The responsibility of the founder himself, the responsibility of the manager, the responsibility of the board members, it had to be defined much more clearly in this law and that would be the reason, as I said, for many abuses, when it comes to the application of this law. What we as SNS, trying to fix this text of the law, is that both founder and manager and board members must match their entire assets. What does it mean? They are responsible? That doesn't mean anything in this law if that responsibility isn't defined, unless it's regulated. I think in this way we create in the state a legal uncertainty like I said, we create a space for abuses, because this member, as given by the promoter, there is no responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47216	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 51st amendment. The word is Dr. Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47217	Before I move on to the amendment, I want to say that I believe that with this law on borrowings and foundations, we may have gone wrong, that the restitution law was first to be passed, and since it's been 60 years and a few years since the communist kidnapping and 20 years already living in a multiparty system, it's about time, and I think we're also bound to pass the law on restitution, that the property that owns those owners is coming back. I'm afraid in that case, a large part of the current politicians would be in trouble because they live in other people's homes or in houses that own their own. I hope, however, that the Government will also understand that we are bound by these alleged European integrations to pass this restitution law, because all the countries have passed this law. This Article 51 refers to the conditions and method of eradicating duties and foundations and refers to point 5 and paragraph 6. Point 5 of Article 51(2), which was given by the applicant, is that the termination, i.e. the removal from the register, shall be provided that the legal act determines the futility of the decision on the registration of the employee or the foundation in the register. We propose that the whole position be changed and that the solution to delete from the register can be rejected within 15 days of the date of receipt of the complaint to the ministry responsible for cultural affairs. Enough of this explanation was said by Otto Kishmarton, I won't repeat, but this solution to the proposal is contrary to Article 36(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees that everyone has the right to appeal and another remedy against a decision that decides on his right, obligations and a law-based interest. In this case, by removing duties from the foundation or register, it is certainly decided on the right of the founder. The right to conduct an administrative dispute against final and individual acts is also guaranteed by the Constitution, Article 198(2), but that right does not exclude the right to appeal. So that solution is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, which prescribes the right of everyone to an effective legal remedy in Article 13. That's about point 5. Item 6 is quite short, we suggest that in front of the words – solution, add word – finally. What's this about? It is said here – the solution to delete from the Register, then it would be – the final solution to delete from the Register, which is brought by the Registerer, is finally and then can be triggered by an administrative dispute. And this position 6 would be in line with the amended point 5 that we have proposed in this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47218	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 53rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47219	We asked for a change in Article 53(3) after saying "Article 12(2) of this Law". I'll read the integral version to make it clearer. Article 53 paragraph 3 says – if the value of the underlying assets or the debt is reduced so that it no longer fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 12(2) of this Act, and there is the proposing stopped, and we have suggested that it be added here – in a continuity of six months – does not initiate the liquidation procedure, the borrowing changes the legal form in the form of the foundation. The applicant of this amendment considers that in the event that the underlying assets of the asset are reduced under the law of the prescribed minimum, it is necessary to give the debtor an appropriate time limit, and in this case there is no time limit, to provide the necessary assets, before the liquidation procedure and the change of legal form would be approached. The granting of such a deadline may incentivise the collection of funds for the achievement of the objectives of the borrowing, while referring to the change of legal form to the foundation would be detimulative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47220	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, submitted together to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, submitted together to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 57th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47221	This is really an amendment that the promoter was supposed to accept, but I realized too late how to accept the amendment, if your name is Sasha or Simo, but if your name is Donka, Milan, Milica, etc., then these amendments are being rejected. This amendment concerns a member who speaks of enrolment in foreign delegations and foundations. In addition to everything provided for here, you say that a certified translation of the copy of the founding act or statute, from which the objectives of the foreign borrowing and foundation are visible, then a photocopy of the passport, etc. So, you're proposing to submit an certified translation of the report. What do we suggest? We propose to submit an certified translation of the founding act or statutes, so the complete document, so I don't know why you didn't adopt this at all. I guess the Ministry of Culture is also in the interest of finding out what's in the whole founding act. Why would that be just a copy? It's not a great effort to translate one statute or founding act, and you're just saying a copy. By the way, I got a weird explanation why you're refusing this. I repeat again, we suggest that the complete document be translated and that you get that certified translation, and you only get one piece of that document. Then you answer to me here that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why domestic regulations cannot regulate the contents of the founding act or the statutes of foreign borrowing, or the foundation. We did not suggest anything of this kind, but simply to take and to have a complete translation, translation of a founding act, or document.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47222	Simo Vukovic submitted an amendment to Article 57. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted to the 58th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs to the 60th Amendment has submitted to Serbia's Progressive Group. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of ours refers to Article 60 and is similar to the amendments that we have had to the article. 26, 28 and 51, and this Article of the 60th refers to the removal from the register of the representation of foreign responsibilities and foundations. For the sake of the public, I comment that in the first position exactly the situations are foreseen when the representation of the foreign office and the foundation is deleted from the register. Then point 2 is said that the delete solution is made by the registrar. The third is said to be – this solution is final and an administrative dispute can be initiated against it. We, as mentioned in previous amendments that my colleagues have explained, everywhere where there has been a comment that the solution is finally and in this amendment we propose that this position in Article 60, paragraph 3, be changed and that it is said – against the resolution on the erasure of the foreign office representation and the foundation from the register of foreign employees and the foundation can be made known within 15 days of the date of receipt to the ministry responsible for cultural affairs. We were generally consistent about these members, and my colleagues argued, not to go into details, that basically the solution in this bill was contrary to Article 36(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. The conduct of the administrative dispute, which is referred to in all four members of this law by one who should properly lodge an appeal against the solution, does not exclude the appeal, so that we wanted not to rule out the right to appeal by referring to administrative proceedings or administrative disputes. Indeed, the government needed all these four amendments relating to the possibility of these complaints and the administrative dispute to be accepted, because absolutely the concept of the law is not changed, and the amendments are absolutely in line with the Constitution and would only improve, they would not reconsider any concept of any member who is related to this procedure concerning registration, rejection of registration or erasure of registration. This amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47224	The 62nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 66th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 68th Amendment were submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sasa Milenic submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Simo Vukovic submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 70th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: PROPOSING OF THE MARIBOR D.D, EUROBANK EFG A.D. BEOGRAD, VOJVODJANSKE BANK A.D. NEW USA, HYPO-ALPE-ADRIA BANK A.D. BELASTE BANK A.D. NOVA AND THE SOCIET GeneralE BANCA INTES A.D. BELGRAD, UNICREDIT BANK SRBIA A.D. BEOGRAD, RAIFFEISEN BANK A.D. BELUSTE GENERALE SRBIA A.D. BELAVORK A.D. BELAVRIK A.D. BALK SERK.D. BELAVIK BALK SIRK SRIĆA BALK SERK A.D. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Good evening. I welcome Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, my colleague Marina Toman has proposed to the government of the Republic of Serbia a very constructive amendment. We asked you to spend money on capital spending or possibly refinance debt rather than finance budget deficits. What could it be, here's what you decide, as we don't even know what money you're going to spend on, which are already essentially spent and you know it well. You could have made a decision of your own free will, but not to spend money on funding the budget deficit, but for something smart, for something you say in science, the equivalent of material value. Then indeed, your MPs from the Democratic Party, when they speak in the Assembly and say they want to leave something for generations to come, to really leave them with something that is materially tangible, not just debts, that is. All together, it hurts our heads. What's a fundamental problem here is that they won't even welcome the start of paying back these debts, but they're going to do it by someone else, and in that sense we haven't created the possibility of this credit debt being refinanced under such unfavourable conditions. And the question arises, what conditions are you in charge of, if these interest rates return? Our discussion with you somehow always remains undecided, we don't get answers to all the questions, since in the principle debate after all the MPs, we don't have the opportunity to ask you a lot of questions, in that sense I'm going to ask some questions that I asked and last time in the principle debate, and as far as this loan is concerned, we didn't get an answer to them. I'd like you to give us an answer, but before we get to those questions, of course I have a few things to say. Today, one of your colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia at a press conference, announcing the adoption of the new budget, said that you were financially disciplined, Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, and that it was fortunate that people in the government were financially disciplined and that man said that, hopefully, the budget rebalance would be adopted unanimously. Imagine. We're now interested in what state in the country would be if you were undisciplined? Can you imagine that? You see, when in the state of rebalancing, the sixth budget rebalance that the government adopts, or the budget, the decision on the budget, which the government adopts in these circumstances, and in this way announce, then really this can get continuity in one debate since last night, in which we have indeed found, we Serbian Radical Party MPs, that there is definitely no system here anymore, and that everyone has the right and freedom, even at the most responsible function, to say both what they want and how they want. Unlike him, I have to accept and admit, perhaps a little ironically, you today couldn't stop your honesty from adopting budget rebalancing and you said exactly what the state is -- you're saving as much as you can, and you're spending as much as you have to. I thought you said that, too. In a normal and serious home state, you save as much as you have to, and you spend as much as you can. If you had spent as much as you could, we wouldn't have withdrawn these loans, or maybe we wouldn't have withdrawn as much credit as we're withdrawing, but in any case you were obliged and obliged as the Government of the Republic of Serbia to save as much as this country has to. I don't argue that knowledge of such things didn't praise you. I suppose you had, but the fundamental problem of this country is the government, the political will, or, rather, the political weaknesses where you gathered together and that united you two years ago. We, Mrs Dragutinovic, and last night discussed some laws that oppose Slobodan Milosavljevic's statements, which definitely question our financial certainty in the coming year. The question arises – what is discipline, what is it that this government can qualify as discipline when it comes to public and fiscal spending finance? When this loan is specifically concerned, last time I asked and read the Public Procurement Act – why was the procurement procedure applied, without a public call? For what? It's a public procurement procedure that only takes place when they're an elemental accident. That's what the law says, Article 24. For what? What was it that couldn't be predicted? Why budget projections, what's the memorandum of fiscal responsibility now, if you couldn't predict all this? Why has the Government of the Republic of Serbia decided to conduct such a procurement procedure? How was it possible for one party to get interest rate 4.25, that it would be the smallest, or 4.20, and for other charters all the way up to 5.30. And that's what we told you in the principle debate, the interest that the state owed is the interest that banks give to those who deposit funds in the week's savings. Credits weren't good. We're interested in how on the other hand it's possible to get a loan under great conditions, with an interest rate of 3% and to brag that we're lucky to have those loans? We didn't dispute that loan, we didn't even submit to the amendment, not because we think, unlike you, we don't think it's the only way out of the crisis. In one debate you said - the state is in debt in crisis. The state can be in charge, maybe even better you know, and these are short-term duties, that's something that's inexplicable, long-term this is all completely wrong. How is it possible to get a 30 million-dollar loan on this kind of pay-off time, under such interest conditions, and the state for nothing, for this credit that's good and decent we get material value as reciprocity, we get something that the administration of customs will stay for use and availability, and for the money that has already been spent in the government, even though you say you were financially responsible, you take credit at absolutely unfavourable interest rates? We're all interested in what a certainty it is, if I'd read your statement after the adoption of the budget and had the opportunity to know what you'd say in the morning, I'd be far less responsible to the press today, when asked if they'd be waiting for us in the next year's bankruptcy. I am convinced that you as finance minister don't know it today, and you can't say with certainty that it won't be because of the political and financial defamation of those who will spend money from the Republic of Serbia's budget in the pre-election year. It is an unfortunate country where a strategic economic branch develops through budget rebalance. We're investing in agriculture. The first thing we're going to do is we're going to make someone lord and become a monopoly on the milk market, and then the same one is going to harass us, and then we're going to give in to the pressures, and we're going to increase our subsidies to the burden of the budget, and that circle goes to who knows where. Today, ministers are praised – here, we have increased investments and subsidies to agriculture, and no one is asking small milk producers what situation you have put them in with regulations, which, with this servial attitude towards monopolies, which you have made for the monopolies in the government, which you have given that position, as they do today. What do we expect from everything we talk about next week? We're supposed to have budget rebalances. Do you have any idea what's going on inside, what all the funds we're going through with these loans, from local self-government, to the province, to public enterprises? What are all the projects being spent on? What projects do local self-governments face before you in the government? You don't have the mechanisms to stop them, because you're weak inside the government, because project applicants drill the government at every turn, where they arrive and however they arrive. The fact that you have weaknesses doesn't interest us in the SRS, it doesn't care, but the problem is that we all feel together the burden of the financial crisis. We're not responsible and we're not responsible, but we don't have a mechanism to protect ourselves right now, because you have 126. When it comes to this law, this borrowing, our insistence was not so much an address to the government, but an attempt to awaken their conscience that they were not obliged to support everything you suggest. We're not people who don't understand what a loan is, what a deficit is, and we don't take a stand on these loans and your behaviour based on whether or not the deficit or debt should be 40%, 50%, 60%, whether or not to consider Mastricht. The country's economic power is in charge of all of us. We listen here this morning from Mrs. Kalanovic – exports grew with this state. Ten European states cited Mrs Kalanovic. The surplus is growing. Now, where did inflation come from? Where did the dinar fall from? Where does the need for a loan come from? You know that well, but you have no option or maybe will or weakness, I don't even know, call it what you want, to reason with those people who spend the money of the taxpayers of this country, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's devastating to us, and we can't accept that. On the other hand, the question arises why do not capital spending funds withdraw? You're trying to convince us that the loans with the Chinese and the Russians are favourable. Why aren't they withdrawn? The government didn't do any projects. I don't know if that's how it is now. You recently had ratified and approved funds in the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Republic of Serbia does not withdraw them because there are no projects. Wherever the Republic of Serbia is forced into order and gradually enters a strategic spending of money that will have an effect in five years, there are weaknesses, there are no results. But wherever the syphilic pulls out the money to spend it from today to tomorrow, there's everyone in the front and second lines. How any credit comes from an IMF or from another bank, or from business banks, hats and fists moving into interventions. Now, that's political pragmatism, that leads the state to bankruptcy, that leads the state to the sun, that's something that can't provide certainty to anyone in this country who wants to live. We're convinced, whatever you say, you don't have the right answers. You don't have the right answers because there's no political will. Such behaviour, such weaknesses, Madam Minister, the government of the Republic of Serbia has denied citizens the right to trust in institutions, but completely. Taxes are not collected adequately, public procurement is what they are. There are no mechanisms to stand up to them. There's no balance. What we have left – loans. No country in the crisis has ever gone out of debt in the crisis. Neither will ours, and this is completely wrong and missed. That's why we proposed this amendment to spend money on something that's tangible. The corridors are standing. We open four times one share, laugh and laugh at ourselves, send a message to the world as we are – no, irresponsible, irresponsible, and then ask ourselves where we are, what we are, and why it's like this. You were absolutely right, Madam Minister, only if someone tried to understand you and wanted to understand what you said was we spent as much as we could, or had to, and we only saved as much as we could. To save the seas, but this government is obviously not prepared for such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47226	The time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47227	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we believe this amendment should be accepted, as should the amendment of Miss Marine Toman. You have seen, colleague Stevanovic has shown very convincingly why we too have worked very hard to try to correct this bad law and these bad loans at least partially our amendments. Of course, we have no illusions that you will accept this, but it should be said that our arguments are based, above all, on economic benefits, that there are no ideologies in them but that it is clearly seen in Article 1 of this law that there is a monopoly of foreign banks in the Republic of Serbia, and above all I think about EU banks, since it is clear that this law is only about banks coming from the EU. In fact, the former governor admitted, they have about 70% of the financial market in Serbia, which you will admit is not common in one normal situation. Also, as counterpart Stevanovic said, it is not a development loan, it is seen in the reasoning of the law, but rather a 250m-euro loan, which is intended for both the budget deficit and debt refinance, which shows, regardless of what the government and the National Bank say is a public debt somewhere within acceptable criteria, that it is not true. I'm sure you know and remember that in 1983 there was a sovereignization of the SFRY debt in this same room, where a public and private debt was combined, and it came to pass that the debt was passed on to the citizens. Everyone remembers those famous couple-unpar variations for transportation, shortages of basic foods, etc. Also, as Mr. Stevanovic said, it is not clear that this law, by emergency procedure, is passed, which is not developed and the loans are not developmental, and we have on the other hand a credit arrangement that is not completed by the end with the Russian Federation of $800m, where we see again, as last year, that the problem is documentation. You will admit that this is a little strange and suggests that there may be a double archinae which, under the phrase that the EU has no alternative, leads to the country's economic interest being put aside, which is not good. We also see that in this kind of consortium of these banks and the Hipo Alpe Adria Bank, which is nationalised in fact, you know for sure that this process continues, and that the Austrian state is very concerned about this bank, and that it gave it guarantees of about 1.5 billion euros in October 2010, according to the Austrian press. So, the completely opposite processes of those that are happening in this country, and that is another argument that shows that not only should foreign banks be in debt, but that the domestic banking sector, which is minimal and in fact only based on the Commercial Bank, should be developed, but we see that there is information from the Government that the Commercial Bank will also sell the EIB, which is catastrophic. The purpose of this law is to reduce the budget deficit. That's what you've said several times and your colleagues, that it's about fulfilling the IMF and the EU's mandate, that the deficit is down to 4.8%, even less in next year, and in 2012 to 2.8%, if I'm not mistaken. I think it's completely unrealistic for a country like this that has economic problems and we all admit that the Stability Pact, which is not applied in the EU, is being applied. Please give me one argument as to how it is possible for most EU countries to have a greater budget deficit than those famous 3%, and in a country which is mildly said in transition problems, something is applied which is completely unrealistic and is sufficient just to indicate, I will not list the famous examples of Greece and Ireland, with 14% and 15% of GDP deficits in the budget, a country that is not mentioned as problematic, and that is the UK. It has 11.4% of GDP deficits in 2009. So much greater deficit than Serbia has. So there's no argument for, in particular, that our citizens will suffer on their backs, reducing the deficits at all costs, so to speak. Also, France, which is with Germany one of the EU's drivers, had a 7.5% deficit in 2009, according to official data from the EU statistical institution, again means a greater deficit than Serbia. So, this Stability Pact -- of course, there's the Netherlands with 5.4%, Italy with 5.4%, and Germany alone had about 3% of the EU's more serious countries, which you're after -- for Roman Prodi, you know for sure, the former President of the European Commission, is a stupid idea, and I quote literally his 2002 statement. He says it is not flexible and that it is a kind of dogma that is impossible to apply in practice. So it's completely unclear why you're in charge of such a huge number, under such unfavourable interest that is variable, that no one can predict, how the economic crisis is going to continue, it can easily happen from 1% to 5% again, as it was in 2002. When we add to that margins that are practically also very unfavourable, we're going to get interest somewhere around 7%. Because, for example, the Intez bank in this loan is asking for interest from around 5.30%, if I'm not mistaken, and we're going to get to the interest of several tens of millions of euros. Yet you will admit, at a time when the government cannot spare more than 10m euros for the victims in the King, that it is a huge figure for one such poor country. Therefore, I do not think that this loan is at all favourable and that the changing interest is the conditions of the monopoly of these foreign EU banks in this loan are unfavourable. And so, of course, we won't vote for this law and we tried to say again that through our amendments we say there are other ways to reduce that budget deficit. What other ways are these? It's enough to see the data from January to September this year and you'll see that just the banks in RS have earned, somewhere they have a profit that has been increased by 22% compared to last year and that they have a profit of around 200m euros. It is this Inteza Bank, which is mentioned here as a trustee with the worst possible conditions, with interest reaching 7%, that has earned about 60m euros from January this year to September this year. We again appeal to you to show at least part of the economic and political courage, not you personally, but the government in general, as the Hungarian prime minister has shown, and to try to make up for that hole in the budget by taxing the sector that is most successful, which is foreign banks in this country, because no part of the economy or any part of society has such a successful 22% growth, as do these banks that are mentioned in this law. Therefore, the edge of this budget reduction and the unrealistic goal of the Stability Pact, which is not applied in the EU by almost any country, applied in Serbia, which is not even an EU candidate, should be measured against those who have higher money, which are foreign banks headed by the Inteza Bank. I think it has been fully declassified in this law, and I see that it has become a kind of manoeuvre, to insert some solemn statement of attachment to Aki communiqué, because the EU and countries applying the euro do not apply their main rules. I think because the law is bad and that borrowing is bad and that it needs to be adapted to the real situation, and the real situation at this point is that the budget deficit is going to grow regardless of the continued borrowing because there is no production. Production has not yet reached the 1998 industrial one, which is, you will admit, frightening data and disturbing. In a daily newspaper "Blic", data came out a few days ago that only on commissions, meaning non-transparent services, banks in RS earned about 150m euros this year. Once again, we have a kind of income that is not taxed and that needs to be focused on. As for this huge income that foreign banks have, I would recommend you look at the text of economist Zdravkovic, who says you need to introduce a 0.5% tax on currency transactions and you will only get a 285m-euro figure for the budget. When you compare those 285m euros with these 250m non-interest loans, you will get a figure that is equivalent and enough to meet that budget deficit. Finally, and by doing so, I appeal again to you as an expert and to someone who runs finance in this government to show at least partially courage as other countries that are already in the EU, such as Hungary, which apply after a negative experience with the IMF and the EU, courageous, thinking and measures that benefit their people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47228	Ten minutes and 10 seconds of MP time have been used. Before I close the search, I ask if anyone who hasn't used their right to a word in search of particulars or has time for word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANJ GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE USE OF THE SOCIETY OF THE GENERAL BANK OF SERBIA A.D. BELGRADE AND UNICREDIT BANK OF SERBIA A.D. BELGRADE BY THE DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCIONAL SOCIETY OF THE GENERAL BANK OF SERBIA A.D. BELGRAD (Significe) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Tomislav Nikolic, JORGANKA TabAković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Knezović, Saša Knez, Zoranka Tabaković, Zorana Antimić and Zoran Mašić, Bora Mira Mira Milić, Bora Milić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47229	It is clear why these laws are connected and this is about a new RS debt and a new guarantee. However, it appears to be a single manner. I'm going to paraphrase a famous saying about the ease of borrowing. It's a very important area like traffic. You certainly know that it brings about 10% of GDP to the EU, which is a huge number, and in those 10% that are around 1000 billion euros there is also air traffic that this loan is talking about. Therefore, it is an area that needs to be monitored closely by the state, to make every effort to restore traffic to the benefit of citizens. However, as if he had become a manoeuvre that there are two kinds of realities, one virtual - the EU has no alternative, and one in practice that exists in the EU. This is re-expression in this loan that owes the Republic of Serbia 40m euros, if I'm not mistaken. Why are we in a position for a national carrier such as JAT to be in debt and in fact to be saved from bankruptcy or bankruptcy, it's more than clear if you look at the last two or three years of what's happened to the national air carrier. In this context, I must remind myself that in 2007 the Russian air carrier offered the best option to take over the national air carrier and, if I am not mistaken, then the Aeroflot was offered to take over all employees, to take over the entire fleet, to modernise the fleet and to raise the level of business to one new, better level. For obvious political reasons, however, there was no such thing. And now after two and a half years, we've come into a situation where we have to be in debt. The government of the Republic of Serbia is in charge of saving JAT. It is again a consequence of the phrase that the EU has no alternative. We would say that the EU puts itself here before economic interests, which is catastrophic and what is reflected in the JAT case discussed by this law. You have also seen, you know for a fact that there is no free market in the EU in this area of credit. I'll remind you just for example Al Italy, which couldn't establish a line between Paris and New York, because the two governments in France and the U.S. have agreed to have a monopoly of their carriers. Let's not talk about subsidies. Not to mention the 2002 European Court of Justice verdict condemning the agreement between the two governments. In particular, if there is one practice that is contrary to Aki's EU communicator, I see no reason why our country would not behave in this way and protect its air carrier. Unfortunately, we have come into a situation to take credit for the rescue of a single company that could have been restructured by the Russian airline in a way that has a strategic partnership with Aeroflot, which has a fleet of 105 aircraft somewhere, and these are the most modern planes, as well as Erbas and Boing, which has a representative office in some 50 countries and that would certainly lead to JAT’s operations and debts, which are certainly large and which have led to this loan, the figure of about 50 million euros was mentioned in the public opinion, down to the least possible extent and that JAT’s business is raised to a higher level. However, as one former minister has said, it is precisely EU law to ban the sale of JAT to a Russian partner. We have come to the conclusion that, because of the free sky agreement, we now have a situation where the national air carrier is going down and that the government has to take credit, in fact, to save this air carrier. Is this due to the fact that the privatisation advisor was the investment bank Rothschild and the fact that this manner is applied to Telecom with the City Group, it's something that is not difficult to conclude and what a special analysis is needed, but at this point we won't get into it. Anyway, we think this is the completely wrong way for the Republic of Serbia to be in charge of 50m euros. We believe the government should apply economic interest. The economic interest in this case is not taking credit, it is not one type of fulfilling EU orders, but to renew negotiations with Aeroflot and to try to save what can be saved, as it has been two and a half years and the JAT position has already collapsed, as well as the position of employees. In that sense, we are against this loan law. We appeal to you again to show a kind of economic interest, a kind of economic courage, to restore negotiations with Aeroflot and to raise JAT on your feet in one real and economic way, and not by further borrowing, which will lead to a growing and larger economic crisis again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47230	Four minutes of MP time was used. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47231	Mrs Dragutinović, judging by what you said in the principle debate, and regarding this law, namely this loan, position and position of JAT and the government's intention to be guaranteed 51m euros, we are deeply convinced that you are intimately sharing the opinion with us that this is completely wrong. In the principle debate, you said you were identified for a model made by Switzerland with its national company, allowed, made it possible and let it go bankrupt. If you're interested in such a thing, for Switzerland, we ask you, why, if you weren't ready to privatize public enterprises, to enter the fundamental structural reform of the public sector, why don't you let JAT go bankrupt? If he's a strategic national interest, if that's how the state assessed it, why did we put him in the position he was in? Why are we deciding on a loan that can't be remedied and looked at? You know that well, you know that from IFC and Rothschild. Two studies were done. Now we've heard that we're looking for a third, third assessment and privatisation strategy, or restructuring we're going to do. We can't find in an economic, political and any logic the answer why, this is basically the debt of the state, this is no guarantee of the state, you know well that this debt will take over, you accept this? Tell us the name and name of whoever forced you to do it, not you, but the government? Say the name of the party, say the name of the lobby, of the company, of the company, of the group, who can force this country to do such a thing? The state a la map takes over a 51m-euro debt on itself. It is clear in the strategy what this company can put on its feet and ensure its rentability. What you're doing is completely against it. This is a sick economic compromise. This was made by government. We're interested in what it costs 51 million euros? You can't just say one word, an argument in defense of this loan, to say, in which you will believe. I don't blame Milivojevic for anything, you don't understand. This is serious stuff. Someone's playing with perspective. Is that what you leave us to inherit? Fifty-one million debt, in addition to everything else for an air carrier that you can't take care of and get on your feet, which since 2007, we've found a strategic partner. When the politics of the Republic of Serbia, the government was responsible for exploiting Russia, here's the final thing. The Russians are coming, they bought this, like, it's over and it's over. Nothing's done, it's gone bad. That's what I was talking about in the principle debate. The director who kept all the bad manners has changed. He brought in marketing, a marketing consultant, which is true in a working relationship with another company and made a deal with him at 220 thousand dinars a month. You, Mrs Dragutinović, say you save as much as you can. We're not saving as much as we can, so three marketing advisors came in with a salary of 120-150. Today, Mrs Dragutinovic, which may not have anything to do with this, the mayor of Kragujevac has a higher salary than the president of the state. We're not saving as much as we can. The town of Nis is Mrs Dragutinovic in a minus 380,000 euros. There's DOS in power. Do you know why? Because they went into a crazy sub-financing project at the airport. Then the mayor said – when he drove into the long town of Nis, no one did a serious strategy and analysis for such an arrangement. We say - we save as much as we can. We don't save as much as we can, we don't take care of what's ours. Yesterday in law, we are required here to protect the national economy. Do you know how we protect her? We deny local self-government in underdeveloped and devasted areas of incentive for projects in the field of tourism, unless they are staffed and able to provide participation on their part. Before that, we took away their transfer funds. We're not saving as much as we can, and what we're denying, we're doing wrong, or you're doing wrong. All the mayors in this country have a higher salary than the President of the Republic. I don't care about the President of the Republic, I'm talking about their behavior. Is it possible that the state doesn't have a mechanism to deal with it, to stand up to it? The subject of butchering and the link to the media is only the people's MPs, only the ones who sit here. I don't want to defend you who make up most, but this home seems to me to be the most saved of all state institutions. Do you know what the average salary of the Flight Control Agency is: 2,300 euros and the highest is 5,000 euros. Do you know what the Agency gentlemen say? You know, we don't take it from the budget, we make it on the market. Who gave them that market, that market and the game? Monopoly, the state gave them the opportunity to work. They've earned it. We say we save as much as we can. Political and economic bahanalia at the airport, i.e. in JAT, and now we will take 51m euros. In doing so, the state announces sales, restructuring, but how? By leaving his debts to the state, so he'll build a new company, we said the same thing, with $400,000 founding role, so, Mr. Milivojevic, you'll be able to transfer everything that's worth to that company -- optimal number of employees, good contracts, good slots, good property, and you'll sell it. My generation and your generation will pay back the debts of this 51 million that you will raise your hand for, not even thinking about what's going on or what's going on. You, along with us, are colleagues from the SRS, their control. You don't have to accept this. I'm not talking to you, I'm sorry, I'm looking that way, I'm talking to everyone who's gonna raise a hand on Tuesday for this. This is ridiculous, this is insane, the minister knows. This is crazy. The minister told us that JAT should go bankrupt, not JAT, but it's a recipe. They could have taken him into bankruptcy in ten years. They were just changing directors and making expenses, deficits, deficits, collapse of economics there. Now we're going to give 51m euros. Who? Who are we giving this to? Why are we giving? Can anyone say that? By serving two planes and three, and by study, we need at least ten new aircraft to have economic justification in perspective. Not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but in perspective. There must be a serious company with which JAT, our national carrier, will get a market and position in both Europe and the world. That's the kind of strategic partner we need. This is really unserious and irresponsible. You don't have to tell us anything, but the public has to know, 51m euros this country is taking over for nothing, and we're all going to take it back to your responsibility, and those who brought JAT into the position where it is will spend that 50 million. Not everything, of course, will be installed, such is our system and public procurement procedures. You can think about what's going on here and how it's going to happen, nepotism, abuses are still in JAT, disaster. That's why the policy system and the state touch the bottom. The government of the Republic of Serbia, composed of a stake and a rope, as it is, in the ambience in which it is, is not a frame to defend the national economy because it is nationally irresponsible and nationally unconscious. The SRS again invites you not to accept such a loan, not to support this in the voting day and that the government really shows responsibility and to catch up with problems that have been made in JAT and which should be dealt with objectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47232	Ten minutes and 14 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47233	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, I have something to say on this subject, and it's very different from what was heard from my predecessor. So we can think about the position Yugoslav airport, formerly JAT, is now a Serbian air carrier house. Now I'm going to make a picturesque comparison. First of all, I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia not to forget who the minister of traffic was in 1999 and in what state the JAT was in in 2000 and just to tell the citizens of Serbia that because of the global economic crisis at the moment, they are bankrupting and failing many well-known, well-known global airlines and have gone literally into bankruptcy and collapse and disappeared from the world sky, and were once very famous, they have a much more powerful and richer state than the Republic of Serbia. So, at home, I have a car mitzubishi pajero. I bought it in 1997, and over time that car traveled many miles and now stands with me in the yard. I'm asking you, Mr. Stevanović, would you buy that car? He's got torn tires, a faulty battery, I haven't turned him on for sure in a year. To activate that car, I need a very small loan, perhaps 1,500-2,000 euros to regulate it and buy new tires, a new battery, a little service, and then I could sell it to you or some other citizen of this country for some amount of money. Now the question is, do I have to let that car go down, because it's probably going down in a year and a half, or do I have to invest some money in it, service that car, and maybe give someone that car to function in and out of service? When we talk about the Flight Control Agency, you know, the Flight Control Agency is not a public company financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The salary at the Flight Control Agency is not determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but determined by international standards. Salaries are not paid from some cost of the country's taxpayers, but are prescribed by international agreements accepted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. We can say -- no more people at the Flight Control Agency will receive salaries of three, four, five, six thousand euros, with a salary of 100 euros. The European Commission for Flight Control, whose European Flight Control Association, whose Serbia, thank Lord God, is a member, will take that money to Serbia and give it to those who pay to their employees, and will tell us – excuse us, you are not able to control your airspace with that salary, so since we have now given you to control the airspace of Montenegro and parts of BiH and some surrounding states, we will now take it from you because you obviously don't need it and maybe it's your party's concept, but I can't accept that concept. The concept of DS is that we have to participate in a competition game, accept the rules of the competition and that these rules of the competition and how we apply them to those institutions and those resources that they give us to manage. We can say – well, we believe that it is the eye, the salary of flight control. In particular, it began to look into the fact that someone, as a taxpayer, had reported himself to Voždovec as a man working in flight control and reported an enormous profit, an enormous tax obligation. You know, when I fill out a tax return, no one checks whether I work in that flight control or not. So some of the data that goes public all the time isn't true. I have to deny them. And on the other hand, when you talk about mayoral salaries, it's not true that mayoral salaries are higher all over Serbia than the president of the Republic. There may be cases like this, but there are cases and there are no higher salaries than the President of the Republic's salary. The mayor in Krusevec has a lower salary, the mayor of Leskovec has a lower salary, the president of the municipality of Cicevic has a lower salary, the president of the municipality of Trstenik has a lower salary, and that is correct. Now, does anyone have a higher salary? Well, you know, I'd leave that to the citizens of that town to give themselves up and they'd say in the local elections. And when someone says you've been ruling this country for ten years, I thank you right now, because DS doesn't rule this country first, but it manages, and my fellow colleagues, as far as I know, we've only been able to manage this country since 2008, and I'm glad that you're prophesying your weakness and our strength, so you see us in power until 2018. So it's very nice, I'm grateful that you recognize us as serious, and you're incapable of changing us from power, but you know we haven't managed this country for ten years in continuity. Mayor Nisa did not inherit the airport in the state he inherited when he took power from the DS, but someone else there was the mayor in Nis, and on the other hand we have here a nonstop attack that the DS needlessly owes the country. Now let me ask you, please, you've done great, but what's your solution to the problem and your concept? Is your solution to a problem like it was in 1999 when we couldn't fly the malts? Although there were no flights at the time, we had sanctions and we could only fly to Podgorica and Tivat. And that was all you could fly out of Belgrade. If you wanted to travel somewhere, you had to go to the airport in Budapest as the closest and fly from there into the world. I think that concept is bad, and that's probably what you think. You think. So I think it is necessary to criticise the government here, but only from the position of reasoned criticism, from the position of arguments and facts, and it is the best criticism that offers solutions. Criticizing only, breaking hands and saying – this is not good, I don't like it at all, it's nice for voters, but it's not good for you. First you have to have a solution, so make a proposal for a solution, so I'll be happy to accept such criticism as constructive, show something better, show something that can solve the problem, fix the situation, and I'll say right away – you remembered this wonderfully, and in the day to vote a calm soul, clean conscience and clean hands I'll press that button. Until then, I can't accept your suggestions or your arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47234	Seven minutes and 30 seconds of MP time used.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47235	As for your mitzubishi, Mr. Milivoevich, I love Japanese vehicles, too. If you take out a loan for the $1,500, to sell it for 700 euros, I don't know what the problem is. With 1,500 euros, you can't make a micubishi and sell it for seven thousand, because everyone smart doesn't keep a car to rot and fail, but thinks about selling it when they start to rot and fail. Now that we're not going down to that ground level of discussion and debate, that's more for coffee and cooking. Mr. Millyvoy, you see, we'd let JAT fail. Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic would let him go bankrupt. That's her attitude, she taught us the example of a Swiss air carrier. Everything would be worth more than what we're doing right now. It's a story about a micubishi. We're pulling 50 million euros, and we can't resuscitate the company, that's the problem. We just said, it's no problem to withdraw money, we didn't attack the loan you took from the Chinese 30 million dollars, not because it's Chinese, not because it's a favourable interest rate, but because you get a material equivalent for it, you get something, you leave something in the inheritance, if not for your children, you leave it to the services. That's rational and meaningful. I'm asking you, what are money withdrawals for, that we continue to fail and lose, both to the values of JAT and to the values of the technique. If there were responsibility and political will among you today, you would do everything, beautiful, smart and successful, to find a partner in the world. You might have found a partner if you had the political will to sell it, and you didn't sell it because you were doing so in terms of coalition capacities, interests, because in JAT and other public enterprises, you were drawing money that you bought the elections that satisfied those who blackmailed you with two or three or five votes. Who controls your JAT today, from which party, what is their political force? You are prepared for everything when it comes to the survival of the Government, or you 126, you may be in charge of this country since 2008, but I would like to remind you of the management of the state when Nemanja Kolesar, Janjusevic, Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic, Goran Novakovic, did so on behalf of your party. Who then managed this country: SRS or DS? Whose chandeliers are these? Whose feathers are they? You forgot very quickly, you'd rather remember the 1990s and two years of participation in the power of the SRS than seven years of government. My intention is not to banalise this debate. You can afford it. Should I remind you how it was stolen at the airport when Minister Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic did? Why don't you tell me who made Corridor 10 at the time you were in charge of Serbia? Whose "Diffens Road" is it? The SRS? Just to remind you, as far as the mayor and president are concerned, I haven't talked about whose mayor, Mayor Vranja, is not yours, so he has a higher salary than the president of Serbia. I'm talking principledly about what the state doesn't have political power, and there are mechanisms and laws to be dealt with with with with with with such illogicalities, and it won't. We're not saving as much as we can and I repeat once again, it's not an airspace market or a mall and there's no private persons and privates involved in the air space race, it's a kind of monopoly. When it comes to salaries, their amount, I only transfer what the chairman of the board of directors of the agency said, I forgot what the man's name is, there's no solidarity. Whose agency is it and whose flight control department is it? Is it a private firm or state-owned, what is it, whose is it? The Association of Citizens, a stock company, is the only state owned to care and discuss them. I am not sorry that these people are receiving, but I am sorry that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been unable to make a decision and resolve the fate of 200 strikers from Surdulica. The government doesn't have to make a decision in their favour, make a decision in favour of the employer, but they're just asking to get rid of them. You're talking about governance, where a Nicovic, who owns the "Cat" from Surdulica, cannot make the state settle 150 million debts in the name of taxes, contributions, wages and everything else he owes to the workers. You know what you do? Take economic advice on Kopalnik, put that same man next to the finance minister and then remind us of 1998 and 1999, who was then the minister and who was the minister when he was the minister. Maybe we were the worst, we took the incompetence mortgage on our backs in 2000. You wiped us out by election. What have you done in the last 10 years? What values have you established here? The values promoted by the Farm and Big Brother? How many companies have you destroyed? What about public enterprises? Why didn't we go into the restrtration process? Why didn't we introduce corporate governance principles into these companies? These are European standards, European values. Let us ask questions, you who promote European values, on what principles is the EU built? On what principles? What are the three pillars of the EU? What are the EU institutions? How many of you would know to name it? You here promote European values. You promote European values in a country where tycoons define economic policy. Please don't. European values in a country where there is no milk. Why isn't there any milk? That's what I was just talking about. You know why? Because the executive government, which manages this country, has allowed those to buy 40% of the milk market, produce milk, and you can do the same to the market, and they can do whatever they want. When he cuts them off, he blackmails the government. The government is dropping, so it has to withdraw a 250m-euro loan to put out the milk market fire. Then the monopolies who make the oil, then blackmail them again, and then they take it and make a new decision on borrowing to put that fire out, and they don't have to do it. They have mechanisms, but they have no political power. Political weakness! Today we have listened here in this House, Mr Milivoevich, as William Montgomery is being attacked. He's being attacked by those who were with him just a few years ago on Christmas and Christmas Day. You applaud, and he says he has a bunch of friends in your party last night. Where does this ship sail? There's no system here, no sense, this country is completely destroyed. The state is a serious matter. You and I or anyone here can argue, but if you were more concerned, first of all, about the state, if more effort was spent to create political compromises here, to talk about the key things in this country, it would be easier for everyone. That implies, Mr. Millyvoy, that you listen and that you do not vote for this kind of madness. This is nonsense, 51m euros is the absolute senselessness to withdraw for a company that, with 51m euros, you can't put in a position to work, work and earn. That's the problem. You have no political wisdom to answer these challenges. I'm telling you, everything else needs to be done, this shouldn't be done. He should let it go bankrupt. He needs to be brought into bankruptcy. Everything needs to be done, but this shouldn't be done. Don't vote in voting day for this bill, this isn't good. That Mrs Dragutinovic knows well, but she has no freedom and courage politically to tell you, and she thinks so and feels it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47236	11 minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47237	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Honored citizens of Serbia, Mr Stevanovicu, 20th MEPs are receiving a salary. Mr. Bora Datonovic and I will give you 70,000 dinars to buy us a "micubishi pajero" to drive home and we will also eat three dinar breads that you have offered Serbia. To show me that there is to buy a "micubishi pajero" for 700 euros, I will celebrate your birthday, stick your photo in that "micubish pajera" to watch you every day and say – you are phenomenal and I will give you immediately to be a minister of trade, but right away. I'll remind you that when you were in power, there was an abundance in Serbia, honey and milk were running down this street, even acidic milk. Mr. Stevanović, these European values you're talking about right now, and it's good to talk, you talked differently when you were in power. The flight control agency, when you were in power, was incometing, Serbian citizens, zero breast marks, as they were then breast-brands in circulation. Watch out, zero breast marks. Today, the flight control agency, when we manage that resource, is earning several hundred million euros. The same monopoly position she had when you were in power and she has the same today. You want to explain to me how you managed to make zero breast marks or zero Swiss francs or zero dollars? Because you were incapable of managing resources, so you've been confronting the whole world, so they've imposed sanctions on us. They did not impose sanctions on us because of our policy, but because of your policy, confrontation with everyone in the world. What were the consequences of these sanctions? JAT couldn't serve his planes for years. You know, Serbian citizens, how does it look when you can't serve one plane because you have an incompetent government with representatives of the SRS, where JAT planes only serve to export your money to Cyprus, not to transport passengers? Looks like those JATs aren't able to fly passengers from our airports, because that suits them. The fleet needs to drive money to Cyprus. And day and day, we don't know where that money is. Citizens of Serbia, as my predecessor said, the state is a serious matter, so you're managing the state does not leave unserious people. Fortunately, I have a very good memory. I know well what Ms. Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic did, but for those who do not know, there is a prosecution in this country and this prosecution has launched an investigation, and let him do the procedure. Everyone who's guilty should answer, but I won't remind you how many of your colleagues are being called to immunity when the D.A.'s office calls them. I don't want to remind you of everything that's been a long time, it's been ten years. The citizens of Serbia know who he is and know that they are worth it in the elections. I'd like to turn a little bit forward, not look much behind us and see what we can do when JAT goes bankrupt. Who will take passengers from Serbia? Here, I'm asking you. Who will ride a 700-euro "chip" or ride a bicycle or otherwise, in accordance with modern world fluids, offer Serbian citizens transportation? There may be a divination or maybe the citizens of Serbia will travel by hitchhiking, fly by balloons. But when JAT goes bankrupt, we lose our plane. On the other hand, if we find now the possibility that during the major global economic crisis we will overcome this crisis, this crisis will not last forever, and I just remind myself that the global economic crisis, I remind the citizens of Serbia and my fellow MPs, the worst view in the automotive industry and air transport. So these are the two branches most affected by the global economic crisis. Now you think someone's coming to buy JAT right now. I doubt anyone will come to buy it in this condition. On the other hand, if someone buys it for a year and it makes it a good job for the citizens of Serbia, if there is a benefit for the state of Serbia, will you say it – we were wrong? Maybe you will, but as you never admit to a mistake, I doubt you will then. Would we be better off in Serbia if you told us – how have we been wrong? No, it won't, because later brains are the most expensive brains. It's a good opposition mind, because now you see very well from the opposition those things you couldn't see while you were in power. I'm just going to remind you when you talk about European values, that, in accordance with the European values of me and in 1999 and 2000, when you were in power, you called yourself a five-colonaire. I admit, I was always the fifth in the milk column, for the rabbit, for the sugar, every morning I was the fifth in the column, because there was no milk, no sugar, no rabbit. You enter the store, and in the supermarket, only the ordered ones along the entire rap bottle of acid water. Ask the citizens of Serbia, they might miss those old days? I doubt they want those good old days back, when you could go into the supermarket and just buy some mineral water. There was nothing else. You remember that and I remember that, and we all know who didn't run the country then, then the country was ruled. After that, few circumstances changed, so the country is managed, so it is also responsible for those resources concerning both rail and air transport, which are related to road transport. Let me remind you what the roads looked like in 1999. I don't know if they were paved by Diffens Road or some other, or a third firm, and I don't know now who's paved the roads, and I only know when I traveled to Valjevo in 1999 and 2000 for a rally for the freedom of Maki, from Krushevac to Valjev, I traveled for five hours, with a mandatory stopover to replace a tire, because it had to break in those holes. Today, both you and I from Vranja and I from Kruševac get to Belgrade much faster than those years. Today, you and I, when we're leaving, it's true, believe me, I was going down that Vranje-Leskovac road, it looked like I was going down the tracks, it was a dum-dum every two meters. If I had been in power, I wouldn't have come to the session of the Serbian Parliament that way. I would say - I deny the support of the ruling majority because it is unable to make way from Vranja to Leskovec. I don't want to go that way every day. That's what I'd say, believe me, and that's where the story would end right now, and then I could talk to my colleagues from the ruling majority. Of course, what you're saying is that we're not banalizing this debate, that I'm not forcing you to go to the auto-market to buy a 700-euro micubishi pair, because you and I both know that's not there. And you and I both know that this car is worth between 6,000 and 7,000 euros on the car market, but let's get back to some very serious things. The flight control agency is a resource that does not use a monopoly position, it is not an association of citizens. She's a member of the European Flight Control Association. When a country, a Serbian citizen, is unable to control its sky, its sky is controlled by other states, that you know as well as I do. The airspace above the country either shuts down and isolates itself, or policies such that instead of passenger planes, NATO planes come to it, and then from above, rather than transporting passengers, these planes pour bombs on Serbian cities. That's how the airspace is operated, so you managed Serbia's airspace, and it took a very long time. The consequences are that both that airport and that JAT was bombed during the time you were in power. Maybe you're proud of that data from your biography, maybe you're proud of that fact from the political engagement of the SRS, but I don't think you have any reason to be proud of anything. On the other hand, if we're talking about JAT again, when we were given sanctions, when you were in power, when you ruled this country, people were buying new planes in the world, training pilots, training flight control, and we were sitting in an iron cage and we couldn't move out of this country because of your policy and of course we stagnated. It now looks like you're asleep at a train station, anywhere in the world, like Brussels, Paris or Moscow, Beijing, and there's a train going 300km an hour, and you're stabbing yourself at the moment he starts leaving the station, and you're like, with two Serbian suitcases glued by tape, you're running after him, you get there. You run out of the stained veins, and out of those suitcases you get all kinds of things, and The Hague, and affairs, and Ratko Mladic, and Radovan Karadzic, and inflation and misery, and you keep running after that train to catch him, and you know you won't catch him, but you still run after him. Will you catch up with him? You won't. Is there another train coming? They will, but the passengers from that train will be far, far ahead of you, while you're trying to reach it and when you lose your timetable, when you lose a step with the world, then you have a failed economy, a failed society, a failed economy, and then all that needs to be recovered. Do you think the Japanese after World War II recovered immediately in 1946, 1947, 1948, or did that recovery last long? You think the Germans recovered very quickly after World War II, the French, the Italians? No, they're not. Now you see, we have been victims of war, and we have come to a house that has been destroyed by your policy, and it is also supported, that this destruction is greater, and by war facts, and of course it takes time for the country to recover, and of course, the citizens of Serbia have no patience at that time, and that time takes indefinitely. We are slowly and patiently building a new system of values. If you don't recognize what system we're building, just buy, go upstairs to the Serbian Parliament Library, look at the headlines of the newspaper, November 18, 1993, then 1997, when you were in power, so 1998, 1999, look at that 18th of November, and I'll remind you what it was all about. Today, the citizens of Serbia, 11 years ago, was a very bad day for Serbia, because already in 1999, and how it felt that the end of your regime was very close and that you were finished, but that the repression against the members of the Resistance was increasing. To remind Serbian citizens of the 1996 magnificent event. On today, protest walks began, and we set out to defend our electoral will. You see, these are all the events that occurred at a time when you were in power, right before your entry into power and after your authority. Now look at this with today's time, it's not great, it can do much better, much more. There is a need for dialogue, both of us and you, absolutely agreed, but we can only accept the moment when certain things in your political programme are denied, regardless of your political consistency, because these things threaten Serbia's state interest. You need to explain to Serbian citizens what major Serbian politics means, how you are going to win the line that is propagated by Vojislav Seselj Karlovac – Virovitica. Will Croatian citizens voluntarily withdraw after the referendum? He won't. Will they let us go in there alone? He won't. That limit can only be achieved by war, and we barely survived that rhetoric in 1999. Is there a need again? Serbian citizens say they won't do it again, but if we can't agree on these big things, let's agree on JAT, we can't. You think he should go bankrupt. We don't think he should go bankrupt. Let's work out some other life stuff, but you're not offering a solution. You're offering demagogy, three dinar bread, a 700-euro Mitsubishi pie. You know, you can't offer a colorful lie to us from the DS and not to the citizens of Serbia. That doesn't go away anymore, that time is a long time behind us. Yes, and I accept every dialogue with you, and I accept every confrontation of facts. Here in parliament it is good to face facts, because citizens see it, that we are facing arguments, but the arguments must be based in real condition in this country. You have no idea what JAT should look like, except to put him into bankruptcy. Why put him in bankruptcy, to fail? What do we do when that JAT goes down? Well, no, she says it doesn't have to go down, that we should be in charge. What do we do when that happens? Then we'll let someone else take a plane to Serbia. Then who's coming? Russian Aeroflot. Is Lufthanza coming or someone else coming and taking the plane? What do you think he'll drive you for free, that he'll show you? Oh, you're from Surdulica, let's make you an airport in Surdulica, so where are you going to go to the Assembly car, what kind of micubichi paero, we'll fly you from Surdulica, especially Lufthanza will open the line for you? They won't tell you, believe me, there isn't one in the world. No one will make you any conveniences, because there are no friends in the world, there are only naked strategic interests in the world. Always, sir, who you don't know. You've only just woken up in this session, and it looks like in life, so you don't know that there's only interest in the world, but only naked strategic interest and nothing else. You see, the difference between us and you is that we really have friends, and you've only made Serbia an enemy and that's a huge difference. The huge difference between us is that we are propagating that system of values based on that system of values that is ruling throughout democratic Europe. With these people, we want to work together and we want to impose our interest on them too, but this interest will not be of interest to the confrontation, to some senseless policy, to utopian politics, to unsustainable policies, but to the achievement of those interests for which we get a mandate from the citizens of Serbia. I will also remind you that DS is the only political party and, I repeat to you Serbian citizens, DS is the only political party that has publicly declared in the election campaign what is a state, and what is the national interest of the citizens of this country and we are trying to make that interest happen, and if you do not know what it is, I will give you the DS election programme to read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47238	Sixteen minutes and 20 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word is Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47239	I remember writing 200,000 new jobs in that election program. You've driven them out of work so much. In the election programme, the slogan was "Kosovo and Serbia". Do your friends force you to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence? Do your friends drive you to regional co-operation with Kosovo institutions? Is that what friends do? You know, Mr. Milivoevich, you may not have enemies in the world, but this country, since you've been in power, has no friends. This country no longer treats anyone seriously, because it no longer takes any planes to realize their interests, because you've given everything a la card on the table. Serbia may have passed the most difficult period in its history in 1998 to 2000. After NATO bombing the Republic of Serbia, Serbia may have been able to recover, after you Serbia will not recover, I am quite sure of that. When it comes to Mr Milivojevic, our programming definitions "Greater Serbia" etc., we will never give up "Greater Serbia." "You know where the borders are in the SRS programme. It does not release us from our obligation to be aware of the political position we are all in today. You were expected to, Mr. Milivojevic, and your authorities to ask Ivo Josipovic, except that you worship him and apologize, to respect the agreements he has undertaken by signing and to enable Serbs who he has driven out of the centuries-old hearths to return to live there, to start in the Republic of Croatia, and through time in the Serbian Krajina, but they are aware of the facts that need and can be expected and therefore do not allow Serbs to return. Instead of insisting on that in our relations with Croatia, you go apologize in Vukovar, then go to Srebrenica, Potocara, but you have no idea that you will go to Petrovdan in Bratunac. It's you. That's how friends, Mr. Milivoevich, don't make it in the world. The borderless flexibility of the state makes a rag. We don't have friends in the world today. That's our problem. I agree there have been mistakes, but I repeat that we paid for these mistakes in the election. You, our two years, Mr. Milivojevic, honor your participation in power with ten years of continued politics. You put a burden on us in 1996, when you protested in the protest walks. Who was stealing your election? What problems have you had with Vojislav Seselj and the SRS? Do you know, Mr. Milivojevic, if you won that Zoran Djindjic Vojislav Seselj did not give the record and congratulate you on your victory in 2000, or Vojislav Kostunica. There is our size and political consistency and respect for democratic and parliamentary values. What did you do, Mr. Milivojevic, when you lost the election in 2008? You've brought a white-world bulument here to convince Hansel Dacic to enter the government with you. You took him into the Socialist International, from America to Brussels everything was put on alert to force Ivica Dacic to keep your authority from Belgrade to the presidency, to the RS. Is that democracy? Is that a political principle? Is that respect for the electoral will of the citizens? He who beats himself, beats himself and gets hurt, politically, of course. You brought down, Mr. Milivojevici, 90 municipalities in Serbia. You forced and blackmailed the Socialists to leave the coalition. It doesn't matter, politics is a process. Everything turns around and everything is spinning, but do you remember what Ivica Dacic, as a feather of the European road to RS today, spoke in the 2008 pre-election campaign – that he will wage war for KIM and that Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic are heroes for him. That same Radovan Karadzic was arrested, his ministry in the government with you, today chasing Ratko Mladic, etc. To go back to a discussion that's on the agenda, you obviously don't understand why we're in charge. Can you understand that with 51 million of our national air carrier can't survive? Do you realize you can't keep him alive economically with that money? You don't understand, you don't understand. We wouldn't argue about this if 51 million were something that's enough. The International Financial Council said it was not in one strategy. Rothschild said it wasn't in another strategy, it wasn't enough. You're saying you're going to save JAT. Ten years you could have saved him, so you didn't save him, not because you couldn't, but you didn't have the political courage and the will to do it. If you're so popular in the world, why don't your friends from the EU come and get it or buy it? You're gonna tell me no one's gonna drive us. I know no one's gonna drive us, no one's gonna drive us, no one's gonna drive us, no one's gonna drive us, no one's gonna drive me, no one's gonna drive you, no one's gonna drive you, no one's gonna drive us, no one's gonna have to pay for it, but this is not the way to do it. That's what this is about. Maybe this is what you're talking about. It's sad, Mr. Milivoevich. You're saying that in 2000, when we were in power, there was no one to serve engines and fleets. Then why are you in charge? To serve the fleet, to service the engines and buy others, so you're in charge. Do you even know why this money retreats? How is it possible after ten years of friendship and opening up to the world that you don't have money? You're talking about shelves, and by yesterday there was a milk shortage after ten years of European Serbia. I don't care about the EU, but it doesn't mean I'm not ready to accept standards that qualify a country seriously, and when you make the country serious, we don't care whether you're in the EU or not. You're going to go to the society of European states, you who process 4% of wastewater after ten years of government? In Sweden, 90% of waste is converted, recycled or converted into energy. Is someone in the family of European states going to take you in? While you prepare this country, the EU will fall apart. These messages are being sent to you, Mr Milivojevic, countries that form the backbone of the EU, from Germany to France, will not suffer fiscal, financial and political irresponsibility. Imagine coming to power next to Greece, Spain and some other states? Who's going to take it, Mr. Millyvoy? No one will. Play more stories – the SRS was in power, money in Cyprus. You found the money, but you left it there. But you can't talk about it because of coalition relations. You know exactly who found them. Don't let these people sit here and show the will to listen to all this, don't burden them with these things. You should know one thing, Mr. Milivojevic, the highway from Leskovec and Vranja doesn't exist today. There's a first-class highway, it's paved at a time when you weren't in power, and the fact that you were squabbling and chasing, you were probably on a train.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47240	Nine minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The word is from Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47241	I accept absolutely your suggestion to interrupt the further debate, but I'll just give you one suggestion. Let's keep the record from the present session and see each other, and thank God we'll see each other in a year and you and me and then see who was right. The citizens of Serbia will see that, and then everything will be crystal clear. So the time ahead is the best witness to the correctness of our policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-18-0.u47242	30 seconds of MP time was used. Does someone who hasn't used their right to say a word or who still has time? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, and pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday 23 November 2010, starting at 11.00 a.m. as the day for voting on all agenda points of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Thank you.
