ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35529	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present at the Hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Aleksandra Jankovic, Mladen Grujic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Dimitrijevic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the National Assembly (specificity) The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarović to Article 18. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have filed this amendment on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group. I must confess that I expected this amendment to be accepted rather than one of those two amendments you've already accepted. I really look forward to the explanation of Mrs Kolundzhija why this amendment has not been accepted, given that parliamentary democracy in Serbia is based on a proportionate system. It is no doubt that we are all party representatives here, such as no doubt that the parties have the right to determine their own representatives. If you want to have some continuity, then the same principles must be applied when selecting the working bodies of the Assembly, as these principles must apply when selecting permanent delegations in international institutions. I'm not saying this by accident. You know there have been a lot of problems in the previous period, but the principle that the party can independently determine its representative in a particular committee has never been questioned. You know that parties and parliamentary groups have no problems when they wish to send a memo, replace one of their members in a particular working body, and that such proposals have always been voted by all parliamentary groups. It was never a question of which opposition and position were divided. However, when it comes to parliamentary delegations in international institutions, you, for my unknown reason, are making a difference that cannot be made, and here you have given a brief provision that says that only the National Assembly chooses parliamentary delegations to international institutions. The point of my amendment is that this principle, which has been in force for years and that no one has questioned, extended to Article 18. In addition to my claim that abuse can occur, I must specify examples from past practice when abuse has already occurred. These abuses are made by the one you sometimes call 'the father of democracy', some have called him 'a rider without saddle', not to enter the story now, but the SRS has had great problems in determining delegations of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because Mr Micunovic has given himself the right not only to determine how many members from which political parties will be in the delegation, while not taking into account the proportionality and equal representation of political parties, the number of mandates each of us has in the National Assembly, but, Mr Micunovic, has gone one step further, in this brutal pursuit of democracy, and has taken even to determine which member of the SRS, or member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will be in that delegation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thus, when a delegation was formed to go to Egypt and to go to the Czech Republic, Mr Micunovic said voluntarily, completely voluntarily, that the SRS would have one representative and that the representative would be Moma Markovic. The SRS has four representatives on the committee, these are Marina Ragus, Ognjen Mihajlovic, Natasa Mihajlovic and Momir Markovic. So, if the principle is determined that they will attend one of each party or another principle, the minimum of rights and the minimum of what the basic democratic principles require is that you SRS inform that there is one place in that and that delegation, and then we, at the meeting of the parliamentary group, determine which one of us will be. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35531	Two minutes and 25 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35532	This amendment is not acceptable, above all, because of the fact that the content of this amendment is the subject of the Rules of Procedure's matter, not the Law on the National Assembly. What has been the rule so far, which this assembly has respected, is that members of permanent delegations are proposing parliamentary groups in proportion to their representation in parliament, and this has always been respected. At the same time, members of the ad hoc delegation shall be designated either by the committees responsible or by the chairman, or by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. So, what you have proposed will be the matter of the Rules of Procedure, but in any case there is a difference which will also be respected in the new Rules of Procedure, which is that there is a difference between how representatives are elected in delegations when it comes to permanent delegations and ad hoc delegations that are very often represented, in fact, or some of the committees or represent parliament in general. In that case, the composition of the delegation shall be established in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35533	The word has a folk MP Dragan Šormaz, so Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35534	There's time, Mr. Sarovic. I don't just know why you're surprised by this reaction and rejection. Namely, I'm using the time of the parliamentary group. And anyway, this whole law, if it were luck, would have signed all 250 MPs and we'd all have brought it, but it's hardly possible to do it here. The whole story of the importance of the institution as the National Assembly and how as the ruling majority, it was the intention of adopting this law that we are in the debate, and I think other parliamentary groups of the opposition, have proved that this is not true, but that this bill, which will come out of it by the Rules of Procedure to which Mrs Kolundji is called, in fact, only to serve the nervous ruling majority who have obviously become nervous about the increasingly difficult situation in the country, which has obviously become nervous over the already collected million signatures, and will be even more, and which she showed yesterday, too, is one great nervous. And I want to say one more thing. And if this law is passed, whether this amendment is accepted or not, the other factors in our society will never apply properly to the National Assembly of Serbia, as it deserves, and will not behave differently than they do today. After yesterday's session when we asked questions to the government, Prime Minister and Ministers, a report from the National Assembly said that the Prime Minister had asked the MP a question, vice versa. In particular, that Prime Minister Cvetkovic asked me a question, but my answer to his question was not released. It's the ratio of RTS, the Public Service, to the National Assembly. I am an MP who does not support this government and Mr Cvetkovic, who, when he speaks, looks at the gallery and not at the MPs, the public in Serbia has the right to hear it. I guess the public in Serbia had the right to hear, and not only those watching the direct transmission of the National Assembly, that Saric was granted citizenship under old laws in another country, when only a change of residence and nothing more was needed, but that this government had given him a new ID card, a new passport, a few days before the affair was launched. Yesterday's trial in Zagreb, "Metals Bank" – The First Montenegrin Bank, Aco Djukanovic, is none of that news?- I'm sorry. It's not news Pajtic and the funds in that bank, it's not news buying that bank. It's not news for RTS buying 50 companies from the arrested Stanaj, who buys the same Darko Saric. That's not news. None of it in the congregation is spoken. It is a relationship to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This parliament serves only the needs and interests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this law strengthens it. With this law you want to fortify it because you are nervous, because you have no support for the people, but only a little more than 126 of you sitting here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35535	It was used three minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Nada Kolundži, authorised representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35536	Unlike the text of the law that is before you where we only, in fact, say that the National Assembly chooses members, not in what way it chooses them, the bill established at the time while the president of the Working Group was Mr Rade Obradovic even had the next provision – the composition of the delegation, the objectives and tasks and visits of the National Assembly delegation determines the competent working body of the Assembly. So, you're even a proposal that was then and that you think is better than ours, and now you're advertising the rule of law in which we didn't go into the law so precisely to determine that it's a competent working body, but in any case, we think it's a question for MP groups and a composition that would suggest MP groups based on their representation, I think it shows at least that you didn't read the law or that what you wanted to say has nothing to do with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35537	The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, so Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35538	I picked up the line, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35539	You have no right to a replica. Would you like to use MPs' time? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35540	I'd like to ask you, Mrs. Comic, to return the time, at least these 11 seconds. So, dear, my lady, Mrs. Kolundjia, I may have accepted this argument of yours, but you will find it very easy to see that your explanation has nothing to do with the truth. You're saying, as far as I understand it, that you accept the principle that delegations in international bodies and working bodies of the Assembly are chosen by agreement, to be elected by consensus. If so, it had to stand as a principle in the Law on the Assembly, and then the Rules of Procedure would be further elaborated. Your argument is unclear, and when read, here, in Article 18, is the broadest formulation, so my intervention was according to Article 18, so that's where we put this one sentence, or half a sentence, we wouldn't have a problem anymore. That you do not fully accept this principle, but only when it comes to working bodies, it is seen later in Articles 27 and 28, because you in Article 28 say that the National Assembly chooses members and deputies of committees, on a proposal from parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs. So it was acceptable for you to say for the board members and deputies, not working bodies, that is an even wider concept, to choose on a proposal from parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs, but it was not acceptable for you to extend that same attitude to working bodies, to committees, to committees and to permanent parliamentary delegations. What is essential, Mrs. Kolundjia, I am not asking whether the ad walk delegations will be elected by the committee responsible, i.e. in this case mentioned by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Here is the question of the principle whether the Committee on Foreign Affairs will choose the members of the delegations in agreement, whether they will choose on the same principle by which the Assembly chooses members of permanent delegations, or whether we will continue to have the will that we had with Mr Micunovic, who is not consulting at all, and let alone, self-determining and arbitraryly determining which member of the SRS will be in an ad hoc delegation, which you will admit, Mrs Kolundzija, is totally unacceptable. Imagine that the chairman of the SRS board, a delegation is formed which your party thinks is important, the DS decides that Hope Kolundžija will go, thinks it will best represent them, and then some committee president from another, opposition, parliamentary group says – Mrs Kolundžija will not go, Srdjan Milivojevic will go. Really, I don't think that's right. Each parliamentary group has the inalienable right to choose its own representatives. As we were able to determine our representatives in the Assembly, as we have the right to appoint representatives in working bodies and in permanent international commissions, we also have the inalienable right to choose our representatives in ad hoc commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35541	Three minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by a representative of the Proposer, the National MP of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35542	I wouldn't return your kindness to say "dear," since I can't feel it at all, but I'd like to refer you to Article 62. Article 62 of the Law says: 'The composition of permanent delegations is determined by the National Assembly... ''Therefore, it is understood that the composition of permanent delegations, on a proposal from parliamentary groups, is determined by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35543	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35544	Madam Chairman, I think I have absolutely the right to replication and I'll explain why.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35545	You have no right to a replica. If you want to use the time of the parliamentary group, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35546	When someone says I haven't read the law and someone says I answered to use it to say something else, it's not a right to a replica? That's not a wrong interpretation? All right, keep doing what you want, the people will tell you theirs very soon. Mrs. Kolundžija, what you read about Mr. Radet Obradovic, vice president of the National Assembly, that only proves the next thing – well, we were willing, we always write what we propose to the Assembly, we write. Who's writing you a declaration about Srebrenica?- I'm sorry. You write it?- I'm sorry. I doubt it. What are you talking about? You wrote this law? No! No! You only adapted this law to the government of the Republic of Serbia because you are nervous. You're nervous because I mentioned Pitiæ, the arrested and convicted Stanoi, with the purchase of the company. You are nervous because it is a political background, in my deep conviction, the case of Saric and what the investigation will show, because the same country later bought Saric in the second half of 2008 and 2009, when you were in power. You gave him a ID, you gave him a passport! It now turns out there is a passport from an EU country, Slovakia, which is demanding that the passport be returned. The bank has worked intensively with Ace Djukanovic, and is now being bought by AP Vojvodina and Bojan Pajtic, while being tried for the murder of Pukanic and testifying about Djukanovic and others, Caneta-Zapac, etc., mentioned. So, all criminals themselves, and I know that some of your officials at the time they were DS members, and you weren't a DS member at the time, but some of them, they were flying his planes around Europe, using them, and now you're saying who he was reading and how he did it. Mrs. Kolundžija, if you wanted, we could compare these suggestions, sit down and talk about them, and we would certainly give up on Mr. Radet Obradovic's solution, if it were worse than yours. When did the DSS not show in the work of the Assembly, when it was properly and honestly done, that it wanted to cooperate and bring something into the interest of this Parliament, state and people? When?- I'm sorry. We've always talked and we've been ready for this. You closed the door, worked behind closed doors. You wanted a law like this, not us. Well, because we gave you something the opposite of a suggestion, what did you think?- I'm sorry. We're trying to find space to say something, because you've tightened the kit and you won't give it. Yesterday, it was proven by a report from the session, when questions are raised to the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister is asking questions to MPs, he doesn't know, man, what to say, because he's, like, accidentally where he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35547	Two minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP, Nada Kolundži, authorised representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35548	If we have acquired the authority of the National Assembly to make a decision on this matter, and you have given it to the committee responsible, then let it be that it is a greater tightening than on the proposal that you have, signed by the 21st National MP of the DSS. And that, who's nervous, sometimes the people have great proverbs when they say that those who yell "hold the thief, hold the thief", maybe for some reason they need to distract themselves. So we believe in institutions that are responsible for doing their job, in accordance with the law, and we deeply believe that all those responsible for any violation of the law and crime will be held accountable. Is it a sign that someone wants to go to the polls because they want to prevent competent institutions who are determined to do so, so they count on some change of government to stop the process, that might be the real question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35549	The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, so Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35550	My dear Mrs. Kolundžija, I must correct you once again, because it is obvious that you either do not know enough the Rules of Procedure, or you will not accept that this Rules of Procedure allows for extremely arbitrary, malicious and anti-democratic interpretations, such as those that Mr. Micunović has on a regular basis. When it comes to a permanent delegation at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly - a few days ago in Vienna, the winter session was held on February 18th and 19th and a delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs took place. It is now not even an ad hoc delegation, but a permanent delegation, whose composition, five members, has been elected by the National Assembly. One of those members is Gordana Pop-Lazic from the SRS. Despite being elected by the National Assembly to a permanent delegation, Mr Micunovic has given himself the right to determine that only four members will travel to Vienna on February 18th and 19th, leaving out this way, without any valid reason, Mrs Pop-Lazic. To convince you that it really is, we wrote a protest letter to the president of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly asked Mr. Micunovic to plead on this issue, and Mr. Micunovic pleaded and nakeded to the end of his anti-democracy nature. Be careful what he says: "According to the Rules of Procedure of the NS RS there is no obligation to consult parliamentary groups or their presidents regarding the establishment of a delegation for visits, it is within the competence of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to make decisions autonomously on the composition of delegations. The Committee cannot therefore violate the Rules of Procedure and delegate its competence to parliamentary groups. ''Therefore, what you say ''that implies''' in Mr. Micunovic not only does not mean, but it means something quite the opposite. But he goes on to say, "When it comes to making a decision on participation and determining the composition of a permanent delegation at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna, the Committee on Foreign Affairs held a session on February 11th, for the sake of timely application and participation and preparation of travel. The decision, following the above provisions of the Rules of Procedure, was made by the President of the NS RS and, on a proposal from the head of the Permanent Delegation at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. With regard to these foreign delegations and the Committee on Foreign Affairs itself, decisions on their travels and compositions of delegations shall be made on the basis of their proposals, but, in view of the frequent prevention of Members from participating in certain activities, shall be authorised by the Head of Delegation to determine from the order of members of the Permanent Delegation the composition of delegations at individual meetings of these international institutions. ''How can a delegation be determined from the order of a permanent delegation?- I'm sorry. Let's see where it says it in the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't say absolutely anywhere. Imagine what Mr Micunovic also says – ''It should also be noted that the claims made by the SRS Parliamentary Group and its president to assume the responsibilities belonging to the Committee on Foreign Affairs lead to a delay in saying to the MPs designated by the Committee on their participation in the composition of foreign delegations and planned visits, making it difficult to work on a professional service that prepares visits and slows down the work itself. ''So Mr. Micunovic found a solution and defiled a permanent delegation chosen by the National Assembly, thinks he has a higher authority and that he can derivate the National Assembly's decision with his own will, and then says he will travel instead of five members of the four members, and the representative of the SRS will not travel. It is your obligation to give us the right to determine our members on our own. You can set a deadline that you consider similar, so say - here, you have a 24-hour deadline or you have a 72-hour deadline to determine your member, if you do not set it - will be determined independently by the National Assembly or will be appointed by the Committee for Foreign Affairs. But no other principle, Mrs. Kolundjia, can be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35551	Four minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35552	Mr. Sarovic, it is probably difficult for you to understand that the Assembly has a responsible attitude towards spending, because you are a man who has shown that it is capable of spending 2.5 million dinars on fraud, and so when there is a permanent delegation, it does not mean that all members of the delegation are going, but the Assembly is making a rational decision which is the composition of a delegation that can best represent the Assembly... (President: Excuse me, People's MPs, I ask the People's MP of the Duvnjak not to violate the Rules of Procedure and not to throw rude words out of the messenger's bench. )......................................................................................................... and, in doing so, take care of the spending of the funds of Serbian citizens, which you really have no sense of, and especially do not need to think about, because you have proved that the funds of Serbian citizens are something you consider your private property. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35553	The word has a folk MP Dragan Šormaz, so Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35554	Mrs. Kolundjia, I didn't say "hold the thief," we caught the thieves! In 2007, the U.S. Arsu Saric, in the middle of Belgrade, with 20kg of heroin, arrested and sentenced, brother of Uncle Dark Saric. We caught the thieves, and arrested Anton Stano, personal friend of Milo Djukanovic, who bought over 50 companies with fake "Metals Bank" guarantees! Arrested him in 2007...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35555	National MP, please bring your presentations in connection with the selection of permanent delegations and parliamentary delegations of the National Assembly and to stick to the obligation to speak about what is on the agenda, so that we do not have to apply others...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35556	I'm talking about what Mrs. Kolundji said to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35557	I'm warning you on the obligation to talk about the agenda. We are currently discussing an amendment that regulates how permanent and occasional delegations of the National Assembly are elected. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35558	So, Anton Stanoy, whose property Darko Saric buys, and how will the delegation go...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35559	People's MP, I warn you, you're talking about delegations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35560	I'm on my way to the delegation now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35561	If you intend to demean the National Assembly by saying that it is your will that criminals make permanent delegations, I warn you twice that this is the reason for giving the warning measure. Please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35562	What are you talking about? When did I say that? And, imagine, Parliament's delegation should go to Montenegro to visit Milo Djukanovic, whose friends are such people? What's that gonna look like? I didn't say hold on to the thieves, but hold on to the boy who works with them!
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35563	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35564	My dear Mrs. Kolundjia, you obviously ran out of arguments and then you're expanding the debate. I would rather expect that Mrs. Comic warned you to stick to the subject than to warn Mr. Shormaz, but it is obvious that you cannot fight alone, so she feels the need to help you a little. Maybe that's why...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35565	People's Messenger, I ask you to take care of the contents of what you say. The People's Messenger Dragan Shormaz is not warned, and you cannot know what my intentions are, nor do you have the rights, according to the Rules of Procedure, to speak of it. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35566	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, for asking. I appreciate the request, and I'll try to concentrate a little bit better in the future, so... (nerves off the microphone)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35567	I mean... Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35568	Thank you, Mrs. Comić, I know that it was a fruit of chance and that you have no evil intentions, as you never have, therefore, Mrs. Kolundzija, you cannot defend anything with such superficial quasiarguments. It's about the essence, it's about parliamentaryism, it's about democracy, and who knows which way, Mrs. Kolundjia, you're proving that you know absolutely nothing about it. Mrs. Kolundjia, I've always worked in accordance with the law, according to the Rules of Procedure, unlike you. Here's the problem of political nature, here's the problem with your will, here's the problem with you saying that democratic rules apply to the Democratic Party, and they don't apply to everyone else. So you can't say that the trip to Gordana Pop-Lazic cost more than it cost Gordana Komic's trip, that it cost more than Mrs Grubjesic's trip, or someone else from the ruling coalition. This is just about breaking all the democratic rules and having you set up, by some nonexistent criteria, who will go and who won't go. Even Mr. Micunovic's arguments do not stand, because he had to at least offer Mrs. Pop-Lazic to go. This is not about temporary delegations, ad hoc delegations, a permanent delegation chosen by the National Assembly. I would ask you, my dear Mrs Kolundzija, if you have some legal argument to make, to say on the basis of democratic rules how you can justify what I call an obvious abuse and the will of Mr Micunović, which you support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35569	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35570	There's only one sentence I want to say. When the board makes a decision, it's a legitimate decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35571	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35572	Mrs. Kolundjia, you can't say "when the Committee makes a decision" that it's a legitimate decision. It is a legitimate decision when it is made in accordance with certain legal principles, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the ideals of democracy and European tradition, which you are very often referring to. This decision has not been made, Mrs. Kolundjia, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has not. Here is the original document signed by Mr. Micunovic that is not true. I can read: 'Officially, 08 February, 19 February 2010'. This is addressed to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Committee, Professor Dragoljub Micunovic, signed here. So, I'm reading the document we got from the National Assembly's professional service. If this is not true, then, Mrs Kolundzija, I do not deceive the public, but Dragoljub Micunovic does. This is about the opposite of the decision of the National Assembly, and the National Assembly has chosen a permanent delegation, on the proposal of Mr Micunovic, from the permanent delegation, which has already been designated by the Assembly's decision, to exclude the SRS representative. For that, Mrs. Kolundjia, there is no excuse. Why are you going into a debate that you know in advance is lost? Admit it well – we have made a mistake, promise, we will not do it in the future, so we will be able to move on. This is a document signed by Dragoljub Micunovic, which was delivered to our parliamentary group by the National Assembly president. What are we talking about next? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35573	One minute and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundjia, I look forward to an explanation and what reason you will give for not accepting this amendment of mine. Article 19, paragraph 4, and the powers of the president of the National Assembly, it is said that ''The National Assembly president shall convene meetings of the National Assembly Presidency and shall chair meetings. ''The Law on the National Assembly does not provide for the existence of the Presidency of the National Assembly, no composition is prescribed, no way of electing the National Assembly presidency and, apparently, it is a completely wild provision. Yesterday I heard your interpretation that maybe when someone wrote it by mistake instead of "the National Assembly" he wrote "the Presidency". I'm sorry, the presidency and the college are not the same. And if this provision were ever interpreted, any lawyer would think that the presidency was some other body. When the presidency is said, it is primarily thought of by the president and vice presidents. That would be the Presidency of the National Assembly. On no basis can the College, in which the presidents of the parliamentary groups also hold membership, be called the presidency. That's impossible. It is not in accordance with the law and this provision is completely irrelevant. This is a wild provision that has no place, because you, neither before nor after, have the presidency of the National Assembly. Please show some goodwill, some political wisdom, and delete this provision. It is quite the opposite of some democratic spirit, it is completely contrary to the tradition so far and has no foothold in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There's no reason to form another organ. You have a National Assembly of 250 MPs, you have heads of MPs who can represent each parliamentary group, you have as vice presidents of the National Assembly party representatives. You can form 10 more bodies, but if you form those 10 bodies, you do not move, as far as the quality of the work of the Assembly is concerned, you will not do. So far, you know very well that this has often been a way to cloud the situation, so that you talk about consulting, as you have said, that there are a lot of consultations about the adoption of the Srebrenica Declaration. As far as I know, no one from the SRS Group has participated in this, no one from the DSS Group has participated, I don't know if the LDP, but the consultation of the parliamentary groups implies everything. You, then, when it is politically appropriate for you, have made these consultations so that this coat of democracy can be overruled by the decision you want to make, and when you do not want to, you act as Mr Micunovic, who independently determines which member of the permanent delegation will not travel when necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35575	A minute and 40 seconds have been used by the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35576	Dear fellow Members, I have never missed the conclusion that I accepted the amendments of the LDP parliamentary groups, MPs Milisav Petronijevic and the Justice Committee, which are in the same text, which point to this very mistake that you are pointing to. And every sign of your wisdom, not so often, but anyway, I accept, and so I have accepted your amendments, but I could not accept this amendment because you did not ask your amendment to replace the word "collegium", because, of course, it is that instead of the word "collegium", the "presidency" here, the amendments of those Members of Parliament have therefore been accepted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35577	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic, MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic and the Committee for Justice and Administration. Proposer representative, National MP Nada Kolundzija, and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment of MP Milisav Petronijevic and joint MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judite Popovic, Natasa Micicic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. A representative of the Proposer, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, also accepted the amendment of the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Krstin submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 19a be added after article 19a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35578	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on the National Assembly to insert Article 19a after article 19a. To make it clearer to most people, I would read what article 19 contains. The responsibilities of the President of the National Assembly: ''1) represent the National Assembly; 2) convenes meetings of the National Assembly, and sets out the draft agenda; 3) holds the chair meetings of the National Assembly; 4) convenes meetings of the National Assembly Presidency and the meeting chairmanships; 5) takes care of the work of the National Assembly sessions and the application of the Rules of Procedure; 6) takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly’s working bodies, 7) performs other tasks established by law and the Rules of Procedure. ''The proposal of Article 19a, which I have submitted, reads as follows: 'The President of the National Assembly shall, no later than one year from the date of submission of the proposal from the authorising officer, put the proposed law or other act on the agenda.' I think the ruling majority, by accepting the amendments, would show willingness to co-operate with both opposition parties and individuals. This will prevent malpractice from delaying these proposals, which means that the opposition's proposals do not stand four or five years in drawers or, in particular, one term of four years, and that the government's proposals are made needlessly by emergency procedure. So, if it is a proposal from an authorised opposition promoter, and it concerns a bill or other act that is on the agenda, it would be the order to put the same thing on the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure and their proposal on an urgent basis, you would suggest some points of the agenda and, normally, vote on it. It happens that you do it, but then the ruling majority, when you put it on the agenda, make a decision, revote, and then the proposal comes off the agenda. There should be this voice of reason with you, so that you can do something not to be against the law, which is, that there are no proposals of an authorised promoter, when it comes to a bill or any other act, four years in a drawer or in the table of the President of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35579	Forty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. A representative of the promoter, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radic Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20. Proposal for a Law on the National Assembly with a proposal to delete Article 4 of this Act. Article 20, paragraph 4, reads: "The election process of the National Assembly president is being governed by the Rules of Procedure". Article 104. The constitution applies to both the president of the National Assembly and the vice-presidents of the Assembly, where the National Assembly is said to elect the president by a majority of the votes of all MPs, as well as vice-presidents, and besides that, it no longer writes anything. Given that the role of National Assembly President is mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I would say, indeed, it is unserious that the election process of the president is not regulated by this law on the National Assembly, but rather governed by the Rules of Procedure. If this law was actually prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, which only some cosmetic provisions sought to personalise the Law on the National Assembly, it could also have been the decision-making process for the president to be regulated legally. This is how we have the situation where the function of the President of the National Assembly, which in some circumstances can also serve as acting president of the Republic, is regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and these cosmetic changes that I was talking about, are these honorary units of the Army of Serbia, taking an oath, an anthem, and yet all of this looks exactly like the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35581	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35582	The problem with this amendment is not what you wanted to achieve with it. So we understand that perhaps this law could also have provided a provision for the president of the National Assembly to be elected by the votes of the majority in relation to the total number of MPs, and that would be the matter of the law. But since your amendment only proposes to delete the procedure and procedure itself from being governed by the Rules of Procedure, then it was simply not possible to accept this amendment, because the election procedure itself is something that is governed by the Rules of Procedure and it has to stand. What you have now presented here as an argument would be acceptable, and that is primarily how many votes are elected by the President of the Assembly, it could have been included in this law, but unfortunately that is not the content of your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35583	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the title above Articles 26 and 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe that, first of all, our representative will never participate in the work of that college again, because you've come up with a member you'd like to brag about, and I think it's humiliating for the opposition MPs' groups. The president of the National Assembly now has one body of equals that he calls upon as necessary, since he has no obligation, and that body will help him to perform his duties. Excuse me, please, why is there a technical service? Are we, the heads of the parliamentary groups, the vice president of the National Assembly, going to help the president of the National Assembly coordinate the work of the working bodies and address other issues from the authority of the National Assembly president? What are we here, assistants? Do we have any rights in this college? We don't have any rights. Is there anything we can vote on? We can't. What's that gonna do? That the Public Service announced that the consultations had been carried out, so we made a deal? These consultations, because you get them so badly, are long gone. That's why you have to make it up to me, to tell the truth that there are consultations. There is no real consultation of the equal MPs, the representative of the MPs, in this assembly. You do everything yourself, you prepare everything yourself. You're trying to get opposition MPs into it. The LDP doesn't even have to try, they're with you and they're not the opposition, and they're left as far as anyone can think. It's really humiliating for the opposition to come up with a body from an opposition representative to help the president of the National Assembly do his job. What do you mean we help him represent the National Assembly? I'm really interested. Should we tell him whether to wear socks, those zigzags, or "myo-moo" shoes or, how do we represent the National Assembly president of the National Assembly, with the help of the opposition representatives? This is one humiliating member. When are the sessions called? It doesn't say. You even said - a body called by the president of the National Assembly. The president can't summon the body, he can convene the sessions of a body. So, we don't exist, but when we are called by the President of the National Assembly, that's when the National Assembly College is established. A college of the National Assembly, it means that some colleagues have moved to talk. What kind of colleagues are we with the president, when he determines the agenda, when he represents the National Assembly, when he does everything that is some kind of power in this National Assembly, and we come to help him? Just work, if we from the opposition start helping him work well, and it turns out he's a good president of the National Assembly, and the only good president of the National Assembly is Gordana Comic. She's the only one who knows how to brutally eliminate the opposition and how to take away her word, how she's not allowed to talk about the topics she'd like to talk about, but what she's going to talk about is the topics she imposes on power. We don't want any part of this. We ask you to remember that soon you will have the opportunity to go to the elections, that soon you will have the opportunity to act as an opposition. Well, now, think about it, Mrs. Kolundjia, would you like to be a member of the National Assembly College, who will help the National Assembly, the head of the National Assembly, to help represent the National Assembly? Well, I'd like to see how you're going to "yellow" to comply, to come and help the president of the National Assembly who's from the ranks of the progressors. If you want to respect us, not as equals yourself, you have, I guess, more votes in the elections, but at least in this room as people who represent just as many citizens as you represent, then let's ensure some equality. If you don't, you're still working alone. You have your own college, you from the ruling majority are gathering and it's a true college of the National Assembly. You're consulting. That's where the president of Serbia comes in, who gives you instructions, and that's your college, that's your instructions. Think carefully, in the voting day we will try to convince you that this amendment should be accepted. I think some authorities will think this isn't a good provision, and it's not a legal provision. A provision this undefined cannot enter into one law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35585	It was used two minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35586	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, in talks with parliamentary groups and heads of parliament groups, at various times, the idea of the need to define in this law a collegiate collective body of the National Assembly, which would aim at coordinating the work and co-operation of all parliamentary groups within parliament, related to the work of parliament, for the representation of parliament, etc. What is the content of your amendment is not acceptable because we think it's the matter of the Rules of Procedure. We have no objection to the Rules of Procedure being defined in how often, how often, etc. The College also meets to define the Rules of Procedure in which the work of the collective body is achieved. In that part, I can say that your exposure is correct. What I don't think is correct is that you are now ironically transferring to us who really wanted to create a collegiate body and to create an institution of parliament in which the government and the opposition will not be enemies, but, as far as possible, as far as they differed from each other at the same job, I think that when you say so, the only way I can read it is for you to be second. You do not tolerate that there is someone who is first to you, so it offends you so much that there is a president and that the President can do something that you cannot, and unfortunately, is because the President of the Assembly has powers that other MPs do not have. In that sense, it shows only your relationship to the position in relation to the fact that there are laws of defined authority, which are authority because the Constitution and the law gave them jurisdiction that they did not give to others. Some of us have no problem accepting this and are doing the best possible job according to their role, but there are obviously those who cannot bear that others or cannot survive what they were presidents of Parliament for just two days. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35587	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35588	I survived being president of the National Assembly for only two days, and some others didn't survive and today it costs them. Really, I can't believe you transferred me so I couldn't stand being second. I was another 18 years old and you could never feel a wish with me, nor is anyone and anyone who now claims anything about me could ever find in everything I've done for 18 years one sentence that would suggest that I didn't like being the other. When the people choose you not for the first, but for the second, you respect it. Your party president beat me by 60-70,000 votes to 4.5 million voters, so I accepted it, confessed, and said I was second. I don't keep vanity in my room or in my pocket, I leave it at the door. I'm just saying that it's inappropriate for an opposition representative to prescribe a provision for him to help the president of the National Assembly when he wants it, because it's not a provision that needs to go into the law, because you might be able to call me to account for that former member of the law - why I don't participate in college meetings, and I don't respect the law, and by doing so I don't respect the provisions governing my work as a MP. So, what happens if one of the presidents of the parliamentary groups doesn't respond to college sessions? What did the law predict in that case? He doesn't matter, at all, at those college sessions. He doesn't decide anything there, he doesn't vote on anything. He can't determine the agenda. By law, the National Assembly's agenda is determined by the National Assembly, and proposed exclusively by the President, not by the College. If you had introduced the law to propose a college agenda, then it would have meant that at the meetings of the colleges, then I would have wanted to participate, but then you would have invented that according to the power of the MPs we would vote on. Otherwise, if five opposition parliamentary groups are formed, we will outvote you from the ruling majority and you will run from it. Please, Mrs. Kolundjia, don't throw any more personal notes into our debates in the National Assembly. I've never spoken to you personally, nor do I want to. I've never analyzed your behavior, your appearance, your political biography. Please stay away from that. I have these that analyze it from a negative point of view, so you see how they fail. Don't put your party in a position to fail just because you've dealt with me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35589	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go. The time available for the MP's group is 12 minutes You have no right to a replica. [[Milos Aligrudić, from the place: This is the replica of Nadi Kolundjiji.]] You have the time of the president of the parliamentary group and the time of the group. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Head of Parliament. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35590	Okay. Mrs. Kolundjia, this is the time of the head of the parliamentary group, which I use for my will as chairman, but it's essentially a replica of what you said, so I'm going to at the same time explain why it is a replica. You mentioned, in a recent statement, that the solution contained in the text of the bill was related to the collegiate fruit of the talks and arrangements with the heads of the parliamentary groups. You shouldn't have said something like that unless you've limited it and listed with which members of the parliamentary groups. With me, about that solution, and even about any other solution to this bill, you didn't discuss it. Neither did anyone else talk to me about it. If I am to mention this fact, as head of Parliament's group, which is called, I do not have the right to reply to the position of the chairman, then I do not know when and in what circumstances and on what basis I have the right to reply. That's one thing. The second thing, when it comes to solutions and the way you write those solutions, this is already coming out of the replica, but since I'm not using the formal replica, let me tell you that. So, the way that you have written certain provisions of this bill exactly suggests that you want the formal majority in Parliament, as it is educated, dictates all the conditions of work and decision-making in Parliament, including those for which, by the nature of parliamentary life, it should not be the ruling majority because it can vote on proposals of laws, decisions and other acts that are in the power of the National Assembly and that is the only function of the ruling majority. And no function of the ruling majority can be of any majorization on the other basis in the work of the National Assembly. Then let it be clearly written that you have not written the demarcated powers and the kind of decisions made by that college, if at all, since it is not seen in the right way, so that it is known that it is not the work of the government, or the ruling majority, one natural majorisation that must exist, what it is that comes out of that sector, what it is really is our joint business. We haven't talked about it for a single moment, and that's the point, and those who follow this transmission need to know. I know you could say, "Well, what, you didn't want to talk." It is true that we did not, because we saw it on the basis of the way the President of Parliament tried to convene consultations, how she called them and the way it was done and what was taken as a basis for working for this bill, that everything we would point out, that everything we would say, in order to be condemned in advance. Participation in such work and such dialogue is pointless. It's not like you're consulting on any other law. The Law on the National Assembly must be passed in a way that provides consensus, at least the broadest consensus in Parliament, where the most important opposition groups will agree with this text of the law in general, because in a democratic society the question of who is in opposition and who is in power is extremely relative. It is changed from calling to the National Assembly’s convocation, and it is really pointless for someone to write bill proposals so that they fear that the opposition parties, by making some suggestions, will spoil some business in that context. That's absolutely bad. That's not supposed to be done. We didn't have an atmosphere here where we could really sit down with you and discuss it, because the rest of the atmosphere, if I may say so, didn't refer to it. From the way in which the National Assembly sits, when we are talking about that body and the function of those who run the National Assembly, those who are first among the equals. They do it on their own. By arbitrary interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, often legally wrong. Arbitration in the way of holding sessions, Mrs. Kolundjia, is a standard, but arbitration in a legal sense does not mean self-will. And the current example, I'm not speaking to the chairman at all, but to you as a fellow MP, is the best thing he's saying. Someone who is able to enter the controversy with the MPs about the matter being discussed, from the post of chairman, does not do his job well, like, let's say, the linguistic rules, etc. The job of the chairman is to say - you have the right to do this, you have no right to do this, you have left the topic, you have not left the topic. Perhaps it is with the right of the chairman, in the previous, earlier part of the session, that you have warned one DSS MP today that he may have come out of the topic a little bit in his speech, so he tried to come back, etc., it's all politics. But to enter the controversy of matter, to explain when a dictionary was brought, from there, into the two MPs' radius, no matter what the question of the dictionary was then, it was an absolute exit from the topic, and not only did the MPs not mention that they should not discuss it, but, then, someone else sitting in the chair explains when the dictionary was brought in. It's just amazing. Then, when I report to the replica today, which is pure as a tear, because the president of the parliamentary group is mentioned, without a reference, and that means everyone, including me, to say that I wasn't involved in something, which you said I was involved in, then here, like, no replicas. It's not about one man, it's not about accusing someone of their name, it's about the system. It means that we are systematically, as we do here, not doing well. So, on these matters to take more account, to take care of one democratic right to debate in this House, because we are not a parliamentary assembly of some international organisation that has a parliamentary assembly, where it is held four times a year for five days, so you have resolutions, declarations, it all needs to be brought quickly, it needs to be effective, etc., and then there are these cruel 30-second rules for the amendment, etc. We are a national parliament and you are very well aware of how most national parliaments in Europe work. Discussing the principle is the most important principle. It can't be because someone estimates that individual groups may have some sort of speech style that can act obstructively, it can't be solved by hitting all those who don't have that kind of style. And that style is legitimate and against that style can be conducted by dialogue. Since the dialogue here is lagging behind as a modus, then we absolutely have no room to lay down good rules, nor to behave in accordance with some good rules and customs. That's the essence of the story here in this House. If we can change that, it's good, no matter who's in power or who's in opposition. If we're not able to rise at least a little above this, this will stay the way it is. You can bring a new Rules of Procedure. What does it mean to follow the rules? It doesn't mean anything. There are no strict rules. There are only good rules, which defends parliamentaryism, parliamentary life and a dissuasive principle and those that suppress it, so define what you want. This thing can't go like this. That's the point, so now, you do whatever you want. I don't think the way this is done is good, I'm deeply convinced. A leg of pompous norms, many empty, superficial, unnecessary. It doesn't change anything at all. You have an earlier bill that simply, as one skeleton, which was even given in the procedure by our parliamentary group, but did not come here for debate, by the ruling majority's will. It is not enough, of course, that proposal that we have made, in this form and as such, to bring it in, but it did not go out of it, although it was done really multi-partyly, but it was made a political, psychological cut, as if nothing had been done before, so, like, kobajagi, everything is done from the beginning. It's just not good, and in the end, as a result, which is here in front of us, it's not good quality. There, that's the point. Whatever you want, how you like it, but I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35591	Time was used at the disposal of the parliamentary group president, and a minute and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35592	I just want to remove one of the suspicions that came out here. I didn't say one word here that this institute was introduced on the basis of an agreement. I just mentioned that there were initiatives, that there were ideas about it and I didn't say that, as far as the opposition is concerned, an agreement was reached on this institute. I simply did not say that an agreement was reached with the opposition, I always said, unfortunately, it was not. It was our wish, but no deal was reached. What I'd like to point out, too, is that we have come from the text of the law you're talking about. So that's not true, and if you carefully compare those two texts, you'll see that some parts of that text have been consistently applied. What are innovations relative to this text, that may be what can be slow about, but if we have the contents that have been transmitted from this text, then there is not at least one single finding that the whole text is absolutely nothing good, because if you claim that this text was better, then at least something in this text is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35593	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35594	Just this, so there's no confusion. I'm not saying that this text was better, but I'm saying it was the basis. And I'm not even saying that it's not prescribed, obviously it is, but that's exactly the reason against you, not in your favor, because by cheating something that could have been just the basis for discussion and conversation, and by adding something that was never the subject of conversation, which was innovation, there you set fire to the deadlock and that's all. So I'm not slow about what you said, I'm simply interpreting it my way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35595	The word has the National Parliament of Hope Kolundji, representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35596	I would never say that if he signed a 21-nation MP and sent him as a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35597	So, yes, it is formally the 21st People's Parliament that you're talking about and that's not on the agenda today, it is, it's yours. That's a fact and we made it public. However, the text we have submitted, signed by the 21st MP, is almost the same maltene as the text that the really common working group in the previous assembly made. That's the point. That's what I'm trying to say. There are no important changes. We do not boast that we have done something ourselves, no, we have not said it at any time – the DSS has invented some text now and submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a proposal from the DSS. He formally is our proposal because we signed it, but we took that text that was a joint task force, so, really multi-party, in the previous session he did, which was cleared from all the controversial moments and could serve as a basis. I've confirmed to you that you've taken parts of that text. The only thing that was controversial, I repeat again, is that any upgrade over that text cannot be the fruit of any consensus and the conditions have not been created. That was my interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35598	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35599	Take advantage of the parliamentary group's time. To remove all misunderstandings, since the text of the law that was in the procedure has been repeatedly spoken of. The assembly assembly and the congregation majority that existed at the time had a strong desire to make a law on the National Assembly, I am talking about the year 2007. A task force was created that had representatives from all parties. We were told, for formal reasons, only one parliamentary group then left the work very quickly and I had the opportunity to chair the task force. She had regular meetings, about, in a month, a month and a half, she finished her job. The text of the law was found in the procedure, it was also agreed, and this text was submitted in the procedure by the following MPs: Radojko Obradović, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Petar Cvetkovic, Nikola Novakovic, Rajko Baralić, Radovan Radovanovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Bajram Omeragic. The text was found in the procedure of 5.11.2007, fora number 0102-3623/07. So, then we agreed on all these things, as Mrs. Kolundjia misquoted during the debate. You quoted a member as talking about the compositions of the delegation. He referred to delegation compositions in co-operation with other parliaments, not international parliaments, international working bodies. This law is defined by some other member. Therefore, we had a consensus at the time, since there was no political will to stand behind this law, the DSS has only repeated the proposal, and this text that is now in the procedure and from March 2009 differs only in one single thing. It only differs on the date on which the law enters into force. It's the exact same text that all these people stood behind three years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35600	A minute and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35601	I have not disputed the value of this text with a single sentence of my own. Some others did it, and just the ones who kind of put up with it, claiming it was the basis. I think this is a proposal. It contains provisions that, as far as we are concerned, are not controversial and are contained in this law. We essentially changed some things because we left some of the things that existed in this law as the matter of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, we have introduced some new institutes, believing that they are important when it comes to the congregation. We did not deny the value of this text. I just want to say that this text and our text in basics are not in the opposite. So the solutions from one text and another are not in contrast. There are only new institutes that we have introduced into this law and perhaps from the point of view of the applicants of this text it can be the subject of dispute and debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35602	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35603	Thank you. In addition to not sharing these same values, which is that if we are an opposition, we have to destroy everything to come to power, I can essentially agree with both of my representatives. That body that's now formed, the college, and in Article 26, but also later, where it's mentioned, it's not given any content, as if it's some kind of skeleton that doesn't have any meat. We disagree that it is necessary for such things to be defined by the Rules of Procedure. If we could legally define when two young soldiers will stand outside, from what to what time, which day, at the door of the National Assembly, we think this is a far more important topic. With this amendment, we propose that the "orders" to hold college meetings, which, in a certain way, would, of course, not expect right away, create one rule, which everyone would then respect, and when the authorities change and those who lead the Parliament as people change. So our idea goes far beyond this. The amendment specifically proposes to meet the college as necessary, but also at least ten days before the start of the regular session, five days before the start of each session in a regular session, as well as before the appointment of each session in an emergency session. Our opinion is that the work of the Assembly would be greatly improved if this group of people, therefore, all the heads of parliament and vice presidents, had a plan in front of them for several months. At that time, each parliamentary group would have enough time to prepare in every possible way for the debate on the law, so I am sure that the debate would become more quality and faster, because it would eventually define essential things in every law. Also, I think this body could set a schedule for the board meeting this way, a schedule for voting days, as it exists in other countries. We didn't deliberately put such a provision in the amendment so that it wouldn't be used for obstruction, and that the inability to bring that body a schedule wouldn't mean that the session wasn't there. But I think this would be a good start and it would be the right place to do what's supposed to be content and such a body exists in other parliaments. It is formally up to the president of the Assembly to decide on the agenda for the session, but the goodwill and democratic potential of the president of the Assembly gives it the right through one debate and in the conversation. We certainly think that this is one of the essential amendments to this law that we have passed and we think that it would greatly improve the work of the Assembly itself. So these informal meetings, as they are now called, consultations, if I'm not mistaken, the heads of parliament would get one institutional character in the right way and no one could avoid that right. I want to believe that those people who run the congregation today have a desire to actually improve the work of this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35604	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have foreseen that the 27th session of the Committee should be attended by members of the Government, or by authorised representatives. We believe that this proposal is essentially something that would give meaning to committees, on the one hand, directly, unlike you who consider it to be the introduction of a deputy board member, and indirectly, it seems to me that, by accepting this amendment, it would strengthen or improve Parliament's control function. This is primarily based on the fact, i.e. on the experience this Parliament and this meeting has had with the representatives of the executive authority since its constitution. We are all as MPs, regardless of which group we belong, witnessing an irresponsible and mostly indemnity relationship of the executive authority to this home. You can't challenge that either, Mrs. Kolundjia, or any other MP. I will now give an example that will prove that, if you even put this provision into the law, if there is no political will, you will not achieve a control function within that scope and that intensity that this parliament should have. This is where we've been having discussions without a government representative, it's happened for the same example that the House is interrupting the session, and that's proof that no document adopted seems to be binding on us, most of it. We have come to the debate of 15 points that have almost nothing to do with each other or are related to the laws of economics and finance law, and then the Minister of Sports and Youth comes here and represents those laws. It happened to us, you and we, that 20 meters from here, you sit ministers and drink coffee, don't want to participate in a debate with MPs, defend the law, or challenge our amendments. Now, that essentially demoted and derogated the control function of this home. With this amendment, it was our intention and desire to create conditions not only through the law, but also to create conditions for you to include in the Rules of Procedure an obligation for those who represent the executive authority to sort of account for us Members of this House. Everything else, everything else, will not essentially improve, will not affirm and raise the reputation and dignity of this house. This is what I'm gonna end up with. You know, if the only reason you bring this law is because the Constitution obliges you to do so, then you better not have brought it before the People's Messengers. You could have solved this as well as some other modern states in Europe, which solve this problem or this issue exclusively with the Rules of Procedure, but are serious countries, advanced states, democratic states. So if that was the only reason, you really didn't have to. We believe that you can accept this to force the representatives of the executive authority to respect this home and thus improve what you are at least declaring – that you want to raise the control function of this body. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35606	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35607	Article 27 of Article 14 provides that the work of working bodies may, by invitation, participate, as you state in the proposal of this member, professional and scientific workers. You know, we used to listen to some coins that came from a small town in Croatia, in Zagorje, from a very strong political school at the time, so we all remember, for example, self-government agreements and social agreements. We remember how our country at that time ran an active peaceful co-existence policy, etc. I have the impression that this syntagma – professional and scientific workers are incentivizing and are now dating back to that time, perhaps even from that kumrovic pot. But it's absolutely inappropriate today's time. We believe it is bureaucratic and that, in fact, more adequate terms, such as experts and scientists, should be used in the modern display of legal norms. That's exactly what we've been looking for with our amendment. More is the ideological way of showing something that can be said more correctly in words – experts and scientists. Have you ever heard that, for example, he says at a scientific meeting – a professional and scientific worker will address you, whether he or she says: an expert from both the area will contact you, or – a prominent scientific worker will address you. It's more appropriate what's required by the amendment. However, I must say that you have accepted the amendment of my colleague, Sreta Periæ, to position 15. I find it illogical that you have accepted an amendment to attitude 15, which also mentions these words, and you have not accepted the amendment to its previous position 14, but you have only compared it to this later position 15. If you have any logical explanation about it, I'd like to hear it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35608	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35609	Why is your amendment not accepted specifically? Because of the continuation of the sentence, therefore, what are 'experts and scientists from their fields of relevance', as your amendment already states. That is why your colleague Sreta Perić's amendment was accepted to replace the words "scientist and professional workers" with the words "scientists and experts". We have accepted this amendment, as well as the amendment of the Committee, which has consistently applied the entire text. So he applied those terms to the entire text of that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35610	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 27. This amendment was adopted by the proposing representative, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. A representative of the motion, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, as well as the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35611	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Dear fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 28, where I propose that words be deleted – and deputy members of the committee, so that Article 28 reads: 'The National Assembly shall elect board members on a proposal from parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs to the total number of MPs in the National Assembly. ''So, that solution that currently exists in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Why did I submit this amendment? Because I believe that the introduction of an institution or a system – the deputy board members will not contribute at all to the intention of transferring the debate with the plenary to the assembly committees, thus increasing the capacity of the Assembly committees. I think that as long as a solution is accepted that the bill's proposals can be considered in plenary, without the opinion or the position of the board, this institute introduces the vice president of the board doesn't really mean anything. The powers of parliamentary committees differ from country to country. In our country, this assembly is dominated by political parties, not individuals, and countries in which the government has a majority of parliament, as this government has, the government's legislative proposals are easily passed through both plenary and assembly committees, so Parliament's legislative activity in both the plenary and the assembly committees is reduced to a mere formality. On the other hand, there are countries where congregation committees discuss not only laws but also laws or even laws. These are, for example, Scandinavian countries, we look at a lot of countries where there are deputy committees such as Austria, Germany and Sweden, but we do not look up to them when it comes to the importance and essence of parliamentary committees. Of course, as at plenary sessions, abstinence board meetings are possible, but the abstinence of board members from the ruling coalition should be an exception, not a rule. All reports indicate exactly who is coming and who is not coming to the meetings of the congregation committees. On this occasion, I would like to say that I will not appoint deputy board members at the G17 Plus Parliament Club, because I believe that this is a minimum obligation for which MPs have, which is to attend, participate in the work of the Assembly committees for which they themselves have been defined according to the standards, according to the profession, according to specialization. So, I just don't think it's a good idea to introduce deputy board members, because this "debate" parliament is in no way going to turn into a working parliament, and I see that it is the desire of the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35612	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35613	In the voting day, we will support this amendment proposed by Mrs Grubjesic, for the simple reason that we had the opportunity to learn about the positive practice of many parliaments in the world. Exactly, this, Sweden has excellent experience with the deputy board member, however, it is a completely tied condition, because there are still several very important conditions that, for example, nothing can be discussed without the board's opinion at the assembly meeting. As long as it can be with us, this absolutely means nothing, as well as a number of provisions in this law that only declare and strengthen Parliament's work, will essentially not fix anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35614	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35615	I think it is important that, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, I express my position to Serbia, therefore, the amendment is exactly the same as the amendment of our colleagues from G17, and I am pleased that the government has noticed that this institute is not at all in the interest of parliament, that it is in some way disdaining the MPs themselves, because it points out that we are irresponsible in doing our duties. We fully agree with other parties, I would say that all parties in the opposition have this position, that it is unacceptable for an institute of deputy board members to have a general impact on the quality of work, and thus we certainly would not get anything, even when it comes to the authority of the MP, or the National Assembly. On the contrary, it would mean that all the dissatisfaction we feel by the citizens of Serbia has some justification, some justification for some of our behavior, some of our irresponsibleness. Therefore, in any case, we will vote for this amendment that we ourselves have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35616	Anyone else want a word? The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35617	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members of all committees are selected proportionally from the number of seats, which is also normal for each party to get as many members as its representation in the Parliament itself, so that they all get proportionately their strength. What is the percentage representation in parliament, the same representation should be revised when it comes to committee members, as it stands in Article 28. A bill of this law. However, what the SRS insists is that both the number of presidents and the number of deputy presidents should also be proportional to the number of seats. It is normal for parties with the largest number of MPs to get the highest number of presidents. The voter's will must always be respected until the end, and in addition to the allocation of parliamentary mandates, the number of board members, as well as the number of presidents, must be evenly assigned. Deputy president, just like the voters wanted. The voter's will must not be exceeded. It must be respected until the end, because otherwise the purpose of the elections would be lost. We, unfortunately, have cases today that we have board members, and even the presidents of the party committee who did not participate in the elections, and that is something that is inadmissible. With a situation like this in Serbia, the importance of the elections is significantly reduced, and post-election shopping is something that is gaining more and more importance and weight, thus opening up the possibility that individual criminals and tycoons can have a major impact on Serbia's political life. The work of committees and committees themselves is of paramount importance, because they also consider bill proposals, follow law enforcement, as well as the work of government and other bodies and bodies whose work is supervised by the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution and law. In view of the importance of the Committee's work, I have also submitted this amendment, in Article 29, to add exactly Article 4 which reads: "The provisions of Article 28 of this Law apply to persons under Article 1 of this Law. "By adopting this amendment, we would get the number, apart from the number of members of the election boards and the number of committee leaders, to be determined in proportion to the number of seats, which would eventually respect the voter's will, and the voter's will is something that must be binding and something of great value, importance and weight. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35618	It's been used 30 seconds since the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I have submitted this amendment because of the previous negative experience we have had and I think it is necessary to specify that parliamentary groups can be formed exclusively from the order of MPs, but above all from those parties that have participated in the elections. This is what the government of the Republic of Serbia has been doing since the beginning and attitude. We even got a few interpretations when it was a matter of financial resources to whom it would go. The principle has been true since the time Bogoljub Karic stole that one parliamentary mandate. You know that at that time some other parties also became after the parliamentary election. Thus, the SPO entered parliament, although it did not participate in the elections and did not reach a sufficient number of votes. Accepting the possibility that a party that did not participate in the elections will later be in parliament, that it has its own representatives, that it can even form power, means a complete collapse of democratic principles and values. I don't think that's really supposed to happen. A similar political stance at the time had DS, other parties had. You know that the Serbian Radical Party on this issue has always been principled. We never stole other MPs, even though we were often offered. We have always voted on the Administrative Committee, regardless of which party, whether the ruling or opposition party, to return the term of office to the party that won it in the elections. I must once again, unfortunately, the former Parliamentarian came out of the hall, but I must quote his words, what he meant when Bogoljub Karic stole the mandates. He, as I said, has now removed several young people, I guess, so that he would not look like him, but here's what he said at the time: "The Party of God, Karic, could not enter parliament, because no one can enter parliament without elections." That's where I absolutely agree with Mr. Nikolic, but then the question, how did he get into the parliamentary benches today? He says further: "Then we would be the first state in which a party has become a parliamentary year and a half after the elections. In the West, the MP is allowed to step down from the parliamentary group, but it is unacceptable to change the parliamentary party, and it is particularly unacceptable for a party to take parliamentary steps by way of entry. "Then comes a lecture on morality, indeed, with which I also fully agree and he says and goes further: "This is a test for the Serbian Orthodox Church. Can Bogoljub Karic buy everything? Can he buy an oath before God? Because, if he can, is he in the Serbian Orthodox Church? 'Cause whoever tries a believer like that, gentlemen of the elderly, Mr. Nikolic claims to be the only devil. He says, "Only the devil, and the devil is no place in the Serbian Orthodox Church. Bogoljub Karic boasts of close ties to the top of the Orthodox Church. He thinks at the Roman Catholic Church he can make up for everything. There is no forgiveness of sins for money in Orthodoxy. She can buy Bogoljub Karic in the future," she says, "to think about buying married women from houses. Where's the end? It seems that the end is a little further away, now they're not buying, though, by married women's houses, but during election campaigns, they're sharing glasses, tea for the future, pressure metering machines and the like, but you'll admit, some kind of shopping has not yet reached married women, but slowly. '"He goes on to say, 'two months ago he said everything was for sale and for shopping, but here it was an oath given before God. He didn't buy one man, the easiest man to buy, he bought an oath given in the temple before God, because he needed it. ''And, watch this, I think it's very important,' said Mr. Nikolic, at that time loathing those who stole the mandates in the National Assembly: 'no one at another's accident took advantage. Those who gain happiness in another's misfortune, know that it must be punished and that thief in Serbia who leads the Bogoljub Karic", and today this Bogoljub without youth, "must become, otherwise we will become a mass in which there is no order, nor morals, nor faith, in which there is nothing." Therefore, gentlemen, dear, you who have not been to the elections and are sitting in this assembly, according to the head of your parliamentary group, you are a mass in which there is no order, no morality, no faith, in which there is nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35620	It was used three minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Aleksandra Jankovic submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35621	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a beautiful sentence: "for the rule of insanity they chose," and when they realize that it will take a little time, they will understand, even the voters of their message. Let's get back to what we're supposed to do today. Article 33 should define the functions of the Secretary-General. We from the Prosperity Group of Serbia's Progressive Party have proposed a change of attitude 1 because these functions and tasks are not related to the person or function of the president, but to the National Assembly as a whole. The proposed solution is not acceptable because, in practice, it leads to the fact that the basic condition for the appointment is belonging to a party from which the president or personal connection is, although it is not a political, but a professional function. Taking into account the fact that the Secretary-General decides on the employment of professional staff, such a solution inevitably leads to the full politicisation of the entire Service, which becomes reserved for the staff of the party to which the chairman belongs. If it is accepted that the choice of candidates is a personal matter of the president, then it should be prescribed that the Secretary-General is also changed during the National Assembly's term of office. For the same reason, it is proposed to change and other views of this member. The provision that the function ends with the resignation is unnecessary because it is a general rule of law, so it is not necessary to introduce such a provision into the law, because it is not possible to force anyone to perform a function if they do not. If the National Assembly and the legislator do not accept this amendment, we suggest that at least a correction of the wording errors be made in paragraphs 2 and 4 where the secretary writes "skeleton". I hope the parliamentary majority will not vote "skeleton" instead of the secretary general. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35622	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35623	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by the SNS refers to the Deputy Secretary-General's institute. As far as we all know, a few months ago, we had a chance to reduce the number of employees in the state administration. The fact is that thousands of people are going to be out of work, and here, by law number one after New Year's, we're introducing a deputy secretary general, i.e. We increase the number of employees, according to the SNS quite inappropriate, unnecessary, and even, I would say, and immorally, given the state of public finances, to the necessary reduction of public spending. I think that it is the obligation of every MP, whether he is in power or in opposition, to advocate that public spending is reduced, to dissipate the economy, to dissipate the citizens and to allow in every way the costs of this Parliament, as well as how important institutions, but institutions that require certain expenditures from citizens and businesses, to be as small as possible. I find that the amendment is in place and that the ruling majority needs and how to think about it and, possibly, to decide that this institute of the deputy secretary general should be abolished. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35624	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35625	When someone demagogues, not arguments, tries to convince citizens that they want to represent their interests, then we have exactly what we've heard. First of all, we don't introduce a deputy secretary general, he exists forever. Secondly, the amendment, which is proposed to change the secretary's position, is completely unfounded and I will not use any other term. So, you can't name a person to replace an official. If it is necessary to use a congregation speaker for a demagogy that citizens would like to hear, then I think we should try a little bit and find an argument that can pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35626	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35627	I have no doubt, ma'am, that you have arguments when it comes to the replacement of the secretary general, but I believe these arguments were not so bad, too. I also believe that, regardless of the position the Secretary-General has, there is no reason for someone in the professional service not to be in a position to replace it and to do the job temporarily, that it may be authorized by the Secretary-General. Therefore, I do not find this amendment so bad and that it is inadmissible in practice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35628	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35629	So this proposal is not so bad, it's absolutely bad, and that's why we couldn't accept it. The secretary is an organ in the congregation, called the National Assembly. His duties and responsibilities cannot be taken over by an officer. It is simply the logic of things, and it was absolutely impossible to consider this amendment in terms of a serious amendment that would improve something in the Assembly, because you cannot be a secretary appointed by the National Assembly and who is the authority of this Assembly to replace it with an official. It's like saying we shouldn't have vice presidents, but it'll replace the president's staff.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35630	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, and Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35631	I don't know, Mrs. Kolundjia, do you have any practice and knowledge of how ministers are replaced in absentia, whether there are deputies, assistants, what state secretaries do, how in the case of absentia public enterprises are replaced by directors or those who perform that function, whatever they're called? And, is, indeed, the explanation that you state, alone, the formal term "officer or principled departments" sufficient reason to introduce the functions you are talking about, if there is an institution of facsimiles in which even lower officials make very high and important decisions on behalf of those who are here competent, if we have denials of responsibility to people who commit some kind of offense with an explanation – no, I didn't know; no, I didn't sign that. I'm not just talking about this here, I'm talking about giving up some moves by a coalition partner, governor, etc. and that the formal introduction of a man who changes someone in absentia in the National Assembly, which is otherwise demoted by the way decisions are made, by supplying materials, by respecting, where you, of the National Assembly, rightly create the authority of the government. And the basic reason for the adoption of this law is contained in the request of whoever helped to pass this law, the USAID institution, which requested, in the first request, here, the document that you probably had, to introduce independence in decision-making and to make this home independent of the executive authority. One kind of arrogance that defends any objection that is being made here is that this assembly is not experienced by the House of Parliamentaryism, but by the house where it is the host of power, the one that is currently in power, and that the opposition here cannot have a concrete proposal which, I say, is enforceable, because the absent director and the most important businesses where it is responsible for very important things change, to make a pandan for the Assembly, the heads of department, or the service, which they do, prepare materials and end up the most important part of the work as the other line of management, as the professional part that makes this assembly and which I personally respect, and you cannot say that they are not willing to do this work, but may not be enough for you to make and implement imposed political decisions. And our reason for this amendment was just to avoid excessive politicization and abuse of the home itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35632	Three minutes and 15 seconds. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35633	You probably know better how organized companies and public enterprises are and who they can replace there but, let me, parliament is politics and we are all here, first of all, politically, and most of the opposition are political. When it comes to depoliticization, then we can only talk about services and we absolutely advocate that what the services of the National Assembly be completely professionalized and completely depolitized. To ask that the appointed person in the exercise of authority is replaced by the official, indeed, there is none possible, however I interpret, the system, or this system which is the Assembly, the way in which it can be applied. That's all I'm saying. So, without arrogance, sometimes I may speak more temperamentally, so it may seem to you as arrogance, but I'm not arrogant, I just don't see any basis for such an amendment or there's any space that the appointed person in the exercise of its powers replaces any official.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35634	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35635	First of all, the addition of those who are formally in places that make it possible by choice to change someone's fall in the water with the very experience we witness on a daily basis. In the absence of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, she is replaced, and all vice presidents could be on the same level, but, most often, Mrs. Gordana Komic, the rarer Mr. Novakovic, only sometimes Judita, I think once or twice, Natasa Jovanovic, and Mr. Delic, I think he only changed the president once. I'm talking about the possibility of a formal and a choice of man who could change someone else in absentia. That equality of conduct, because there are formal preconditions, just doesn't happen. Your relationship with whether or not someone can replace someone is the first thing about verbal expression, goodwill or respect for procedure or parliamentary practice. The fact is that this law established the State Secretary in the Ministry and you didn't take it for analogy to be changed, wanting to disprove my claim because the argument is on my side, and the ministry and the minister are political figures that are elected here. The introduction of officials, who manages the authorities, for the secretary who decides on progress, and we know why we mention it, about the rank of a man who is important to the secretary of state in one ministry, and yet serves only a position, is the reason for opposition because he is appointed by appointment, is not elected, and as you have a conflict over who will defend your interests of minorities or equality, so dispute whose candidate it will be, it says enough about whether you need professionals or listeners. We did not expect you to adopt this amendment, but we want to reveal to citizens the story of an alleged professional relationship, of a relationship with parliament, of its capacities and so on, because, when the president of the Assembly says in one of his congratulations, parliament should be a place to speak nicely about Serbia, that means that whoever represents Serbia should work well for Serbia and that it is not a problem as anyone talks about what he is talking about, but what he does and what it does to such actions as comments to the public, MPs or anyone. It's quite clear that you're doing the solutions that suit you here. And I say to you: bear in mind that no one has burned before dawn, and take no time away from the authority of the future by having to change bad laws for the first time, no matter how much they go in favor of those who wish to exercise authority. Because, you know, unlike you, there are people who, under the authority, involve responsibility, not authority and protection of their own positions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35636	Three minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35637	I wouldn't speak of responsibility and self-loathing now, because I'm afraid that you might find yourself in that case, perhaps on the other hand, in relation to what you'd like. But I want to say something else, if you can say that it's the same that the secretary is changing an officer, as well as the comparison that the president of the assembly can change the vice president of the assembly, then I'm afraid there's a fundamental misunderstanding, which I no longer intend to try to remove. All MPs are potential candidates for the president of the assembly and potential candidates for the vice-president of the assembly. Whoever gets the most votes for president gets elected president. We, too, choose the vice-presidents from the ranks of MPs, and they change the president under the authority of the president. On the other hand, we have a situation in which we appoint a secretary, the National Assembly, whom you think can be changed by an employee who's hired to compete. It may be a practice that, perhaps once upon a time, if you decide how the Assembly should appear to be changing it, but it is not a practice that one organ inside the Assembly devalues in a way that we appoint to replace it from the ranks of officials. All I can say is, if I were a secretary right now, I'd be so offended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35638	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35639	Mrs. Kolundjia, please, I simply do not allow you to say that I wanted to say that it is the same. No, it's absolutely not the same thing that the vice president, one or the other, is changing the president of the assembly and changing the secretary from one of the chiefs of staff. But I literally wanted to show your consistency in respecting one vice president or another. Why is it less worthy of anyone not to change the president of the assembly in his absence? Your way of respecting parliament, elected and appointed persons, speaks of your relationship with democracy, and every excuse of well-meaning, like that college that needs to serve you as a body that will be advisory for the president of the Assembly, edit the agenda or so, it is about how much you force us to work here every day; 38 new points of the agenda we get, and when we write amendments for that, e, it says how much you want this home to be a place where the laws are discussed. So, no, it's not the same, but it's about your way of understanding and implementing parliamentaryism today, which is devastating, not just for us, but for the citizens of Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35640	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35641	Now I can accept that what you said means that you didn't want to replace this amendment with the secretary and that you yourself think it's not possible and it's not logical, but I have to say that I didn't understand what you really wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35642	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35643	Mrs. Kolundjia, the fact that you didn't understand what I was going to say maybe it's not so important, it's important that the citizens understand what you're doing, and your effects feel enough. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35644	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milić, Judita Popović, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Nenad Prokic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35645	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment is very clear. We ask that Article 37 of the Law on the Assembly be deleted. A member of the 37th ruling coalition is practically calling for the Constitution and a law regulating the choice of MPs. We have talked so much about the need to abolish this controlled mandate and free Parliament's dependence on those who control parliament by having the resignations of MPs at all times. I must say, Mrs. Kolundzija, since you are a representative of the promoter, that the Law on the Selection of MPs has not regulated the matter of mandate and the control of the mandate of MPs in the Assembly, so now, if we talk about laws, you are calling for a solution that does not exist. The only basis for the blank resignation is Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He says, "The People's MP is free to, under certain laws, irrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of the political party... 'And we are the only country in the world that has an open suspicion of credibility, the ability of a representative of a citizen. We have been running for membership in the European Union and this candidacy obliges us to behave differently. Today, the Minister of Government, responsible for the affairs of the state administration, speaks openly of the need to free MPs of the blank resignations, and we here adopt a law that does not allow such a thing. What are our experiences? We have examples of parliamentary clubs that have activated the resignations of their deputies, so the Administrative Committee has failed to respect that. Several SRS deputies went to another party, their parent party activated resignations, so we didn't even respect it, the constitution didn't respect it. If we did not respect this Constitution in the case of SRS and SNS relations, why do you now force us to respect a constitutional solution imposed on us four years ago, which has been fiercely criticised in the meantime and which is without an example that we can rely on in parliamentary practice? From the 17th century until today, no one has captured an MP in this way. That's not the problem with the heads of the party or the heads of the parliamentary groups here, that's the problem with people who agree to something like that. We don't agree. Let us settle our relations in a different way, to agree on a solution to situations that are real, which by no means represent us less than any other parliament. I told you, during the debate in principle, in the Czech Republic 40% of the MPs changed parties in the second term, in Ukraine, of 400, 300 changed the party at one time, in Spain it was common...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35646	People's MP, do you allow me to interrupt just to welcome the guests to the gallery, the moment you speak about what it was like in Spain? Thank you. Dear MPs, before we continue the work and MP Cedomir Jovanovic continues his presentation, to inform you that there are members of the delegation of the Kingdom of Spain, headed by the President of His Congress. Your Excellency. Jose Bono Martinez. The members of the delegation are Mr. Jordi Hane I. Guać, Vice-President of Congress and Mrs. Selia Villalobos Talero, Secretary of Congress of Spain, as well as His Excellency Injigo de Palasio Espanja, Ambassador of Spain to Belgrade. [[Applause]] – Señor President, Benvenido a la Asamblea Nasional de la Republic de Serbia! [[Applause]] National MP, thanks to you once again for allowing us to welcome the delegation of the Kingdom of Spain, you may proceed. [[Applause]] This time won't be included, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35647	I'm sure this applause was sincere and it's an expression of our respect. I guess that respect comes from some of the concrete results that we're looking at. Let's settle our internal relationship in parliament as our guests from Spain have arranged, to solve any problems that are real in situations where internal conflicts occur! This is how we tie our hands and our feet together, in an ambition to create a modern state. To all several countries in the world, we have already talked about this: Fiji, Nicaragua, Venezuela, Pakistan, in general, have some form of parliamentary control, but no one as rigid as Serbia itself. We have been criticised by the European Commission for this, the Venice Commission is criticising us for this. We can't go over those criticisms. Give us one understandable argument why we tolerate something that is so bad and that has long been rejected, and why do we compromise ourselves beyond all limits that can be tolerated? We'll march here on Tuesday with the Garda presence, and each of us will be a spider, given that the resignation is the one that thinks for us. We expect you, Mrs Kolundzhija, to respond to what was the obstacle to the adoption of this simple amendment which, on the one hand, has its foothold in the fact that parliament has already violated that constitutional norm and, on the other hand, we are building our right to conclude that the Law on selecting Members of Parliament has not addressed the issue of mandate at all, nor is it envisaged that the blank resignation as a form of control of the parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35648	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35649	Dear Chairman, imagine that there is no other position of Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and then read what a member of the law we have proposed sounds like to you. Imagine that there is no mention of the possibility that the MP should make his mandate available to the party, then does the provision of the law, which we have proposed here, have anything that is controversial? So imagine that there is no other position in the Constitution of Article 102. I have to tell you, what we can't do is put a provision that's contrary to the Constitution. Therefore, between these two possibilities, we put a provision that, even if at some point the law and the Constitution regulates this issue, it will not be contrary to that, because we only assume that the MP freely has his mandate, therefore, as a basic democratic assumption, and we only put it in the law, of course, by relying on the Constitution and the law that discusses it, because we have nothing else to call on. We are not in this law able to prescribe what is the subject of the Law on the Selection of Members of the People. So imagine that this law defines that there are no resignations and that it is unequivocally clear that there are no blank resignations, would this member of the law bother you? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35650	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35651	I can imagine so there's no such thing as Article 2(2). The constitution and I can imagine that 90% of the Assembly, apart from the LDP and the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, has no converted resignations in the safes of its party centres, but that's not realistic, that's not a description of our moment. I'm talking about what Parliament is doing. Parliament was very clearly in breach of the Constitution when it failed to activate and respect the Administrative Committee of the resignations of a parliamentary group, which were given in accordance with this Constitution. I repeat, we are not to be deprived of our mandates, but you yourself did not respect the Constitution then, and now you are asking us to make peace with it as with the Bible. I'm sorry, we've been running for the EU, so the professor is the head of our delegation in the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission and the Committee for Democracy, here's her report... What's to prevent us from making a decision here in parliament right now that the MP is free in the assembly, that no one can relieve him of his mandate? There is no parliament in the world, Mrs. Kolundjia, in which it is possible. Then we can say in parallel - we will pass this law and launch an initiative to change that member. You don't do it, you tell us – here, it says in the Constitution. We can part politically, and say, that's the price of the ruling coalition you've made. But this price has big consequences. If there is no freedom in parliament, then democracy is threatened, and the society of threatened democracy cannot be a European and modern society. Then there's no freedom in the media, no religious freedom, no cultural freedom, no creative, no sexual freedom, no economic freedom. Then what kind of company are we? If the head of the party has the right, based on the Constitution, to convert, to request the resignation of his MP in advance, why does the head of a company not have the right to request the resignation of his employee in advance and to activate it. Then what kind of society do we make? Why don't we respect the examples of the world we see? Well, now we've applauded Spain, let's take her example. Since the 17th century, we as one liberal party have been unable to deal with it. And in doing so, we all know very well how compromising this situation is for anyone who tries to explain to someone why it only happens in Serbia and nowhere else in the world. In Pakistan, the MP remains without a mandate if the Constitutional Court prohibits his party, in Venezuela, which, you will admit, should not be a role model for Serbia in the matter of regulating parliamentary life, the MP remains without a mandate if the majority of citizens asking for his shift from the citizens who voted for him. But nowhere can the head of the party remove the resignation of the MPs, which was written two or three years ago, and replace him for not agreeing with him. You are a democratic party and you are a pro-European coalition, you are leaders in European affairs in Serbia. The European Commission criticises us for this reason, the Venice Commission criticises us for this, we are a paradox and this should no longer be tolerated. Let's say we adopt this amendment and at the same time launch an initiative to change that attitude, Article 102, point 2. The constitution and that is how we free this Parliament. Under that compromise, it's very difficult to work normally. We have had our differences in the parliamentary group, part of the parliamentary group thinks in one way, the other part disagrees with that, but we normally, in a political sense, carry that burden. Everyone takes responsibility for their political activities. Well, there won't be an end to the world if your MP group splits up on some matter. We don't need to underestimate our people. He will know that he takes a clear view of someone who blackmails and abuses the circumstances in which someone is present. But this is not going to accomplish everything that I think was present as an intention when we began to think about the Law on the Assembly, the Law on the Assembly that had passed the laws for 20 years, and that it had not regulated itself by law. We don't do that now, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35652	Four minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The People's MP, Hope Kolundji, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35653	So, what kind of society do we create? I believe that we are creating a society in which, among other things, by respecting the Constitution, we will change those parts of society and those experiences and those practices that distance us from our basic goal. But we certainly can't pass a law that would have provisions that could fall in the Constitutional Court and that's the only thing I can agree on, or I can believe that if this article is deleted that you think that we then removed the confirmation of the Constitution. I'm just saying if we imagine that the Constitution doesn't have a problem with this article, and that's why I don't think it's important to adopt that amendment, and it's no problem for us to remain this member, because while one of them claims that we're nailing the blank resignations of others, they claim that we're taking off the blank resignations. So, he is obviously neutral enough and starts with the basic democratic principle that the MP freely has his mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35654	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35655	I'm going to quote Vesna Pesic who says it's pure volunteerism and it's actually the only correct definition of what's happening to us. We did not regulate this law the relationship between the Assembly and the President of the State, the Assembly and the Government, the Assembly and the Constitutional Court, the Assembly and any other state institutions, because we said these were details that would be arranged for the Rules of Procedure. We do not deal with our immunities in this law, although it requires a part of the public, because we believe that enough is answered by the law establishing the Anti-Corruption Agency, but this is the first law, Mrs. Kolundzija, which, apart from the Constitution, gives additional legitimacy to the blanco resignations. There's no mention of anything like that in the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliament. Why it simply didn't leave it at the level of the Constitution and beyond any law. So we now have a law on the Assembly that confirms a reverse constitutional norm, which passes its foothold somewhere in the Middle Ages, and we don't have the courage to behave the way most of us here might want, at this point cannot because of your insistence, and that is, to isolate this Constitution and to make the Constitution the only foothold of that wrong attitude. If it is not in the Law on the Selection of MPs, what will the Law on the Assembly do? Leave it open, and then whoever is considered injured shall seek his right before the Constitutional Court, and like this, at the level of the law, you bind our hands. Tomorrow, you will see a parliamentary group, perhaps during the day, with a request that their mandates be returned. How are we going to behave then? They have every right to request today a session of the Administrative Committee with the resignations of the MPs who left them. We are opposed to that, we believe we should end it, and this, therefore, under the Constitution, first introduces into the law the possibility that an MP should be controlled by a blank resignation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35656	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35657	I'd like you to read it to me, Mr. Jovanovic. Please, where does the blank resignation say, so where are you, in which of these words that stand in the law, you find a blank resignation, if it says "the MP freely has his mandate"? Where's your resignation? Well, yeah, but if the Constitution changes and those provisions in the Constitution don't exist, well, yeah, but imagine if someone can't respect the Constitution. So we always refer to the Constitution. Every law must be called upon to the Constitution and must be based on the Constitution, and if you think we are doing so, then we simply can't, or you think that by law we suspend the provisions of the Constitution, it can't, either, or we can't ignore the provisions of the Constitution, we can't, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35658	Just to answer the questions about the remaining time available to the LDP parliamentary group. The president of the Parliamentary Group has 11 minutes at his disposal, and the Group of MPs nine. Cedomir Jovanovic and Ivan Andric spoke. In that order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35659	I'll answer that question very clearly, Mrs. Kolundjia. First of all, I'm not asking you to act against the Constitution. I'm just saying you're calling for attitude 2. The constitution, which says the MP is free to, under certain conditions... What law? For the first time – it's this law. In no other law will it exist – irrevocably put your mandate at the disposal of the political party, in accordance with the law and the Constitution! Now I ask you, when you passed the government law, did you mean the Constitution? In what constitution, find me, there is also a Deputy Prime Minister? In what constitution is the first Deputy Prime Minister? Let's not list now all the anti-constitutional provisions you've come up with. I'm telling you, it's the consequence of a mess in the country that we need to change. I suggest we start changing it by changing ourselves. You had to sign your resignation to be MPs. I'm also fighting for your rights. It doesn't matter if you're aware of the importance of that right or not, but it's very important to us. If you have a ruling majority who rests on the sounder, you have replaced MPs, they did not know, come to the Assembly and bring them back to the assembly door and say – you are no longer an MP. What kind of democracy is that? What kind of freedom is that? That's our problem. The first law to confirm this tragic solution from the Constitution is the Law on the Assembly, not the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, there is no mention of resignation, but, by acting here in the Assembly, we ourselves said that this Constitution does not oblige us, that it can and otherwise, so we did not respect the resignations that one parliamentary group contributed to. Now, we can play deaf phones, but it is very clear what is the result of such a solution – the legal basis of the wrong constitutional decision that has so far not been able to find a foothold in any law. Especially is the problem with the fact that then in such a way the impression is made in our public, that resignation, not good politics, is a guarantee of the survival of your coalition. It bothers us, not so much because of you, but because of the fact that Serbia is denied for the democratic changes it needs and has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35660	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35661	First, I continue to insist that there is no mention in this article, nor insinuate the'rest', except for what the Constitution says. I'm not going to talk about it any further, because I think it is now, let me say, a tool for a controversy against which I have nothing. I believe that the controversy in society, about how we develop parliamentaryism, and how we justify institutions, is the controversy we need to lead, and that's not what's controversial to me, but I don't think now is the time to open the story of the Constitution and the changes to the Constitution. Now we have one law here and what we're talking about here is whether the law is in accordance with the Constitution, on the one hand, and whether the law, on the other hand, prescribes something that reduces democratic space and relative to the Constitution, which I really don't think is true. I think setting yourself up in a way that you're defending the integrity of others, I think it's a little tasteless, at least. You should not defend the integrity of the MPs who are in front of the DS in this House, nor prove to us that we may not have the awareness that this is important. I must tell you that the awareness of the importance of democratic change in the DS has been borne since its very establishment. He insists on it and implements it, only that DS may take too much into account for someone's taste to respect existing rules, that what they are are rules that are established we respect. I don't think it's right to claim that the resignations of this coalition are political, not political. I want to assure you that the policy supported by this ruling coalition and the realisation of that policy is what keeps us as DS in that coalition, and as long as we achieve and fast the results that citizens recognize, we will stick to those coalitions, and no resignations are something that holds us in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35662	Ivan Andric, Cedomir Jovanovic and Vesna Pesic also applied for the word. You get your word in that order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35663	The replica for insinuating that the intention was to pass an anti-constitutional law, as the applicant of the amendment. Really, I have to react very strongly against it. No, the intention was to break out the fog that was created. You just said a few things. The first thing, you delayed the settlement of the resignation issue, which we said was a controversial issue, even when the constitution was passed. You've delayed, you said, representatives of your coalition, I don't think of you personally, that this issue will be resolved when the law on the assembly is passed. However, a few days ago you said that this issue would be settled in the Law on the Selection of MPs, and now you're telling us that any provision that releases MPs is impossible or unconstitutional. I ask you, now, directly, that is the question, in addition to this important issue of freedom, which was referred to by Cedomir Jovanovic, who appears in continuity as an obstacle to European integration. Every one of you knows that. The matter appears in every report on the progress of the European Commission. Are you telling us that our constitution is anti-European? Is that the message you're sending and that it's impossible for us as MPs to do anything against it? We say to you – that is not true. The constitution, even as it was written, leaves an opportunity for the MP to be free in a legal manner to use his mandate as he thinks he should. That's not true. If you don't believe us, we're evidence of a group of minorities. There's anti-European behavior here, not the norm of the Constitution. One more thing, you directly offended us when you said that you wanted to set up a set of rules, which came out that we allegedly didn't want to. No, that's exactly what we're fighting. Here's an example of breaking the rules, it's a direct example, the DS doesn't want to establish rules. The rule only makes sense if it is a provision that is long-term, is not a rule when the Governing Board, based on its majority, decides whether it is an MP or not, based on whether it supports the ruling coalition. It's not a rule, it's not political. This provision continues to spread that fog. She says the MP is in accordance with... Take a look at the following article: "The MP is defined, stepped forward and voted for his own confidence. '"It's only missing a point, and in accordance with his resignation as given to the party president. What kind of free belief is that?- I'm sorry. So that free belief has a limit. The limit is not to face the interest of one of the ministers! That's the limit of that free belief. And we're telling you now - don't put this norm into the law! Let the Constitution remain the only place in which this norm is found! And then, let's all go together, like all political parties, to find a solution and that provision of the Constitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35664	Thank you. It's been three minutes. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. Mrs. Hope Kolundji, please. First, Mrs. Kolundjia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35665	Indeed, I don't think we have a dispute over what a step would be significant for Serbia in the further development of democratic institutions, above all, parliament and Parliament's independence and the independence of MPs. I don't think that's what we're arguing about. And I think the argument has gone well into the deadlock for one entirely different reason, and I assure you there are no resignations in this provision. To prove it to you, I accept your amendment and leave the Constitution and other laws to regulate it, because our idea was never, we never said it, I want to remind you, so we never said that we would regulate the resignation issue by this law. We always thought it was a question of the Law for selecting Members of Parliament. To assure you that we had no intention of nailing something with this law that you think is a process that needs to be changed, on behalf of the promoter, I accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35666	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. You need to reapply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35667	This is a great encouragement for us. We are pleased that such a compromise solution has taken place, because when we wrote this amendment we were convinced that there was enough power in parliament for the kind of work that would improve Serbia's democratic life, not confirm some anomalies and mistakes and poor compromises that were the necessity of time in which the Constitution was defined. We asked, once again, for the public who is following us to completely delete a member of 37 who says that the MP is free to have his mandate in accordance with the Constitution and the law governing the choice of MPs. Since we do not have a law on the election of MPs to which the matter of mandate has been regulated, as the only basis remains the Constitution. In the Constitution, in the view of Article 102(2), it was resolved in such a way that democratic Serbia was compromised. Let's not repeat the 2006 mistake, but to stop now, to find in the time ahead a quality solution. We're satisfied, this has been a key question for us and we're very pleased, let's say, with the understanding we've found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35668	Thank you. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I understand correctly, the question of mandates after Mrs Kolundjia has adopted the LDP amendment, will not be regulated at all by the Law on the National Assembly, but by some special law, possibly by the Law on the Selection of MPs. However, I must say that this attitude from a purely legal point of view is wrong, and here's why. The law on the election of MPs only regulates the way someone comes to office. Elections are coming in, parliamentary elections. What happens after someone gets a mandate? This should be regulated by the Law on the National Assembly, not by the Law on the Selection of National MPs. We only get the mandates when we become MPs when we get the right to participate in the work of the National Assembly. The election law only provides for what the procedure is to reach a term of office in parliamentary elections, on the basis of trust or mistrust of the electoral body. What happens after the mandate and how he can stop, I guess it should be regulated by the National Assembly Act. The question of a term of office is not a harmless matter at all. If anyone felt it on their skin, she felt it on the SRS. We had blank resignations, we submitted them, everything was in accordance with the Constitution, everything was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, however, the will of the DS and its coalition partners was that these mandates could not be returned to the SRS Parliamentary Group from one unblessing explanation, that, apparently, Dragan Todorovic, as head of the parliamentary group, had no special power to hand over the resignations of these MPs, although nowhere in the Rules of Procedure, and I did not read anywhere in the Constitution that any special power was needed. The special power of attorney is the Institute of Civil Rights, and anyone who mechanically transfers civil rights institutes to the functioning of parliament, neither on law nor on parliament, in fact, knows anything. There's one going on these days, I have to say, well, slightly communist, Bolshevik, Marxist campaign against political parties. And now it's one of the top hypocrites that demonstrates the DS here. They were selected as DS candidates. This country was never more of a party state than it is now. She is now more party than she was during Slobodan Milosevic. You can't become a cleaning lady in one of the municipalities today if you're not a member of the DS. You can't exercise any of your rights if you don't have a strong connection in the DS. Now, in such a state of affairs, this same DS, like, for God's sake, is horrified by the role of political parties in the functioning of parliament. Now, when you bring their arguments down to absurdity, you get the next conclusion. The role of the political party is just to run for MP. When he is elected MP, every relationship between that MP and the political party ceases. Then comes the classical Marxist rhetoric - the political parties are like this, so they are not free-minded, so the freedom of the Messengers is trampled, etc. Of course that's not true and of course freedom in democracy isn't some absolute theoretical freedom, in the sense that anyone can do what he wants. Discipline as a social phenomenon, so it exists in every segment of organised human society, exists in parliament, as it exists in the military, as it exists in the police, as it exists in education, as it exists in health care, and as it exists everywhere. Some link between the MP and the political party must exist, because if it does not exist, then that means that the MP can sell his mandate tomorrow, that he can make his will to his children, that he can take it out on the market, so whoever offers more will be an MP, on the other hand you open the door to corruption. I fully respect the principle of LDP. They have their own attitude to handle, and the examples they state are accurate. What is not true is the social situation that exists in Serbia. This social situation is not the same as in Spain, as in Germany, as in Sweden, etc. That's what this is about. You can't mechanically prescribe norms from one system into our system, and that social opportunities are quite different. Where is it in the world? In which Spain, Germany or Sweden can buy tycoon MPs? In what country in the world? Mr Cedomir Jovanovic will also agree. On the day of the election, the minister shares packages for the people to vote for his party. In what country in the world are government funds engaged to win the election? In which country in the world is one party, the ruling party enters the elections with a predetermined view that these elections must be won? It's not at all a question of whether or not she can beat someone else. No, I have to win. How? All permitted and unauthorized funds. Where is it in the world? There's nowhere to go. On such social occasions, completely abnormal, corrupt, irregular, irregular, you will apply an institute from some democratic states and say – the mandate is free. Now, all you tycoons who have the money, all of you who can get to that term in some unprecise way, please, do what you want. Of course the SRS is against it. I don't mind, there are parliamentary groups that have no resignations from MPs. It's their right. I respect their right to do so. But also, they must respect the right of other parliamentary groups who believe there is a need for a mandate that belongs to a political party, because we can never confidently know what tomorrow will be. It could be bought tomorrow by some MP of the DS. He could be a bought LDP MP. You don't know what the day is and what the night is. So what's it gonna be? Then the Management Board, if it comes to the mandate of the DS, will say yes, the mandate is ours. When it comes to the SRS – no, the mandate is not yours. You are free of your resignations, free of the fact that the same people have signed blanco resignations twice, free of you that some people have bought ID cards from the MPs of the SRS to reassemble the blank resignations, all of this is worth nothing to you because Dragan Todorovic doesn't have any special power of attorney. The special power of attorney was not requested when the blank resignations of people from DS, G 7 plus, from the SPS, etc. were activated. The institute, which requires special power of attorney, has been invented to find some valid explanation for why the mandates should not be returned to the MPs, or to the SRS parliamentary group. I must say, perhaps Mrs Nada Kolundzija has taken this wrong, but it is really unserious that parliamentism is playing with people who have started to learn about what parliamentism has started five or ten years ago. Parliamentaryism is an institute that lasts for centuries. There are deeper roots somewhere, like in Great Britain, where your roots are shallow, but in any case, it's one phenomenon that has a centuries-old tradition. We cannot now invent what parliament is and what the role of political parties is in the functioning of parliament. You could hear even here in the National Assembly these days that MPs of the ruling coalition do not have the same attitude about whose mandate they should be. G17 Plus gentlemen say – given the nature of the electoral system, it is normal for the mandate to belong to a political party. Mr. Bosko Ristic says – no, the mandate should be free. Then they say, "We have all agreed, all agreed, but, behold, this evil and corrupt opposition did not want to cooperate." The ruling coalition itself, in fact, does not know what its position is on some essential issues. It's not a matter of whether the guard is lined up and whether an anthem of "God of Justice" will be intonated. That's some protocol stuff. The assembly won't be any better, no worse, no guard, no guard. But the question is what is the relationship between the political party and the MP. It's the essence of Parliament's functioning. Whether we have a democratic parliament that will mirror the electoral will of citizens or this will become one stock exchange, one market, so whoever has more money will also have most MPs in parliament. If you listen to statements and some of the people's MPs of the DS and their god-awful intellectual speakers in the media, then it turns out there's nothing worse in the world than political parties. They're choking freedom, dictatorial, they can activate our resignations, they're suffocating democracy, and so on. Since Mrs Nada Kolundžija respected me yesterday as I reportedly learned from some bad books about what parliamentaryism is, here, I will now be free, I am sorry that she is not here, to read to her what political parties think, no doubt, our greatest legal theorist Slobodan Jovanovic. It is a book, or one piece on the state, that is, the fundamental legal theory of the state: "The political parties in modern democracy explain the need to organise public opinion. They aim to gather and discipline people of the same opinion. They aim to find that opinion, that formula, that phrase that will make an impression on that hesitant mass that has no opinion and awaits from another directive. The parties are resented to tear the people into enemy groups, bring into the state's life dissension and quarrel. Some writers have explained the existence of parties with fighting instincts, which are always stronger in man and his preferences for sports and games. This explanation could have been true for the old aristocratic society, when the parties gathered around some of the greats who squabbled among themselves, out of excessive pride and insecure desire for adventure, and the whole political struggle was seen as one game, in which the main question is who will take the first prize. In a democratic society, the parties have a completely different meaning. They do not bring dissension into one nation, which would have been left to themselves, but rather try to bring countless tiny, personal wonders and views, which exist in one nation, down to a number of large collective opinions and that the place of a large number of small groups, none of which represent any political power, create a small number of large well-disciplined groups that are able to take on themselves the burden of state administration. The parties, therefore, are organisational forces. They're not uniting, they're uniting. Just as a capitalist company and a large-scale business organization, without which today's economic freedom could be thrown into a commercial anarchy, so the political parties are also ordering the form of a political organisation, without which no order and unity could be entered into these large masses with general voting rights at the polls. "If this remains what Mrs. Hope Kolundji has now accepted, then it will turn out that the Law on the National Assembly is completely unnecessary and that apart from these ceremonial and procedural things, candlesticks, intonation of anthem, guards, the College of the National Assembly, that's all icebana, that's all decor. If it is not precisely defined by the Law on the National Assembly whether the National Assembly is a democratic institution reflecting the electoral will of citizens or whether this is a stock society, a stock market or a flea market, then it is a complete waste of effort and working groups and MPs, and authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, then the Law on the National Assembly is one big nothing, and then, in fact, it is a prelude to fully trampling democracy and the electoral will of citizens. Since the Law on the National Assembly here is explained by people who believed in an unclassified society, who believed in the ideological monopoly of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, those who believed that political parties were harmful, those who believed that there existed so-called. unpartisan democracy, they are today in the National Assembly trying to undermine the elemental democratic principles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35670	Since the time of the authorised representative, 1146 minutes have been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35671	How much time do we have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35672	You've got until 15 left, just over three minutes. The group has nine minutes and 50 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35673	Okay, thank you. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Excuse me, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35674	I answered the line after Mr. Martinovic mentioned me. I absolutely agree with Mr. Martinovic's description. Everything he said, describing our political life, is absolutely correct, and there's nothing I can argue with, I have no intention. What I think we all need to understand is the fact that the Law on the National Assembly, which as it is written, does not really provide adequate answers to the essence of the problem that a good law requires. We don't just regulate relationships, we have a strong influence on all other relationships in society. You know, until we put this law on the agenda, everyone else had a fundamental right to ask us a question – what do you prescribe for us, when you don't put yourself in the framework of the law? It is true that it was politically unsustainable in 2005 and that you were right that people who traded political beliefs appeared. Our government, I must tell you, fell on it, formally in the Assembly, it was politically destroyed on March 12th, but it fell when several MPs changed the parliamentary group and as soon as they made a deal with the G17 party, secured their future on its list, they emerged from the ruling majority. It was known that there was no policy and that it was purely existential motive. We need to find a different kind of answer to that problem. It's our mutual obligation. We must not ignore the fact, even though we all come from parties here, that we are inextricably connected between us and our constituents. I'm not a supporter of the majority system for many reasons, for example, from the arguments you listed here. It is not an equal race that should be run by a candidate for LDP MPs and the president of the municipality, but even more so because it pushes significant political will out of the institutions. But if we want a proportional system, then let's make it more acceptable for society. Let's see how we can solve that question. We have examples. I agree that we cannot compare ourselves with others because our social circumstances are completely different. But we can't even make peace with them, agree to them because some of us are bad. You, I'm sure, next time more carefully, based on this experience you've had, will choose your MP group, whatever it is, and others will. But I think public condemnation is something that has an immeasurably greater weight than any other. It's true, she's been missing so many times, but, amongst other things, and because of what we've been taking over, we've taken over the sanctions. There are courts and other laws to sanction, say, corruption. I think we should take care of that. (President: Time) Here, another 30 seconds. By adopting this amendment, we haven't solved the problem we're talking about. We just updated it and we should work on it together. We have before us a debate on the Rules of Procedure, which I think opens up a space for the start of this work and we are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35675	Mr. Alexander Martinovic. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35676	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we should all go back to the essence, which is for whom citizens are assigned in parliamentary elections, whether they are assigned to individuals by their own personal qualities or by their own means, or by political parties' programmes. The SRS is deeply convinced, and the logic of the electoral system speaks in favour of our position, that citizens in the elections opt for political parties' programmes. Citizens were not directly elected to parliament by Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic or me, but by the authorities of political parties to whom Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic and I belong. It's in the logic of our electoral system. Here, the thing is going off in a completely unwarranted way. If I understand Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic correctly, before I present any SRS position on any issue, I should consult voters first on what they think of it, and then pass on their views. Is that possible in today's society? Of course not. And where does the people test to see if we did his will properly? In the election! If the people think that we have properly presented them in the Assembly, they will give us confidence in parliamentary elections, bigger or less. If he thinks we're not, he won't give us trust. I get the impression that before the session of the National Assembly begins, we should ask voters – what do you think of the Customs Law, the Law on Income Tax and all the other laws that are in the procedure? That's impossible. This is where we come out from the point of view of our political parties' programmes. First of all, it is immoral for someone who becomes an MP because the people believed that he would fight in parliament for a programme when he became an MP to completely change the story and represent some completely different attitudes. Then one elemental question is asked – is our policy principled or not principled? There is an excellent article in the "Serbian Voice", an organ of the Serbian cultural club, written by Dr Slobodan Draskovic, on policy principles. A man, nice, says - can't be a communist today, and tomorrow an anti-communist, today a corrupter, tomorrow a cleaner, today a monarchist, tomorrow a Republican. They can't represent all the principles, all the politics and all the ideas. You can't be a big Serbia today, tomorrow for small Serbia, today say -- no, we're basically absolutely against the EU, tomorrow you become a European measure in Serbia and say, well, we can't go with Vojislav Kostunica, it's not European enough. You can't say – under no circumstances can we co-operate with DS, and then in the municipality of Prepolje you co-operate with DS and declare the Bosnian language for the official language. You can't say - I am an opposition, and before you say that Boris Tadic's policy is good, but the problem is not being implemented. (President Gordana Komic: Time. That should be the essence of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35677	Thank you. Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35678	There are a lot of arguments that are absolutely correct, but they haven't exhausted the argument. I'll tell you one example from, now it's history, 7 or 8 October 2000, Zoran Djindjic and I went to talk to your president. There was a major crisis in the country. The election results spoke of our victory. Radicals, regardless of all the political extremism that marked their previous performance, have always acknowledged the election results. We met at the inauguration of Vojislav Kostunica, at the Sava Center, and agreed to meet the next day to try to formulate some way out of the crisis, because you were then the ruling party. You were in power both in the Republic and in the Federation. The only thing your president was interested in, in that conversation he didn't ask the question of election results at all, and it was clear to him at first, he looked at his own, and then everything else, and it was clear to him what happened, finally, and the events put an end to everything, the question of our position on the Electoral Law. So, okay, parliament is disbanded, a transitional government is formed, I accept all of this – under which Election Law elections will be organised in December. Do you know what the Electoral Law was like back then? There were 28 electoral units. It was not the same valuable voice in Belgrade and somewhere in eastern Serbia or Kosovo. What about Kosovo? Where we can organize elections, we'll organize places where we can't abuse the situation. We've always looked for one constituency and stood behind one constituency. If the old election law had remained, you wouldn't have 20 MPs, you'd have, say, 10. We felt it was important for Serbia that all parties, regardless of what seemed in the past, act within the framework of the institution. We didn't artificially try to push someone out. This is one situation which is an example of making a political decision by, on the one hand, taking care of the party's interests, but, on the other hand, understanding the situation that there are not only parties. All of what you said, including those principles in politics and their definition of us, is acceptable. Reality is something else. We don't have to agree to that, but we can't ignore it. If we want to affirm political life in the country, then, people, you said – we will not ask citizens, of course, that we cannot ask every voter, but they must be sure that at all times we make decisions freely, based on some beliefs, not on what someone came and bought our party president, regardless of whether we are talking about payrolls or much bigger issues that have a dramatic impact on the life of the country, not on the inhabitants of one street or one city. This is not the point of being respected by our amendment, and what is practically a prolonged solution to the issue of MP status and political freedom. This is one big positive step and it should be supported despite all the other problems that follow this law. The most controversial thing for me is that those who did this task force don't even participate in the discussion of the law... (President: Three minutes)... from the head of the commission to every member. They went on a business trip, then they split up, and we're discussing a law we haven't worked on at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35679	Anyone else want a word? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35680	It seems that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic and I have agreed on the essence. There's another problem here. In Article 1 of this proposal, the law says nicely: 'This law lays down the position, jurisdiction, organisation and manner of work and decision of the National Assembly, position, rights and responsibilities of the Members of Parliament... ''When you say 'position', you mean status. What is the essence of the status of the MP? The nature of his mandate. If this is deleted from this law, then what is the law on the National Assembly? Then you must also change Article 1. Throw out the law to regulate the position of the People's Messenger. They're not regulated by this law, they're regulated by some other law. Whether the Law on selecting Members of the People or some other law remains to be seen. It is pointless to say in Article 1 – it is regulated in this law, and then Mrs Nada Kolundzhija accepts the LDP amendment and the mandate issue is deleted. Then they did not regulate the position of the messengers of the people. The guard, the anthem, the assembly budget, the National Assembly's college, it's not all the position of the MP. The question of the term of office is the question of his position. If the mandate is not governed by the Law of the National Assembly, then there is no regulation of the position, of status, of the People's MP. Another question is raised – how will the Administrative Board work and on what basis will it make decisions when the Constitution points to the law? Mrs. Nada Kolundzija refused to regulate the matter of mandate with this law and we will wait for some new law to enter the procedure. What about until then? Under what regulation will the Administrative Committee decide on the resignations of the MPs if, according to you, the Constitution is not sufficient, because it points to the law, and you persistently refuse to regulate it by law? So, what, are we supposed to wait for the government to have mercy and put some law in the procedure to regulate the matter of mandate? Who knows when that's gonna be. And what if, even then, you say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So, what in the meantime? Then you leave an empty space, which is not legally decorated. So, what happens then? Abuses happen. If one law should fully regulate the position of the MP, therefore, his rights and duties and the nature of his mandate, well, nothing more logical than to be regulated by the Law on the National Assembly. And it makes more sense to you, to you, it's more logical, both the guard and the anthem and the budget and the college of the National Assembly, but it's just not a logical mandate for you. That's completely pointless, then. This is all the rest of the spine. The Assembly can work with both the guard and the guard, with the intonation of the anthem and no intonation of the anthem, and with the college and no colleges, and with the budget of the assembly and without the budget of the assembly and without a thousand other things that you have put into the law. But if you don't regulate the matter of mandate, the essence of all the essences of this House, then you haven't actually regulated anything! And finally, the public created the wrong picture that the SRS is suffering a lot because of the kidnapped mandates. No, we're just sending a message to the electoral body -- those who are willing to steal the mandates, they're ready... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... to steal your wallets, and to leave you without a job and to deprive you of all other elemental rights. Because if they steal here, well, imagine, then what they'll do when the cameras go out... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35681	People's MP, the time available for replica has been used. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Boris Aleksic has submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Kolundjia, Article 38, is pointless. He sounds great, indeed, fantastic: "The MP is defined, stepped forward and voiced by his own conviction." Great. However, you did not pay attention to the famous Article 102 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because, apparently, according to the Constitution, the MP is to some extent limited in his freedom, as is every citizen limited in his freedom that he exercises in the state of his membership, with the freedom of other citizens. This is where we were already talking about the famous blanco resignations. They are provided for in Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's why this member of your bill, Article 38, is not complete. To clarify what this is all about, let me remind you that the Constitution is the highest legal act of a state. The constitution, exactly, and has that name, because it stops, limits power, primarily executive power, but also all branches of government, of course, primarily executive power. So those who are in power can't do what they want. They have to take care of the Constitution. The laws must comply with the Constitution. There is no need to put these formulations in place because they are unsustainable according to the electoral system and according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When you change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then you can boast of these definitions. Introduce the system that exists in the U.S., in the UK, that members of parliament run in certain constituencies, as many MPs as there are, there are so many electoral units, and there are variations on the subject, so whoever wins and gets the most votes under his name and name, he becomes a member of the representative body. That's possible. But while candidates for MPs are on the political parties' lists, while citizens opt for a political party programme, you won't be able to do it. In theory, there are three functions of political parties, they secrete, represent the will of the electoral body, on the one hand, they discipline, it is another function, political parties, discipline the elected representatives, and, thirdly, it is to inform the public. That's how it is in political theory. It's very precise, so it's been there for centuries. You make such proposals practically abolish the Republic, you arbitraryly abolish the members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You can't do that. You cannot legally abolish, restrict, reshape a member of the Constitution. If you don't know what to do, you have to copy it. If the MPs can do whatever they want, indeed, we will be in a position to trade in the parliamentary mandate, and that is exactly what is happening. The topic has been raised, however, by Saric, no one has raised the issue of their boss sitting in Montenegro, who is the same name as our colleague from DS, Micunovic, because Sharici is an ordinary puppet. You've launched an investigation. You've found certain links with individual political parties. And when the investigation led to the fact that through "Metals Bank" the Sharics also had ties to Pajtic, that they had something to do with "progressors", your partners with whom you create a two-party system, you suddenly shut up. It's forbidden for BIA to conduct an investigation until the end. The D.A.'s quiet. They're agreeing with representatives of Montenegro. It'll turn out to be "eat a donkey wolf." You were playing with fire. So we can't let mobsters, tycoons, control parliament in Serbia, first of all, that's our interest. I urge you to, if you don't know what to do, copy a member of the Constitution, and then try to work something out, but to comply with that member of the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35683	Two minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35684	Mrs. Komic, I invite you, as a very responsible person, who closely monitors the exposures, to forward what the previous speaker has said in his presentation to the competent authorities and to carry out checks on the extent to which Saric or the already mentioned criminal and incriminating persons have connections with 'progressors'. Because it's really inadmissible to bring something like this up in public. So please, on behalf of Parliament, your parliamentary groups, forward this discussion to the competent authorities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35685	National MP Boris Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35686	Thank you, Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, firstly, the competent authorities have already examined quite well, so that they can provide information on the subject, of course. I will remind you, Mrs Tabakovic, that this case has already been mentioned in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia several times, and it has also been mentioned in Serbian circulation media. You're a little late, as far as I'm concerned, but it's better than ever. So it is already mentioned in the National Assembly some three or four times that "progressors" have ties to the Saric criminal clan. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35687	People's MP, I suggest you read a stenogram of your previous presentation, where it stands, that you have knowledge that BIA has been banned from further investigation. So I ask you to be careful when we speak, no matter what the content of each of our statements is right to a free word, well, when we say next time we know what we said and the last time. So if you have any knowledge that the BIA has suspended the investigation you're talking about, then of course you're obliged to inform the D.A. as well. The previous exposure is 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35688	Mrs. Komic, the problem is that the investigation is not completed with concrete acts, the problem is that Saric has escaped, the problem is that the prosecution and some other authorities have not done their job. By the way, the seizure action of nearly three tons of cocaine was great. It's not a question of that. The problem is that the state apparatus didn't go all the way, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35689	Anyone else want a word? National MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35690	Mrs. Tabakovic, it would be good if you were already here and you were already in the mood to talk about who you were having an affair with and who you didn't have them with. Here, I would ask you to answer me if you and your party leaders have anything to do with Milo Djukanovic. Do you have anything to do with Stanko Subotic Canet the Frog...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35691	People's MP, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35692	Just one more name and I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35693	I'm warning you, there will be a measure of warning to move away from the agenda. The amendment, submitted by MP Boris Aleksic, is on the agenda, which talks about acting in accordance with the decisions of the parliamentary group to which the MP belongs. So either you talk about the amendment or I'll be forced to give you a notice for violating a member of the Rules of Procedure who obliges us to talk about the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35694	Dear Mrs. Comic, I just wish you had the same archaic. It's no problem, I'll finish my presentation, but I think it'd be simpler if you'd let me say another name. I would ask you to have the same arches for all the MPs in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35695	The National MP, the same archeologists and the exact same treatment in the presentation of any MP from any member of the Parliament group, can be sure of that with insight into the stenogram, any intervention I have had in accordance with Article 27 and the application of all members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, relating to the course of the session. One of these members is also a debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35696	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, you're very kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35697	I know. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35698	I would, very briefly, within these two minutes, as far as I have to talk about this amendment, no more going back to this big and important controversy and discussion that we had about Article 37, because I think Mrs. Nada Kolundzia made the right decision by simply throwing this controversial question out of this law and leaving it right for another opportunity, and possibly for a change of the Constitution. Therefore, I will no longer return to this question because Article 38 is a little contradictory with Article 37, because it says: "The MP is defined, stepped forward and voted by his own confidence. Therefore, it is recognised that every MP is free to represent himself in this congregation. What we wanted with this amendment is that the MP in some way commits himself in his behaviour and that this - 'freedom' gets some sort of content, and then we thought that he was obliged to take these actions he has, therefore, that he would 'determin', 'output' and 'voting', that it was contentious to take into account; all that was delivered to him in the argument, to use that argument and to use his opinions in parliament to argue, even when it was a vote. I think it would be good if this amendment had been adopted, that the MP was not just some machine, but that he and those opinions delivered to him and outside parliament, for example, could be NGOs, could be individuals, that the argument that comes to him would take into account and take into account the arguments of his opinion in parliament. Also, the second part of this amendment has not been considered. I wanted to point out that this assembly in 2005 brought the Anti-Corruption Strategy to parliament. That's why we said it would be very good for the MP to always report if someone tried to buy his opinion, exactly what we were just talking about earlier, to suggest to him, to suggest that he should have an impeccable offer for the vote, to report something like that right away. Also, we think it would be a good idea if it were to find itself in a situation of conflict of interest, to immediately report something like that to the President of the Assembly, meaning, to the bodies of the Assembly. I think it would be good if this amendment had been accepted, because it contained elements of the fight against corruption and that every MP should participate in the realisation, otherwise, well-written Anti-Corruption Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35699	I thank Mrs. Pesic. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 39th amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35700	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a member of 39th, in fact, represents the development of Article 103. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have provided for our amendment that this article 39 be fully identified with Article 103. The constitution, which speaks until the end of what rights related to immunity, related to its position, has a MP in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You here immediately, at the beginning of article 39, say, 'For an oral or written opinion, or a vote in the exercise of its parliamentary functions, the MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility. 'Course, this is prescribed by the Constitution. However, what message does this bill really send us? This is clearly seen by the fact that under this bill, MPs seem to have no right to a public word. We don't want to do our job, use the only weapon available to us, which is to send a message to the public. For what? It's that famous article 11, you don't have to look for it, where you're practically introducing the possibility of public transfers being transferred, re-transmitted at some point in time when no one's living is watching it. The very word Parliament leads to the origin of words to speak. If you deny the possibility for MPs to speak or if you convey what they say at a time when they all sleep, then Parliament is unthinkable. So either we have the right public of parliament, the public of work, direct television transmissions, no assembly channel, no cable television, it is known, it is a state television covering the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and beyond, it must be included. Only, in that sense, the message sent to this entire bill is bad. Then speak in article 39 about certain rights and how the MP will do his job, indeed, is, in some ways, pointless, therefore, if you take away the right to speak freely and to hear our word, for it is the only power we have. We don't have any repressive apparatus, as has the executive authority, we don't have the possibility to make certain court decisions, solutions, which have to be executed as a judicial branch of government. The only thing we have is the power of public words to urge certain jobs to be done to the end and to exercise control over the executive branch of government, and certainly through us and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who chose us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35701	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35702	I must admit, I apologize, I followed closely, but still, I didn't understand how your explanation could be related to your amendment. In your amendment, you suggest that Article 39 delete Article 5, which reads: 'Among a MP who has not called for immunity, a criminal or other procedure may be conducted without the approval of the National Assembly, in which a prison sentence may be imposed. '" So, I don't understand. If the MP considers, if he is free to have his immunity, or he may not call for his immunity, then how do you now associate with the right to step forward, the right to public work? It's just that if the MP doesn't call for immunity, he has the right not to call for immunity, a procedure can be conducted. So that's what this attitude is about that you're asking to erase.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35703	The word is Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35704	I said in the beginning, you didn't listen to me very well, that what you're trying to define in article 39 is already defined in article 103. Of course, the amendment is symbolic. You speak in full article 39 on certain rights that the MP has in carrying out his duties, and with this whole bill you deny certain rights, i.e. You deny us the right that is most important to us. So we're using this amendment to warn you what you're doing with this bill. Otherwise, you had this defined in article 103. The Constitution. You're copying somewhere, you're not copying somewhere, you're adding somewhere, and so on. In some members you're completely copying, in some you're changing the members of the Constitution, in some you're trying to change the members of the Constitution, as related to Article 37, which we've been discussing for a little while, so that's the problem with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35705	It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35706	I don't know on what basis you can prove that you're being denied any right, because if we consider that over the past year we've had about 1,500 hours of debate, the opposition has had 1,200 hours of debate, and 90% of it has been in direct television. I do not know in which way you are now accusing us of denying the right to the MPs of the people, above all, the MPs of the opposition to give public opinion to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35707	Mr. Alexic, please, you have four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35708	Mrs. Kolundjia, just because the opposition spoke more means that the opposition is working, and that the position is only there for the quorum to give and vote when it should, therefore, be like a voting machine. That's the problem. You've disciplined your MPs, exactly, through the blank resignations, which your master of karate is very well guarded, and they're really doing everything you tell them. So that's not controversial. As you deny us rights, I told you – right to the public word. If what I say, for example, at five o'clock in the afternoon is broadcast at four o'clock in the morning, not me, but any of us, that's the problem. We can't work, then there's no sense of parliamentaryism in this country. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35709	Mrs. Kolundjia has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35710	I believe that the citizens of Serbia realize that what you said does not stand in any way, because whoever follows Parliament's work sees that up to five hours of that time you also use a lot of that time, and I think it is precisely possible that the reason why they are voting less and less for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35711	Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35712	I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, because I was hoping that at least slightly you would warn Mrs. Hope Kolundji, that the current member of the bill regulates the issue of immunity, so she's twice saying something that has nothing to do with immunity. You had to warn her that this type of cartoonation of the constitutional provision of Article 103 is unacceptable through this member of the bill. However, to remind you, yesterday they swore, only they had not released blood, that the provisions of the Constitution should be consistently copied. Here they have shown some of their authorship as interpretations that are inappropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35713	Unlike you, I have not assessed that the Constitution has been compromised and has not been injured by the Rules of Procedure. If you are dissatisfied, we can plead as parliament in the voting day. (Zoran Krasic, from place: nothing will change. You're right. Mrs. Kolundjia has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35714	So if your member of the parliamentary group, explaining his amendment, is talking about an issue that is absolutely not the point of the law that it is, then, let me react to that, as an authorised representative of the promoter, speak in relation to what he is saying. So I didn't impose a topic that's off this point. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35715	It's clear, there's no conditions for replication, really. There's nothing offensive, it's all clear. I'm really sorry, but I can't give you a replica. Mr. Boris Aleksic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35716	It's all clear but it's not true. Mrs Kolundzhija, you have created a new parliamentary group that has not participated in the elections in the Republic of Serbia's Parliament by violating Article 102(2). As far as the subject is concerned, this is Parliament law, I'm talking about the essence of parliamentary work, I'm talking about what the function of the MP is. You're making this bill impossible for us to perform our duties. The fact that you are speaking in Article 39, which is now a particular topic of discussion, on certain rights of Members of Parliament, is pointless, because you have abolished them by Articles 11, Articles 37 and other members of this bill. That's the problem. If you don't understand, read the stenograms. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35717	The 39th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35718	We have taken this amendment from Transparency International on their behalf and on our behalf to the Assembly. We think it's important because in a certain way, as it is now defined, although we support this solution, of course, leaves one small space for certain legal uncertainty. I'll try to explain. If a function is not on the list of functions that are automatically incompatible with the parliamentary mandate under the law, and then it is subsequently found to be incompatible with the parliamentary mandate, then the Anti-Corruption Agency Act says it ends later. So that's what the Anti-Corruption Agency Act says. We are proposing, because each of us, when running for office, is known to perform or intend to perform another function, but it is not explicitly stated by law that it is incompatible with the parliamentary mandate, in order to avoid any misunderstandings, and we are introducing another rule, that it is better for those who are candidates for MPs – to obtain the previous opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency and at the same time commit the Anti-Corruption Agency to give that opinion. It is a situation where one of us thinks that another function he performs is not in conflict of interest, i.e. when it comes to a function that is incompatible with the parliamentary mandate and, then, having that opinion with him, simply, comes to the Assembly when the mandate is verified. We support this solution. You see we're adding a third position, we're just saying that there's one situation that will eventually decide whether to belong or perform two functions, and then we're collapsing about which function stops. This law is quite explicit, which we agree with, that it must stop another function that is incompatible, but the Anti-Corruption Agency Act says it ends a later function, in some cases it may be a mandate, or the function of a MP. We're just suggesting, therefore, that we remove one vagueness, I say, again, it's not ours, it's proposed by Transparency International. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35719	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35720	By considering this amendment, we have come to the belief that this is how we prejudge the verification of the mandate, which I don't think is right. The verification of the mandate is carried out under a certain procedure and it is very clear. If we were to prevent the MP from being a credible mandate, we would deny him the possibility of him leaving another post in accordance with the law, we would have already prevented him from becoming a MP in advance. Therefore, because of this sentence that no mandate will be verified, that only the Agency's opinion is sought and that it is binding we could accept, but since it says it will not be a credible mandate, then we think that it is not in line with the way in which MPs' mandates are elected and verified.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35721	The Committee on Justice and Administration submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The proposing representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The proposing representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, accepted the amendment. The Justice Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35722	This is the only amendment that was adopted and submitted by the Prosperity Group, Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party, and how seriously written the law itself speaks, and this member in which it was appointed as the duty of the MP to be informed. Did you manage that analogy that the ignorance of the law does not excuse the citizens, for example when they do not apply for the military or do not pay taxes, I do not know, but it was really pointless, especially because of the frequent reference to practice, that MPs are being denied or delayed the ability to perform parliamentary functions precisely because of the way this information was organised, i.e. meeting materials and all other rights. There's a dilemma I need, it's really important to me to resolve. Many here identify an institution with an unnamed ship, whether it's a company, a political party, a Assembly. This unnamed ship, political party or company or assembly, is not an act on registration, not buildings, not parking, not a name, but people who perform functions in those institutions. In that sense, when I put objections in the way I work, I put them in principle. On the contrary, by putting objections to some behavior, I make remarks to my longtime friends, but I warn them that the practice they do is not good. Then when I make remarks to Governor Jelasic, Dinkic or anyone, I'm not interested in them as individuals, but their behaviors that have a devastating effect on us as citizens, but I really ask that many of us, and if I do so, don't tend to always be right and in everything. This home serves to cross different thoughts and get to the best, and at least the right to claim to be the smartest, always right, have those who get the worst grades from citizens, and that's the election. In that sense, I think it's very important that each of us is very concerned about what terms, which words, uses, and that no one can protect anyone from the penalty for lying. That's why I'm warning my young colleagues from the party that I belonged to to make a lot of difference when they're using lies by trying to earn or summon some, so that they can justify their bad judgment of someone with an ugly word that I can possibly say. They won't hear it from me, but they have to make sure that life is ahead of them and that we have to serve the truth and really don't abuse trust, but not the trust of the citizens, the people we spoke to, we write programs and we defend them day and day. Thank you for letting me speak on behalf of the adopted amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35723	The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35724	Article 46. The bill tried to regulate something that belonged to the exercise of public office, and the exercise of public functions implies, above all, authority. However, there is talk here about the duties of MPs. This indent, which I have covered by this amendment, refers to the regulation of duty to the MP, how he will express his opinion in the National Assembly. I agree that some other laws and other provisions should be taken into account, in particular some provisions of the laws guaranteeing the protection of personal data. It is not possible, however, that only the MP forbids him to present the facts. The problem is with the fact that they are always true, there are no material and formal, but the fact is true, no one else exists. And here you gave such a formula that you represent a drying fact as a free interpretation or attitude. I have to remind you, yesterday was a beautiful scandal in the European Parliament, an English MP has made it look like an acidic'something', wearing a suit as a third-rate banking officer, two or three MPs sighed, a person covered by that qualification smiled and moved on. Michael Moore made a beautiful documentary about the younger Bush seven-eight years ago, so he showed what Al Gore was doing as Senate chairman, when a large group of senators of African-American origin protested over the end of election will and election results in Philadelphia. I will not use examples from Asia or Africa, because they cannot be compared to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Keep an eye on it, Article 10. The European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights, where freedom of opinion is guaranteed, has its clear, recognizable meaning, and the fact that someone sometimes does not like words does not give him the right to conclude that he is the most objective observer and interpreter of what is said. There are a lot of problems with Article 46, you've done more than possible. You're talking about certain duties, forgetting that it's public functions that only give some authority. That could be a big problem. Make sure that if one of the MPs is quoted here, as you have written this, from some judgment, it is possible that you and the MP may be removed from the National Assembly, even though it is facts. So I'm telling you, take care when you use the word " fact" and when you use some words that point to the opinion, attitude or personal relationship of an MP. Of course, if you wanted to regulate this area the right way, then you had to pay attention and that the media very often...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35725	The time of your parliamentary group and the time foreseen for the amendment has expired, so that there is no more time. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milić, Judita Popović, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Nenad Prokic and Kenan Hajdarevic together. Mr. Andric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35726	This is the second or third key thing about this law. In order for everyone to know what we're talking about, we suggest that Article 46 adds a new attitude to Article 3, which is that - the MP cannot bear any adverse consequences because of the fact that he did not participate in providing the necessary quorum for decision-making. So it's a topic that appears from time to time, I mean since there's a multi-party system in Serbia, so it's an obligation for MPs to do quorum. We are always, when we talk about it, complex in the fact that the determination of the quorum is not a working obligation, that it is a political decision. So every party sitting in this parliament in its history today has, for purely political reasons, boycotted parliament's work in some period. Given that the position of the 1st member states that the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly and its committees, in principle, we agree with that position, it is one of the reasons why we are all here, but what we are objecting to is, among other things, statements by the President of Parliament that add confusion, which shows that it is not clear to everyone what this obligation is to participate in the work of the Assembly that I am not wasting so much time, it is clear that you have repeated this several times, that in the current Rules of Procedure there is an obligation that if a quorum is not given, or not reported by the Labour Act, the status of an employee is lost. The point is that not giving the quorum has nothing to do with participating in the work of the Assembly. We would like it to be clear once and for all, and we hope that all MP groups support this position, that no moment in the future in our work there is any doubt about it. So giving the quorum is a one-time move, it's very political. I didn't give the quorum today, nor yesterday, I think I'm very much involved in the work of this assembly. It has nothing to do with whether I want to interfere with the work of the Assembly in any way or not, but the quorum reflects a political decision. Not to repeat myself endlessly in a circle, I don't think that can solve the situation. I was an MP and vice-president of the Gordana Comic Assembly remembers that there was an obligation in the Serbian Parliament in 2001 to sit at all times more than 126 MPs, so the assembly did, however, not give a quorum. We have accepted amendments to the Rules of Procedure no longer necessary, but we want this issue to be clearly highlighted. So, the obligation, according to the Labour Law, can refer to whether someone is coming to the Assembly, whether or not they are doing the work, but cannot possibly refer to the political fact whether any MP, however, the ruling majority or opposition, gives a quorum, because it is a direct political issue, it is one of the tools that MPs have in them. They may not be able to influence the agenda, they can't affect other decisions individually, but whether they're going to discuss some point and how they can affect very directly. We think this is essential because there are always some dilemmas whether it's okay or not to give a quorum or not. We think this will give a unique message that will say that it is a direct political issue and that it is left to everyone at will. Of course, we assume that, as so far, the MPs of the majority will give a quorum, when some parliamentary group supports some proposal will give a quorum, when not – no. Of course, we insist that this is completely separate from the duty of the MP to participate in parliament's work. We think it's an entirely different duty. We ask you this way to break all these mists and support this amendment of this article together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35727	Mr. Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35728	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS will support this amendment. That's what I was talking about in the first place. In this regard, the first two indents mentioned in Article 46 reads: "– participates in the work of the National Assembly and its committees". This was at least to be explained in more detail, because what it writes essentially implies that it participates in the work of the Assembly, so this is unnecessary unless participation in the work involves something else. And if there were room for doubt, the bottom line is two. It says: "- acts in accordance with the decisions of the National Assembly's competent committee", so, the Administrative Committee, "which regulate the rights and duties of the Members of Parliament". Unfortunately, it is easy for me to imagine that a congregation majority who has a majority on the Administrative Committee could prescribe that, for example, an MP must give a quorum or prescribe that an MP must attend the session. I don't want to remind you, I think that almost all relevant political parties have since there's been a multi-party in Serbia at some point boycotted the work of the Assembly, because it was their political decision. Last time, I think, she just boycotted the DS, I think, in 2005. But it is a political decision whether we will come, boycott the sessions, whether we will boycott one session, whether we will boycott one point, as is of course a political decision, I can vote for Mr. Andric's amendments, I can be against that amendment, I can be abstention, and I can also have a political assessment that I will not plead. So it's totally logical. This is a good amendment and I unfortunately said that this amendment and some other amendments will not fix this law and the DSS will, I suppose, vote today against the adoption of this law thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35729	Thank you. The 47th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group, and MP Zoran Krasic. Otto Kishmarton has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35730	Dear fellow Members of the People, this is one short member of the law, and the SNS has proposed that this member be deleted, and this member reads, "The MP is entitled to pension under the law." With this member's existence, nothing will change with respect to the MPs and the retirement of MPs, nor would, again, if we were to delete this member change anything in the law. A national MP gets the right to retire like all other citizens in Serbia who have been employed, so the existence of this member may give the impression that MPs have some benefits when they retire because they were MPs, which is certainly not the case. So I don't know what might be the reason this member should exist in this law. We can also prescribe that an MP may be used by a passenger car in accordance with the law. So nothing new says this member of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35731	Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35732	When, at the order of some who bought the media and who want to save their capital and their wealth and want to have any effect on the formation of the government, when they decide, they tell the journalist – write news from well-informed and unofficial sources, we have learned that MPs will have the right to retire under well-informed conditions. Then the journalist publishes it, and the National Assembly is foolishly struggling for seven days with untrueness, and then after seven days it is realized that there was neither such thing in the Draft nor in the work material nor even in the thinking. Then the subject of the story is inserted so that the same newspaper would in the worst way possible, not selecting ugly names, besieging both the National Assembly and the People's MPs, to prevent the debate on who wants to build a new government, as it wants to provide 126 MPs through free mandates. That's the story they're talking about, but you need to know if any law can exist without a single member then that article is not the place in that law. However, the much bigger problem with this concept of the law is that you MPs and their working status are equating with working relationship. If that were the case, the working relationship of the MP would be based on the competition rather than the election. You've confused something, something that's only status-equated in some rights. It's not that, contributions are paid, taxes are paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35733	Thank you, time. Mr. Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I would like to express my position briefly, my group's position on this amendment. Article 47 of the law, which says the MP is entitled to pension under the law, is excessive. It's too high for a simple reason because everyone's entitled to retire in accordance with the law. We are, and the reason why I came forward is this one, we understand that this sentence has to stand in order to finally avoid the speculations that have appeared in public that the only purpose of writing the law is to introduce some privileges, so that MPs are singled out and out of the conditions in which all other citizens live, which I want, this time, to say that it is not true and it was never the subject of consideration nor the reason for the law being passed. I want, too, to be clear – I am a member of the task force that worked on the draft of this law. Never, any version of the law was on a task force that involved any privilege compared to the pensioners. I'm saying this because we've been in some situations that we've suffered such criticism, which is normal and logical when it comes to the public, should be criticised, but also insults that can't be convinced now. One newspaper, which they hold serious, even made a lie that on December 11th, a task force was held, which, behold, established a draft law in which MPs' privilege as a major thing was to retire. For these reasons, I understood the desire and need of the task force to make it clear to the public that this is not true, that MPs like everyone else will retire under the same conditions. That is why I understood the request, that is, the working group's desire to send this message clearly to the public, given that it essentially confirms only what was always present in our position, that MPs must share the fate of the people. I think this time this member is too high and I'm invited by a proposing representative to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35735	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35736	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, indeed, out of sincere intent to protect the National Assembly and the People's MPs against the unscrupulous intentions of which this institution is, and we in it were exposed to something that was someone's structure, so total untruth, we, therefore, deliberately put this member into the law, as counterpart Petronijevic said, in order to break that rapal salva, which was directed towards the MPs, completely unfounded and without any basis. So what we now know, from the very beginning, seems to be excessive, was necessary in order to break up one campaign against the National Assembly and the MPs, I accept the amendment that has been submitted, completely in the belief that we all share the intention to protect this institution from those who need to devalue this institution and us in it, in fact, allow things that are not acceptable to happen in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35737	Thank you. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35738	In some ways, the President of the National Assembly is left discreetly with the right to invite certain persons in this home, certain people, to address us, and these people can be friends of this state and the SRS with that there is no problem. On the contrary, we were very pleased when Russian President Dmitri Medvedev was here and he addressed the MPs in this house. But there's something else here. In the history of the Serbian people, there were often individuals and groups who were trying to make their own interests, whether individual or group, try some other way to accomplish, in ways that are not suited to the tradition of the Serb people. Sometimes your ways, unfortunately, reminded and resembled something that looked like a crawl. I don't argue that crawling can sometimes get very high. You know that story, when a bird in a tall tree saw a worm, and asked him where you came from or how you got this high, and he answered it by crawling, only by crawling. So, you can also crawl very high if someone wants to do it that way. However, to receive someone into this Assembly, who is an absolute enemy of the Serb people, who explicitly pleads against the vital interests of the Serb people, is absolutely unacceptable to the SRS. Our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, did not bow before the International Court in The Hague, in front of that political court freak at no time, nor at the cost of his life. As you know, he did not try to crawl in front of them in evidence that not only he was innocent, but that he was an innocent Serbian people. We are truly proud of what he taught us and taught us not to crawl before any force, and that is, in fact, the essence of this amendment. (President: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35739	Thank you. National MP Milan Avramovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 51a be added after article 51a. There's a word. Here you go, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35740	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when we are already deciding on how the National Assembly works, on the rights of the MP, because in a position we can no longer do so, because we have found that Article 37 is too high, I have to draw attention or digression to what is the practice in parliament, which is that they are compatible points that by nature things cannot be compatible and that one minister, let's say the Minister of Defence defends the Transport Act or that an orthopedist defends the law on planning and construction. My amendment intervenes precisely in the sense of replacing such a practice with a reason that each Government representative is obliged to attend the assembly session, when his draft law is on the agenda, for the simple reason that MPs themselves would have the legitimacy of explaining the amendments, asking a question and getting an answer to the same. The bottom line is that it cannot be combined with what is incompatible, that it cannot be the Law on Agriculture and the Law on trade marks on the agenda at the same point, because it is known that according to one item of the agenda, you have a certain time in which you can discuss it, that it is shared in relatively parliamentary groups, and that you deny MPs and MPs to discuss all the laws evenly in the weight in which it should be, in relation to the weight in which the law is difficult. In order not to compare "grandmothers and frogs" and not to waste time on important and irrelevant things, my amendment should, in the nature of things, be accepted, then this parliament would have a complete democratic procedure, to discuss all issues that are on the agenda. This is how you have a law that's on the agenda, and nobody mentioned it, and it was passed and voted without any debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35741	Thank you. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 54th amendment. Mr. Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35742	In Article 54, we propose that it be deleted in the position of 1 that it says – in the event of the disbanding of the Serbian Parliament, only ongoing or urgent jobs, item 4, which says – 'or that requires the needs of the state'. We don't think this is clear enough. Since the need for a state is something that is too large or too radical, we think that in such circumstances a war or emergency would already be declared. You don't think about these most radical needs of the state. Given that so far, at least the last few times, the elections in Serbia have been called by disbanding parliament, this method has been applied, we think that this is one provision that is not clear enough and leaves room perhaps for some abuses, so we suggest that it be deleted. We think that these definitions are sufficient, in Article 54, in which cases the Assembly does so when it is dissolved and cover all possibilities and needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35743	Thank you. The 55th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 55. The proposing representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. This amendment was adopted by the proposer, Mrs Nada Kolundji, as well as by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic withdrew the amendment to Article 60 at a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration. The civil protection officer at the meeting of the Justice and Administration Committee withdrew the amendment, too, to Article 60. The Board of Justice and Administration shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure have submitted an amendment to Article 60. The proposing representative, Mrs. Hope Kolundji, accepted the amendment. The citizens' protector submitted an amendment proposing that a new member be added after article 60. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. Mr. Andric wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35744	Thank you. In our opinion, the 61st member who defines the international co-operation of the Serbian Parliament in this form is unambitious and is somehow routine, without any content. What we are proposing is that, after the existing position, Article 3, which says that special co-operation is achieved with the European Parliament and other EU bodies, in order to adapt the legal and political system of the Republic of Serbia more effectively to the legal assets of the EU and to move faster into its full membership. We assume that this member's wish was to remain too principled to avoid any more concrete debate in the Assembly. We think that the Serbian Parliament will have to take into account, especially if it is given that we are a country that has submitted to EU membership, that more and more laws will have to highlight the specific role or relationship of the EU and Serbia. In our opinion, it's nothing wrong. With the emphasis on membership, we have made clear our intention to delegate part of our sovereignty to the EU and to accept various EU institutions, both legal and political. In this regard, we think it is important that this wish, which has been shown for the first time in formal terms through the lecture of candidacy, be pointed out also in the Law on the Assembly, as the Serbian Assembly has for many years already had the Committee on European Integration, a special committee that deals with European integration only, so we think that it is also in international co-operation, given our political desire to be part of a larger entity, we must stress the EU's doubts, which exist, in international co-operation, and also give a certain priority at the moment in which we are going through the process of European integration and co-operation with the EU. In our opinion, this is perfectly normal, given the desire, at least publicly expressed, which exists in the process of European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35745	The 6rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Vočeta Toskovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35746	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has proposed in Article 66 paragraph 3 that the word "president" be deleted for a simple reason that the government cannot concentrate on the institution. Here in your proposal for a law is spoken in the position of the 1st position – 'The National Assembly shall establish and make available the resources for the work of the National Assembly (hereinafter referred to as the Assembly Budget). "In Article 2" -- "The general budget is an integral part of the budget of the Republic of Serbia". Paragraph 3 states: "The government cannot suspend, postpone or restrict the implementation of the assembly budget without the consent of the National Assembly president. It should not concentrate the power of the president's institution, but, as the National Assembly brings the budget, so it should have the budget of the National Assembly itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35747	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35748	Thank you. Article 77 The bill says: "Acts governing the organisation and work of the National Assembly Service, the internal organisation and the systematicisation of the jobs of the National Assembly Service will be carried out within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. 'According to us, a six-month deadline is absolutely inappropriate. He's in a coalition with at least two things. First, the reasons for adopting an emergency procedure that says: "The adoption of this law by emergency procedure provides normative assumptions for the alignment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the adoption of other acts provided for by this law, which enables the smooth functioning and work of the National Assembly. ''The problem is in this last part – ''which enables the smooth functioning and work of the National Assembly'. If you feel that this law will be passed to ensure that the work of the National Assembly is smooth, then we are absolutely right when we say that this Assembly now acts exactly the opposite of uninterrupted functioning. An adequate term for 'non-monetary', or the opposite name for 'non-monetary', say which one is you. You have linguists, so tell me who it is. These are just some declarative reasons and they really have nothing to do with the truth. What is it, what is it about the internal organisation and the systematization of jobs, as well as the organisation and work of services, and what does it take six months to do here? I said here a few days ago that it's true that it's better three hours too soon than a minute too late, but compared to this law, I don't think that's true at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-26-0.u35749	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 78th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 80. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was otherwise accepted by a representative of the Proposer. Since we have completed the draft law in particular, does the MP's representative, Mrs. Nada Kolundzia, want to finish the word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, I would like to inform you that on 26 February 2010, therefore, today, at 14. 30 hours to vote on this law. So let's rest for about 20 minutes and please take part in the vote. It's voting day, I repeat, February 26th, 2010, Friday, at 2.30 p.m. [[After break – 14.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the unit of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 138 MPs are present in the hall, so we have the conditions to decide. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the National Assembly in principle. Of the 147 MPs, 127 voted – yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. The Justice and Administration Committee withdrew the amendment to Article 16 which submitted on 23 February 2010. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, at a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, withdrew the amendment to Article 60. The citizen's protector, at the meeting of the Justice and Administration Committee, also withdrew the amendment to Article 60. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected as incomplete amendments: Mr Zlata Djeric, MP of the People's Parliament, member of the 52nd and MP, Milorad Buha, as member of 62, and as an untimely amendment of MP Zoran Antic to Article 78. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Please plead. Of the 145 MPs, 16. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please plead. Of the 145 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please plead. Of the 147 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please plead. Of the 147 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the promoter, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Therefore, the proposing representative accepted this amendment. Of the 148 MPs, 133 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Please plead. Of the 148 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 148 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please plead. Of the 148 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. A representative of the Proposer, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please plead. Of the 148 MPs, 115 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Please plead. Of the 148 MPs, 13. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 20 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 17. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 17. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 23 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. A representative of the promoter, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 123 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 16. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 17. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. The Board of Justice and Administration shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure have submitted an amendment to Article 16. The proposing representative, Mrs. Kolundjia, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 149 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 16. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, MP Sreto Peric and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 148 MPs, 16. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Please plead. Of the 148 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please plead. Of the 148 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 13. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic, MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic and the Committee for Justice and Administration. Proposer representative, National MP Nada Kolundzija, and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment of MP Milisav Petronijevic and together with the MPs of the people Cedomir Jovanovic, Judite Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposing representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, accepted the amendment of the Committee on Justice and Administration. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 137 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Milorad Krstin submitted an amendment to Article 19. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted the 20th amendment. A representative of the promoter, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 118 were declared to be the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 18 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please state from 149 MPs, the vote was 16. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 24. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, seven were declared for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted the title above Articles 26 and 26 of the amendment. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 11. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 22 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please state from 149 MPs, the vote was 13. The amendment was not accepted. The Board of Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 27. The proposing representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 149 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. A representative of the promoter, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. (Signalisation is wrong. We will again declare Mr. Peric's amendment to Article 27.) Of the 149 MPs, 136 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 149 MPs, 50 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 149 MPs, two were declared for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 16. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 17. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Mijovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Nenad Prokic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the amendment together. Proposer representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, during a review of the Bill's proposal in particular, accepted this amendment. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 143 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 37. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 17. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 8. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Mijovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Nenad Prokic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 22 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 39th amendment. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 11 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 39th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 16. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Mijovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Nenad Prokic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm asking you to make a statement. We're voting. Of the 149 MPs, 22 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The Committee on Justice has submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The proposing representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The proposing representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, and the Committee on Justice and Administration, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. The MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 44th Amendment. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 8. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, two voted for. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Mijovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Nenad Prokic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the amendment together. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 22 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 47th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and MP Zoran Krasic. Proposer representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, during a review of the Bill's proposal in particular, accepted this amendment. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 114 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please plead. Of the 147 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 51a be added after article 51a. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Mijovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Nenad Prokic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the amendment together. Please let us vote. Of the 146 MPs, 18 were voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 55th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 55th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please state from 146 MPs, 116 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The Board of Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 55. The proposing representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, accepted the amendment. Please state from 147 MPs, 121 MPs voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 56th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please plead. Of the 147 MPs, 11 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 56th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please state the amendment accepted by the proposing representative. Of the 147 MPs, 134 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The Board of Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 60. The proposing representative, Mrs. Hope Kolundji, accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 147 MPs, 120 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The citizens' protector submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 60a be added after Article 60a. Please plead. Of the 147 MPs, 15 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 61st amendment. Please plead. Of the 148 MPs, 19 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please plead. Of the 147 MPs, 11 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 66th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 145 MPs, 16 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 70th amendment. Please plead. Of the 144 MPs, 16 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 73. Please plead. Of the 144 MPs, eight MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 73rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Mico Rogovic. Please plead. Of the 144 MPs, 16 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please plead. Of the 144 MPs, 15 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 76. Please plead. Of the 144 MPs, 14 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 77th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please plead. Of the 144 MPs, 16 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 78th Amendment. Please plead. Of the 144 MPs, 16 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 80th Amendment. Please plead. Of the 144 MPs, 15 MPs voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Board of Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 80. In Article 80, the words "eighth day" are replaced by the words "the next day". I remind you that this amendment provides for the law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the amendments, the Proposer stated that it was proposed that the law enters into force before the eighth day of publication, given that it is necessary to access as soon as possible how to comply with the provisions of the law and the adoption of the acts necessary for its application. A shorter deadline for entry into force of the law will also allow for the application of the provisions of the Law to work of the National Assembly already at the first regular meeting of the National Assembly. In view of the above, I note that by deciding on this amendment, the National Assembly will at the same time determine whether there are particularly reasonable reasons for the early entry into force of this law. The proposing representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, accepted the amendment. Of the 144 MPs, 124 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment and that we have thus found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the early entry into force of this law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft bill on the National Assembly in general. Of the 144 MPs, 127 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the single agenda item of this session and of the decision on this agenda, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Thank you for your cooperation.
