ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44126	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 84 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the National Assembly on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that the President, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right under Article 1st of the 286 at a session of the National Assembly orally in a single address for up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask the MPs, or the presidents and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, if anyone wants to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44127	I have a question for the President of the Assembly. Yesterday we saw on TV that the president of the assembly admitted some kind of phantom debt that the Assembly allegedly has toward RTS. What we are interested in is, first of all, what kind of contractual obligation does the Assembly have toward RTS and on whose behalf did the Assembly sign this contract, or who signed such a contract on behalf of the Assembly? Please give us a copy of that contract from which the following debts are delivered to all MP groups, so that we know what this is all about. On the other hand, no one was familiar with the heads of parliament that there was some kind of contractual debt to RTS. I have to say that this debt, first of all, and if there is such a formal obligation, which I doubt, is illegal because it is the basic idea of the Public Service to fund it from a TV subscription, to be independent from the executive authority. This is now bareing things to the end. We have previously warned you that with your negligence or desire, we do not enter it, Aleksandar Tijanic will for the third time be appointed director of RTS, so that he will then be blackmailed by his famous manner, which I consider to be arrogant and threatening, by the Assembly, i.e. The government is asking for money for its more than bad business over the next six years. We have to call things a real name here. We ask you, from whom will you take three million and give Alexander Tijanic? Will you take from the soup kitchens, from some strikers, from schools, from kindergartens? From whom will you take three million and give Alexander Tianic? Or, in the other option, which is less bad, does that mean this country will be in charge? So now we're going to be in charge so we can cover the losses of Aleksandar Tianic. This assembly has nothing to do with the fact that there are 700 people in RTS who receive a salary of less than 30,000 dinars. It is scary and it is on the verge of poverty, but is it the Parliament's fault or is it the man who's been running that company for the past six years? Where does the face of us accusing ourselves of being responsible for such a loss, not the man who has all the authority in that house? Furthermore, if the ministers were subject to the work of the state auditor, we are asking you most seriously to have the state auditor refer to RTS and examine the business of RTS, to examine whether there is a pay gap, whether and who receives below 30,000 dinars, does anyone receive 400,000, 500 thousand, 800 thousand dinars per month, and why, on the basis of what agreement or contract? I have to point out to you the most serious consequence you'll all probably have, since there's no reaction to what happened yesterday. You're funding RTS from the budget for the first time in a long time. From our corner, and believe me, I'm right, you pay to cover up your incompetence, you pay for the RTS news to be painted again like the '90s. The basic idea of independence is that the government doesn't pay RTS, that it couldn't blackmail RTS about reporting, this was annulled today, on the October 5th 10th anniversary of which many swear today. We tell you, incompetence must be punished where it exists. In this case, she's more than clear. It's about the incompetence of the Director General, whom you elected as the ruling majority only two months ago, to expect us to believe in the play that happened yesterday. The whole town was saying that his condition was to work for you to get a million and a half euros by the end of the year. What did you do? You decided to humiliate the congregation by allegedly debting something. Why since 2006? Was it the Assembly in 2005? Have the parliament sessions been transferred, or has a contract been signed in 2006 on the basis of which we should pay our dues? Should every messenger now take out of his pocket, according to how much he will speak, and separate the money and give it to Alexander Tianic so that he may pay who knows what? Look at the RTS program. Every day on the first channel of replay at 11.00 p.m., replay at 12.35 p.m., replay at 1:30 p.m., replay at 16.00 p.m. From 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. are reruns. What is this money being spent on? What's the money for anyone who pays a subscription to RTS?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44128	It's been five minutes. Thank you. National MP Slobodan Samardzic is authorised as representative of the DSS parliamentary group and has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44129	Dear People's MPs, chairman of the assembly, have been told for days from the Serbian media that talks between Belgrade and Pristina on the development of good neighbourly relations between Serbia and Kosovo are being prepared. So since 9 October, we have some kind of psychological preparation for such conversations, but the Assembly is silent about it. The talks were actually scheduled after 9 September, as is known, when the General Assembly adopted the EU Resolution on the situation in Kosovo, on Serbia-Kosovo's relations and opened the so-called "Second Kosovo". The process of dialogue, therefore, when Serbia withdrew its motion for a resolution and allowed the EU to do so. Now things are going pretty fast. The public finds out something through the media, the question is how true it is. In any case, it is necessary for the Assembly to be informed of what is happening on that front. When talks were opened earlier, and negotiations on Kosovo's status were better said, the assembly had a major task. At each stage of these negotiations, it was notified in reports that they were going and having resolutions from time to time, five or six resolutions in two years about what was done and how further steps should be taken. Thus, the congregation was fully involved and engaged in this process. I'm afraid that's not the case today. The point is so much more important that the opening of these talks is from the EU's point of view that at the end of October the Council of Ministers would approve the Commission to take over our proposal for EU candidacy. It is evident that the EU, seeing that Serbia is highly subject to both conditions and blackmail, sets certain conditions on every step of this process. It is obvious that the current condition is the opening of talks on good neighbourly co-operation between Serbia and Kosovo, and they are likely to happen. We see that some NGOs, some centres, and some parties have proposed certain negotiating platforms. We do not ask that the Government now submit to us an immediate platform of its negotiation, although that would not be bad. We ask the Assembly to deliver a resolution on this. It's just that in the last two, two and a half years, we've given up on the Assembly playing any role in this process. That's what the facts are about. From last summer to today, the Assembly held on a proposal from the government only one session on the issue, which was the end of July of this year, when the International Court of Justice's opinion on our issue was to be adopted and when it was to be prepared to continue the process at the General Assembly. So, after two and a half years, and I'm afraid for the last time, I've discussed it. That is why this question and this requirement to make notice first comes from such a bad experience and the need for the congregation to really be involved in this process. I said the thing is so much more serious that European integration depends largely on it, as you know. So there is no written condition for negotiations or talks on Belgrade and Pristina's good neighbourly relations to continue the process, but it is an unwritten condition. Serbia has the biggest problem in European integrations, not with written, declared conditions that we all know, and we all think we must meet them, but with unwritten and undeclared conditions or blackmails. It's about time the Assembly got involved. I said it might be impossible at this point to demand a government platform, because it prepares itself in one legitimate discretion, in one way that the public doesn't have to know exactly how it happens in the first steps. It is necessary that the Assembly adopts a resolution on this matter. So, the question is whether someone in the government, and for that, is in charge of the Foreign Ministry, is thinking about before this assembly that the motion for a resolution and that the question of such an important thing is being opened here and that it is going in a legal and legitimate way. That's the question we're looking for at the most recent time, and time is running fast.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44130	The word has an MP, Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44131	I'd like to ask a question that's been raised recently. I received a neat invitation from the Holy Synod of the Serbian Orthodox Church to visit the Pećko Patriarchy at the time of the entanglement of Patriarch Irine. That's what I regularly responded to and went to the oven. At the border of the administrative office, as you call it, Eulex examined the paperwork and released it and said that everything was fine and that I could go to the oven. I went through southern Mitrovica and headed for the oven. On the main road to Peca, a column was stopped, and a barricade was made, and they examined all the vehicles and looked for me and pulled me out of a column with two friends, took all the documents and arrested me, brought us in. Instead of turning us back, getting us back if it wasn't right, they took us to Pristina. They brought us to the police, and I think the Director of Police was some high-ranking police officer who ordered us to banish ourselves and return to the Merdare crossing, and we can't go back to Leposavić. However, the Eulex that came was not up for it, because there are conditions here for which some citizen will be deported from a certain territory of the state. None of these conditions were met, because we had everything they asked for, and Eulex wouldn't sign the record and their representative approved us to go to Pec and told us he'd give us a vehicle to drive us personally and refused to sign it. However, Kosovo police and the senior police officer have told me that they have excellent ties with Belgrade, that they are in contact with the leadership daily and they said, here is the phone of the president's office, call, if they withdraw the ban, you can go without a problem. Of course, I didn't want to call, and then they deported me with an explanation, a decision by the Kosovo police that made me step away from the territory of the Republic of Kosovo, because Belgrade didn't give me the green light to enter. Therefore, they also said they had no objection, and a similar situation was experienced by Mr Nikolic, but he at the border crossing. I have a document and I'll attach it to you. Please give me an answer to the question, did the President of the Republic of Serbia's cabinet make a list of undesirables? Did he give a warrant to the Kosovo police, and what does it say here? If Eulex accepted and said he would not sign and that everything was right and allowed me to enter, why did the Kosovo police send me back because of good relations with Belgrade and say they have long-term ones? Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do anything to protect its citizens? Is the recognised republic of Kosovo under the grain of Serbia's current leadership, whether it is hidden from Serbian citizens or not? Is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia respected? Could a national MP and a citizen who went to his religious ceremony as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, along with an orderly invitation from the Holy Synod of the Serbian Orthodox Church, move freely in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? What's the truth about this and who's responsible? The documents exist, and they've even given me a deadline for appeal for eight days, Kosovo police. Could I, as a citizen, experience being driven all morning by Kosovo, taking me to Pristina, taking me to Podujevo, leaving me on the street among 500 Shiparas there and getting me there, whistles, etc., to leave me on purpose on the street, and they retreat to consult. What are Belgrade and Pristina's relations now? Who's been doing all this? Does anyone, because if Eulex signed everything neatly...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44132	Five minutes. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, who is an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is very concerned about the health and life of our president in The Hague tribunal because of the frequent arrhythmias, tachycardia and increased blood pressure, which, apparently, according to our knowledge so far, is due to mistreatment in The Hague tribunal. Vojislav Seselj was taken to the hospital on 17 September this year because of these tachycardias, arrhythmias and increased blood pressure, by order of prison doctors in The Hague, where he was given electroconversion in order to treat him, or the method by which in general anesthesia through the patient’s chest can be electrocuted to return to normal, or to normal rhythm. However, this electroconversion was not successful and, according to the doctor, the patient in such a condition is in danger of having a stroke or heart attack. Normally, when we received this information from the Committee for Defence of Vojislav Seselj, we contacted an exceptional expert on cardiologist Dr. Zdravko Mijailovic with VMA. We spoke to him personally because we knew that he had previously been in The Hague by the tribunal and had carried out a review of Vojislav Seselj and had drawn up a professional medical report on 16 October 2009. Cardiological evaluation. Unfortunately, Mr. Mijailovic could not help us, and he wanted to, because he needed the consent of his VMA chief, Miodrag Jevtic. This Mr Jevtic has done extremely unprofessionally, inhumanely and in violation of all regulations and medical ethics, he refused to help Vojislav Seselj or to respond to the request of us from the Committee and for this reason we tried to apply to the Ministry of Defence for his resolution. This Ministry of Defence, which we can freely call the Ministry of Lies, ran with some press release, where Vojislav Seselj was said to have addressed the Ministry in July 2009, or his team, and that, on the basis of this request, Mr Mijailovic was asked to tour and review Vojislav Seselj. Of course, it's an absolute lie. What is interesting, in this ministry of lies, refused to accept a request submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. They said they had some internal act based on which they could not receive submissions for the minister and the ministry. We also spoke to the president of the state who is commander-in-chief of this VMA. The presidency received our request, and since we failed at the Ministry, we addressed the request of the Prime Minister. What we want to ask now is when will both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister react, or the government, and the competent ministry, because in The Hague is about to kill Vojislav Seselj? If we bear in mind the fact that 16 Serbs were killed directly or indirectly in The Hague tribunal, then our fear is indeed justified, especially because of the fact and the obvious fact that Vojislav Seselj won legally with his brilliant legal knowledge and his vis-à-vis the Hague tribunal, and now they probably don't know how to complete the procedure, and it is simple for them in The Hague to kill Vojislav Seselj. We will not allow this to happen and we will raise up our feet and we have raised the professional public, medical, not only in Serbia, but also in the world, and especially in our brotherly Russia, where it has indeed shown itself, and its experts, and representatives of the duo and all those present at our rally in Sava Centre on 19 September, have shown their willingness to help Vojislav Seselj, and we ask if this regime is preparing to be an accomplice to the murder of Vojislav Seselj?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44134	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic is registered in the electronic system. National MP Ivan Andric has used the right of the parliamentary group to seek information. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) The breach of the Rules of Procedure is not intended for part of the session when we ask a question. (Kadomir Jovanovic, from the place: Okay, I signed up. You'll give me your word when the session begins. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, authorised representative of the ZES parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44135	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as most of my predecessors have said, is today October 5th and I want to ask one question to the government of the Republic of Serbia. How many more people who participated in civil protests during the 1990s are being prosecuted or criminalized? Is there any possibility that, in accordance with the law, these procedures will once and for all end, that we will never again have a situation like with Mr. Bogoljub Arsenijević-Maqui, to be arrested for what most of us have done? Is there a record of these people and does there really need to be 10 years after "October 5" against anyone running that infringement procedure? This morning I promised my colleague Velimir Ilic that I would ask one question – what about the case of the attack on Mr Velimir Ilic in front of his building in Belgrade, and does he really, as he claims, have a police record on the case and can we, as MPs, get an answer, because I really advocate that today, 10 years after "October 5" nobody in Serbia is affected by politics or because of my expressed attitude? I think it's a good idea to know the full truth of every event, even that unkind event.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44136	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Željko Tomic and Milos Aligrudic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of a joint principled review of the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda – the proposal for a law on accreditation and a bill on consumer protection, President of the Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, in addition to the representative of Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services and Tomica Milosavljevic, the Minister of Health, invited the sittings to attend: Ljiljana Stankovic, Assistant Minister of Trade and Services, Dusan Protic, Assistant Minister of Trade and Services, Nebojsa Lazarevic, Assistant Minister of Trade and Services, Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development and Biljana Tomić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Health. We move to the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda: – Proposal for an ACCREDITATION LAW and a PROPOSAL OF THE CONSERVATION OF THE CONSTRUCTION (joint principle search) Before we continue the course of the session where we left off yesterday, 4 October, on the basis of Article 27(2) of Article 87 paragraph 2 of Article 90(2), I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1 p.m., and that the usual one-hour break will be set after the debate is concluded in the joint principle review of the agenda points we are now discussing, and the transition to a common principle search of points that follow the agenda. A notice from RTS. RTS Secretary General Stanislav Veljkovic, by letter dated 4 October 2010, informed the Secretary General of the National Assembly that on Tuesday, 5 October 2010, from 16.50 hours to RTS would not be able to follow the National Assembly's meeting in direct transmission to the Second RTS Programme, and due to previous programme obligations to transfer the match Serbia-Russia to the SP in the men's volleyball in Italy. The recording of the continuation of the National Assembly session on Tuesday (October 5th), will be broadcast from 22:00 hours on the second RTS programme. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44137	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have just given me an argument for a whole series of violations of the Rules of Procedure. I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure in Article 271 and Article 273. As an authorised representative of the RS government, Mr Slobodan Milosavljevic was authorised for this item of the agenda. In addition to a common last name with the Minister of Trade, the health minister has no touch points with this agenda. I suggest you declare a break in accordance with Article 101(2) and allow a normal debate. It's an honor on October 5th, but I think we have the right to have 10 years after the establishment of some democracy, if we have established it that day, we are conducting a normal debate. Definitely Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic is not a talker for this kind of debate. He can only sit there and nothing more than that. Tell me, Mr. Milosavlevich, if I'm wrong. Look at the law. Why should we be so self - humiliated? A lot of questions in that debate could be asked, but we can't answer one of them. What do you have to do with the selection of the Antimonopoly Commission? What do you have to do with the former president of the Antimonopoly Commission who introduced us yesterday to the fact that her children were at risk? How did the RES respond to this? What do you have to do with the milk regulation that orders cows to carry so many liters of milk a day? It's all a paradox. I suggest, Mrs. Comic, we establish an elemental order here. We've been informed by the secretary general of RTS that we'll be in the second plan from 4:00 to 8:00 p.m. until I don't know what, by 10:00 p.m. Is that supposed by a three million-euro contract that you'll pay RTS? When is this obligation to carry volleyball and prolonging RTS transmission agreed? Was it 2006? If you expect us to participate in this debate, then a basic respect. This doesn't make sense. No question Mr. Milosavljevic in this debate can answer. He can sit and watch us. (President: Two minutes. That's not fair. Take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44138	Thank you. There's no damage to article 271. I'll remind you that the bill promoter is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not the Ministry. The government is proposing to Parliament laws and the government is deciding who will represent the government. The government has now violated the Rules of Procedure since we have the Minister of Excess. Formally, all three ministers, i.e. two ministers and a Deputy Prime Minister, appointed by the government to be present at the assembly session on behalf of the government, and I would be pleased to have this session attended by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic and Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic. MP Cedomire Jovanovic, are you not satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44139	Of course not, because you hurt the Rules of Procedure. From what I understand, you always insist on respecting the procedure. It's not a hockey game, Mrs. Comic, that ministers come in and out whenever they think of it. I've given you a very precise warning about the bill. On the first page, which has been forwarded to us, it says that the government's representative is Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, not Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic. You answered that question – it doesn't matter who the government's proposing, anyone can. Of course he can't. If it doesn't matter who's sitting there, then we don't care whether we have a government or not. Stop such a practice of conduct in this House that leads nothing. If we respect ourselves so little, what would anyone respect us for? This is a serious bill. Very serious, with serious anomalies. Yesterday you interrupted the debate in a direct television broadcast and transferred us to the league without worry. I hope that's how much less the price we'll pay RTS illegally.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44140	People's MP, I warn you not to abuse your right to speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure and not to make false statements. I read in the follow-up to the work of this session, and every MP has been informed that the Government for the Bill on Accreditation and Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act has appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mladjan Dinkic, Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services and Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health and I have read the names of associates from the Ministry of Trade and Services, as well as the name of the co-worker from the Ministry of Health and the name of co-workers from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, who have also been called to the Assembly session. We're continuing the session. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Please, just log in to the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44141	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 103 and Article 27, which defines that you who are currently acting as President of the National Assembly are obliged to do so in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. For our sake, basic logic and respect for citizens and MPs, the formal government is a proponent of any law, but that any law can represent and defend anyone that means that we question the Law on Government, the Law on Ministries and the jurisdiction of each individual ministry in terms of the adoption of laws, proposals and control of its application. Just for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44142	Please don't throw away an explanation, since it's an obligation from Article 103 that you quoted and on the basis of which you received your word. Laws in the National Assembly are not represented by anyone but by a member of the government. Each minister is a member of the Government, and I warn you not to abuse the right that the Rules of Procedure assures you to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because in the contents of your reasoning there is nothing to be said about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but your position on how it should not appear that this Rules of Procedure is not what it is, but it is. National MP Vlajko Senic remained on request to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to take advantage of their right to the session? National MP Cedomir Jovanovic again wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44143	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, fellow Members, we have a very important law today. We also think that it is very important for society, not only because it regulates the area of consumer rights and obligations of those who offer services, but primarily because of the fact that we are talking here about solving problems that point to the degree of freedom that exists in our society, because only after we feel freedom then we can define on these grounds certain rights and obligations. That's why we're very disappointed with the fact that the government has done everything to try to format this freedom in such a way that, in fact, to those who need that freedom, it is not available. I'm interested, Mr. Milosavljevic, why do citizens not have the same rights when using local grocery services and using services of general economic interest? We are interested, Mr Milosavljevic, in how do you lead us to Europe and how will we reach it in 2015 or 2016 if you consciously ignore a European directive that further strengthens consumer positions and protects their rights, for example in the area of credit consumption? You said yesterday during the debate that it was a request from the National Bank, so what? Because it's the National Bank that needs to be a guarantee of freedom for this society, or is it this Assembly? In 2005...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44144	People's MP, I'm forced to interrupt you, because you've received your word by, apparently misjudged that you're looking for a word to speak of injury to the Rules of Procedure. Now it's exactly two minutes as much as you'd normally spend on that time. In this part of the session, you cannot speak as the president of the parliamentary group, because the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Zoran Ostojic, has already used his right and used 11 minutes. Your right to a word will be after the debate has been concluded in all the registered speakers, that is, the order in which the parliamentary groups have been reported. My apologies for the practical violation of the Rules of Procedure, since it is very clear in this part of the session. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word. National MP Judita Popovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44145	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly and the Chairman, I would like to advertise the Rules of Procedure and to appeal to Article 103 and Article 32. In accordance with Article 32, I believe that you are replacing the President of the Assembly against this Article, paragraph 32. Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44146	National MPs, article 32, cannot be broken during this part of the session. Thank you. Do any of the presidents or authorized representatives want a word? National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44147	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103(4), and as regards Article 107. As chairman, you are injuring the dignity of the National Assembly, which I point to in accordance with Article 103(4), indicating what this injury is. By putting the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly and your right to include tones, microphones, in front of the Law on Government, the Law on Ministrys where jurisdiction is determined, convincing us that this is less important than who is present as any member of the Government, you are in violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, injure the elementary logic of us who are protesting it, and also by telling me that I can't throw it away, and I'm just saying that I don't need an explanation, because it's unexplainable to justify it. You have damaged the double dignity of the Assembly. I do not want the Assembly to declare this, because 126 hands are possible and, regularly, it does, cancels even the elemental logic, but also the Constitution and the law. I just want this heard by the time you turn off my microphone and this current Rules of Procedure gives me the right to say it. I really don't need you to explain what you're not capable of.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44148	None of the quoted members were injured. Like any other chairman, I'm obliged to give an explanation. The MP has the free will not to be satisfied with the explanation and it is so clearly written in the members of the Rules of Procedure who treat the word for breach of the Rules of Procedure that there really is no room for interpretation. National MP Judita Popovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44149	Unfortunately, I would really like to quote you Article 103(1). A Rules of Procedure that says, "The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly." So, an injury to the president's behaviour. I don't think you're in accordance with Article 32(2). Rules of Procedure, orderly authority...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44150	People's MPs, article 32, can't be hurt. I ask you to read and I warn you to abuse the right to receive a word based on Article 103. National MP Zoran Ostojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44151	Mrs. Komic, you have already violated the Rules of Procedure, article 107 – the dignity of the Assembly. Vice President, you can't turn off a microphone like that until it's said what it's about. Mrs. Judita Popovic asks if you have written authority? That's what the Rules of Procedure regulates. Show him and then run this session according to the Rules of Procedure. If you don't have written authority... You know we've passed the Mobing Act. [[off microphone]] This is a mobing. You're our employer. This applies to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44152	People's MP, I remind you that the Rules of Procedure prohibit the repeated violation of the Rules of Procedure which was once said. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44153	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I will begin with the remarks of the President of the Assembly and the Parliament Presidency on yesterday's day. We started three points yesterday, a very important part of the agenda. None of the MPs, at least our MP group knew what would be discussed at yesterday's session. MPs are obliged to prepare and prepare, especially those who exhibit, to prepare an adequate speech and to have adequate literature, with all proposals of the law, sublegal acts, etc. We are unable to find out which item of the agenda will be discussed at that session. It was the first day of work. The agenda is kept in top secret. It seems to be the best kept state secret, which will be considered at the assembly session, which is absurd. MPs are obliged to carry dozens and hundreds, even thousands of billing lists, bill proposals, sublegal acts and other materials. About a dozen pounds of material to bring here, just because we don't know what's going to be discussed. Who cares if we pull this thing, and we don't know if it's gonna be. In particular, I was in *Prelication yesterday, preparing for these two points of the agenda, however, I did not expect this to be discussed. Fortunately, I wasn't called here yesterday to speak so I could prepare myself with all these materials. If I was talking, I certainly wouldn't have this argument that I'm going to have today. Why are you letting yourself do this? The president of the assembly didn't open this session today. She left yesterday on several occasions, etc. I understand all the obligations, but why do you keep the agenda as the strictest state secret? It is quite appropriate, the President of the Assembly, Secretary-General of the Assembly, says before opening a regular session – we will consider these points, what has arrived, what you have agreed in the presidency to consider. This is how we are in the inability, MPs, to prepare ourselves. Two months without the Assembly and then suddenly three points of the agenda, very important, very sensitive, very important to the citizens, very important to the whole society, you do it in a dozen hours of work. MPs were normally not expected to consider the second and third points that are now connected to another, etc. It is a principled objection by the SRS and I assume all other MPs. Don't do it in the future, don't hide the agenda, there's no reason. Announce it as transparently as it is normal in a civilized world, so that we know what will be discussed. These two points of the agenda that are connected to one, are only partly connected, but are as significant as one and the other. The latter, related to the Consumer Protection Law, is very important from the aspect of every citizen in the Republic of Serbia. I will start with the country's normative activity and point out the basic problems in the application of the law adopted in this assembly in 2005, which concerns consumer protection law. That law was passed five years ago. The competent ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, has made efforts to develop a certain sub-legal regulation, which is the National Strategy for the Development of Trade of 2009, then the National Consumer Protection Programme of 2007, which refers to the medium term of 2007-2012. At the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, the Consumer Protection and Consumer Protection Centre has been established with direct consumer communication. But what is the basic essence, what is the basic problem with this law, that is, with this matter? The problem is, we haven't practically brought down the law or the sublaws. You admit it yourself because in certain materials, in certain discussions that you conducted in the back public debate, and you said that there is no case law, if there is no case law, the state did not work. In particular, your ministry didn't work in this area. Who has the task of protecting the consumer? State. It is an imperative order of the Constitution, which said in Article 90 -- the Republic of Serbia protects consumers. Specially prohibited actions are directed against health, safety, consumer privacy, as well as any dishonest activities on the market. When I came to the conclusion that the state did not protect the consumer, I had in mind the legal obligations arising from this law of sublegal acts, national strategies and other legislation which require that the consumer be protected. Why are you passing this law? You have a law that in a public-law sense constructed consumer protection. In what way? There is a ministry's jurisdiction in terms of protection, there are protection inspection services, there are other state bodies that are obliged to protect consumers, but the fact is that we do not protect consumers. You, on behalf of the government, on behalf of the Ministry, have not made an effort to protect the consumer. The minister, before proposing this law, had to make an analysis and say what the problems were in this area. Millions of problems, millions of dissatisfied consumers, in all areas, and in the fields of production, transport, distribution of goods and services. You're aware of all that. When you're asked why the services don't work, why the inspections don't work, then you come out with certain data that shows the inspections are working, and when you file a report on the ministry's work, then you say, the competent inspection has carried out so much and so much control, so many applications have been filed, so much property benefit taken away in that amount and so on, and so on, but it's all empty. Why? Because consumers are not protected, traders are protected, monopolies are protected. With your dissatisfaction, because if the inspections were working, if the state were protecting the consumer, then there would be no monopoly position, then there would be no privileged status of traders. If we see the situation and look at the situation in the area of trade, then we see that all social enterprises in the area of trade are privatized. In what way? One piece was thrown into bankruptcy, one part was sold to, but to whom? Trade chains. Which one? Slovenia, Croatia. Slovenian companies trade and Croatian rule our market, behind them is the German and Austrian capital that is invested in these chains to win this as their basis for the development of trade. You are aware of this, citizens are aware of this, but it is a sad fact that the state has no control over consumer protection. You don't do anything to get in those chains, you can't get in those chains. If I'm wrong, go out with the data and tell me how much control you've done in those chains, how much control has been determined. There was a picture of a fake on Ju’s tab on the way the meat declaration was faked. What did the inspection do? She came the other day. I'm sorry, it's day three. The other day it was all closed, you couldn't get in. That's the way merchants treat you. What was done there? The one who, if he faked it, should end up in prison. It's against him to file criminal charges and end up in prison. If the man was right, then someone had to answer. Did he answer? It's not. It's just one segment, one picture of our condition in society. Let's move on. You say that the EU has given 2m euros to enter into the innovation of the legal project, the reconstruction of this area, a new law, established new competences, etc. The EU has done so to improve consumer protection. Twom euros are adequate funds to enter this area and to reach an adequate law, apply certain practices, apply comparative legislation and incorporate all this into domestic legislation. The problem is, and that's what you've been listening to, ministers, on many occasions, to individual representatives of the Consumer Protection Association. In total, what I got information about 97 associations was registered in this area. You will now get it after this law, you will follow that analysis, only what you have prescribed by law – 50 consumers, is in colluding with the Law on the Registration of the Association of Citizens, there says – three. How did you propose that? Why did you suggest that? Why is that embedded in this bill of ours? Why did this collapsion happen? That's the question now. The conflict of laws in the area of trade, this law and the law in the area of trade, in the area of prices, in the area of bond relations, in other contracts, in economic law, etc., that is evident. Citizens' associations in consumer protection wanted to show you, and they tried both in writing and verbally and at the Rigid meetings you organised. I'll say what I heard from them, I wasn't there, but I got some information very important, you know very well who it's about, and I'll read here a statement from the president of the largest national consumer association. Your colleague is laughing here, however, it's not funny, because when a man brings certain things to the public he has to answer for it. You didn't deny this. It's about Goran Popovic, president of the National Association. He's a Novosadian, I know that structure, I've tried to prepare myself for this session, and it's not funny. Please, it's not funny. A man may be unserious, but then you as a ministry must warn him because there are 25-26 associations behind him that work together and who are telling the truth, you are aware of that because they are addressed by damaged customers, damaged consumers who point to problems in the area. That's not funny. People face these problems on a daily basis and try to find a solution. I can't find it with the state authorities, and they're looking for it alternatively with the various institutions that were founded. Why there are 97 or 98 in legal life, maybe over 100 organizations, is probably far more unregistered, just because the problems are in the area. It is your duty, your task, to correct these problems. That all that the consumer considers to be harmful, as unwittingly, what irritates him, you must listen to him and say to him: You are wrong about that and that, or you are right, we will take the law of established measures and file a report against those who have committed a breach of a certain legal rule. To go back to Mr. Popovic. Here, it's 27.9.2010, so it's fresh, published in the press. He is surprised by the speed of passing this law since this law, he says, has been acidified for two years at the ministry. Papovic says: "The only strategy of the Ministry of Trade at the moment is the protection of traders and monopolies, not consumers. "You must answer to him by the minister is under obligation, now in this main debate, and in particular, to prove what the ministry's strategy is. Is the strategy to protect traders and monopolies or is the real protection of the Ministry's strategies really consumer protection? As for the public debate, Mr. Papovic says: "If I were to ask, there was too little public debate for these associations, this government sector would point to basic problems in proposing the law itself. "So, the draft was in the ministry for about two years, and suddenly we made a proposal out of the draft without going to the phase of the proposal for a month to hold several sessions, round tables, where the bill will be discussed. If it surprised him, it surprised everyone, because he's the strongest in the sense of the team he's got behind him. So one-quarter of registered organizations have him. He says the following - it was important for them just to show up two or three organizations that had given her support and to make a picture in public that they had done something about it. This is his statement, while in several media outlets he appeared and pointed to basic problems in this area, rather than today, for at least three or four years he has been working. In order to prepare myself for this session, I consulted my friend Slobodan Vlaisavljevic, who was presented in the area of protection of citizens in the legalisation process and in the process of protecting consumers in public enterprises, public activities and the price of services in the branch. He also pointed out basic problems in communication with the ministry and pointed to a problem with the bill's proposal. The bill is high, no one knew about it except the Ministry and the people for the ZAM program. I'll talk about it later. Mr. Vlaisavljevic says this, he wrote me remarks and I will be here in view of the time, only the basic, the status of consumers, and the organisations that are in this area. You said in this bill that these consumer organisations, registered organisations, could be financed from the RS budget. What kind of organizations are they going to be, and what are they going to finance? Is this some kind of programme from Europe, and will those funds come back? Let me just point out to the public the basic problems of funding projects by the European Commission and European institutions. Those resources that are coming, we know what our practice is. The funds that are received enter the RS financial system and much of these funds return. In what way? Advisory services, management services, design of specific projects, etc. Minister, you must tell the public how many out of the two million have returned to the EU, or officials, to the people who have left the system, who have come here into the system, picked up the money and the funds have returned. These funds that have come from the EU are the state resources of the RS and you all have to dispose of them in the way you have every dinar that comes from the RS budget. Until you answer this question, all this other stuff you suggested, it's all hollow.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44154	Now, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Free Maras has come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44155	Dear Representatives, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary General of the Assembly, I don't know why they were printed and distributed to the MPs, and I point to Rule 27, respect for the Rules of Procedure by the President of the Assembly, and regarding Article 96. When it speaks of the time and moment when the head of the parliamentary group or authorised in the parliamentary group can speak, it is said this way: "The president, or representative of the parliamentary group, has the right to speak for 20 minutes, with that time being able to divide into two parts". So, point doesn't even say when. We don't do business here under ordinary law, we do things by the Rules of Procedure. Let's respect the Rules of Procedure. So, the vice president of the assembly Gordana Comic rudely violated the Rules of Procedure when the president of the LDP, the president of the parliamentary club, broke up and told him that he could not speak now, but that he could speak in the end. It doesn't say anything about being able to speak in the end. If you have changed the Rules of Procedure and if all of us need time to adjust to which member, some of the provisions have not been changed in that Rules of Procedure. We can't do it by ordinary law, we're a party that insists all the time that rules are followed and rules are made that we all have to play the same. I don't see the reason for this arrogant behavior, for taking away words at the moment when the president of the LDP began to address himself as president of the parliamentary group. Once again, he can speak for 20 minutes, with time being able to divide into two parts. Whether it's going to be like the first or fifth speaker, it doesn't say. How time will divide, it doesn't say. I ask you to admit the mistake and ask that in the election day the Assembly declare whether a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44156	So, of course the Rules of Procedure are not violated, because this provision has not been changed in relation to the old Rules of Procedure. So it remained the same and only changed, the practice was changed, so the speaker did not interrupt the speaker in the tenth minute of exposure as the authorised representative or president of the parliamentary group, to warn him of the possibility of using another ten minutes. Therefore, the strict interpretation of the Rules of Procedure limits it to a double division. I agree with Mrs. Radet, it was according to the old Rules of Procedure twice in ten minutes. We changed that because good practice has shown that someone needs to be better expressed in the first part of five minutes, and in the end 15 is less important. The point isn't behind the last words of your quote, it's the point and the point, that's the second thing. The third thing, the course of the session by logic of things doesn't allow any bounce from the moment it starts to flow. So we have a order that is very clear by Article 96 and that says how the course of the session goes and who and when can seek and receive a word. The exception is only in position 2 which speaks of the president and members of the government. So he's an exception from the course of the session and we can't influence when they're going to ask for a word and we're giving it a word right now. Of course it means that the president or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group can't get a word when he thinks of it, because it would absolutely be against any procedure and, in my opinion, as a lawyer, and a healthy legal logic. (Free Marash: In what article does it say? ) As so far, the president or representative of the parliamentary group has the right to use his exposure in two parts, without identity at the time of the duration, at a time when the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups speak. So it can be either at the beginning or at the end, but it can't be in the middle. Since you are otherwise not satisfied with this explanation, the Assembly will make a statement on this in the voting day. The word is Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44157	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, also appear after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Unlike my colleague Marash, I'm not asking you to admit a mistake, I insist you admit a mistake. I would like to point out that it is necessary to respect authority in this House as well. Otherwise, it's my job to interpret the law. Not only is article 107 injured and a member of 96 and a dozen other members injured, I won't list them. Dear Mr. Chairman, one is a good practice, and the other is a strict application of the rules contained in this Rules of Procedure, and the norm in Rule 96 is quite clear. If you have not defined in the Rules of Procedure when the heads of Parliament will speak, that is the problem of those who wrote and brought such a Rules of Procedure, but that Rules of Procedure has been brought in, it exists and we are obliged to act on it. Accordingly, anyone chairing the National Assembly session should know that the chairman can also harm a member of 107, or the dignity of the National Assembly, and should also be informed of the position of the vice president, or vice president of the National Assembly, which is the position of the head of the parliamentary group. The flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure is a flagrant violation of the law, as the Rules of Procedure is the source of constitutional law. It's also anti-constitutional behavior. That is why I insist that the standards contained in this Rules of Procedure are respected, and that this applies primarily to the chairman and then to all of us present in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44158	I thank you, too, and I completely agree with you. The essence of democracy is respect for procedures, and the issue of interpretation, which you and I are obviously looking at differently, is a question of collokual legal debate and therefore no harm to the Rules of Procedure. I only point to the obligation of all MPs when they receive a word under Rule 103 that they are obliged to refer to a provision which they consider to have been violated by the Rules of Procedure and that they cannot point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure which it has already been mentioned. The word is Zoran Ostojić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44159	Yes, Mr. Novakovic, the very fact that you are now running the Assembly, and that Mrs. Komic has left, proves that the attempt to refer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure by Mrs. Judita Popovic is rudely interrupted by shutting down the microphone, and I hope that you will not turn off my microphone but rather let me, according to the Rules of Procedure, the time I have to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then bring a court. We're telling you again, it doesn't say anywhere that the head of a parliamentary group or an authorised representative, if he shares time, has to speak only in the front or back, can speak twice in the session when the heads of the parliamentary groups speak. Jovanovic reported in part of the session when the bosses spoke. The heads of parliament or authorised representatives are still speaking. Last night I used ten minutes, he wanted another ten minutes. The lady who sat in that place said he had to end up. It doesn't say anywhere, that it has to either at the end or at the beginning. That's what we're asking for to vote on. Secondly, she led the session of a lady who no longer leads, without authority. The Rules of Procedure say that if the President of the Assembly leaves and gives someone away, he must give them written authority. She doesn't have it. If the President of the Assembly gets up and doesn't give anyone written authority, then from you, the vice president, he leads the oldest, and that's you, Mr. Novakovic. That's why you're having a session now, because she didn't have the authority, and she wouldn't let Mrs. Judith Popovic use her business hours to point out, because she was aware she was wrong and she turned off the microphone. Is that a mobing, Mr. Novakovic, if we turn off the microphone? We have a right to a certain time, let us finish, then punish us. Mr. Buha also pointed out something that is a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure and Democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44160	Two minutes. Thank you. The explanation I gave Mr. Marsh is identical to you. As for the power to chair or replace the President of the Assembly, you are absolutely right, only it relates to the prevention or inability of the president to perform his or her duty or to her absence. Of course, it doesn't say "from the ground," for example. So, since the president is 50 meters from here or 30, I can't tell, there's absolutely no reason or need to text and make a theater that doesn't belong in this house. So, otherwise we'll vote on the first part. Do you want to make your remarks about the Assembly vote or are you satisfied with what I've told you? (Zoran Ostojić: I want him to vote. ) The assembly will declare in the voting day whether I hurt the Rules of Procedure, according to remarks made by MP Zoran Ostojic. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe this is a classic example of a violation of the Parliament's dignity and I refer to Article 107. Rules of Procedure, Rule 103 and Article 32. I remind you that any violation of any provision of this Rules of Procedure is considered a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So any provision can be incorrectly applied and, in that case, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In this particular case, the person who chaired it did so without the official written authority provided for in Article 32, and you interpret it however you wish. There was no written authority, and it was supposed to be. So, it's one of the regular procedures foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. The person, who chaired without authority, was unable to chair and replace the speaker of the assembly, gave the floor, then took the floor of one of the MPs, specifically the LDP president and the party's authorised representative, to declare a concrete bill. Therefore, the violation of this many provisions of the Rules of Procedure really violates the dignity of the Assembly and, no matter how you interpret it, I think it is necessary to read the Rules of Procedure and it will be clear to everyone what the injury is. I ask that in the Parliament's voting day, it be declared whether anyone can chair the assembly without being officially authorised by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44162	Madam Vice President, the president has given the explanation twice so far. You are the third MP to point out identical injuries and thus harshly, instead of protecting the Rules of Procedure, acting as Vice-President of the Assembly, on the contrary, you are harshly violating and misusing the right to receive a word under Article 103. I am now very seriously warning you, because I may not be as tolerated as Mrs. Komic, that you are challenging a situation where I am reluctant to participate, which is to apply Article 103, Article 7(3), so I ask you not to do so in the future. I apologize, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the Assembly, is now taking her place, and I welcome you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44163	The word is Mrs Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44164	Madam President, it's a good thing you came at this very critical moment, because you see how angry Mr. Novakovic was, it could have been a lot if you hadn't shown up. We all think he's the oldest, he never gets angry, so tolerant, nice, all nice, when you see, there's almost a fellow Popovic to get hurt. We really wanted all of us to help him interpret Articles 96 and 98, and that's my reason to report, because I think he's a broken member of 98, and in relation to Article 96, when it comes to fellow Milorad Buh, an authorised representative of the SRS on these points of the agenda. In fact, Article 96 regulates the possibility of presenting the president or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group for 20 minutes from two parts. It is wrong to interpret Mrs. Komic and Mr. Novakovic's point of view that someone cannot choose the moment and that there is some order that at the beginning of these agendas representatives, or the presidents of the parliamentary groups, and then finally, as the Rules of Procedure says, but in the last position of Article 96, they can request a word if they were not there in that day, such as the case with Mr. Senic, who has quite legitimately decided to report today when representatives of the parliamentary groups should speak. Now, if we were to interpret this as Mr. Novakovic and Mrs. Komic, we could say – you didn't sign up yesterday, you weren't registered here, like Mr. Buha patiently waiting. Why was the Rules of Procedure broken in Mr. Buha's case? Because the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are not under Article 98 to speak from least to the largest parliamentary group, he is a representative of the parliamentary group. Mr. Buha is here now practically damaged by it. He sat patiently last night, like all SRS MPs, until 2:00 p.m., waiting for his turn, and he didn't have to do that, because he checked in yesterday at 3:00 p.m. after the break to speak. Article 96 is not related at all to Article 98 when it comes to applying for the word of authorised representatives, so they do not have to wait for the order from least to the largest parliamentary group, which we are, even though you stole these 22 mandates from us, but we are still the strongest and we will be. Mr. Buha only used his time today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44165	Has anyone come forward about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44166	Ladies and gentlemen, I had to act as a lawyer, of course based on Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am not going in now, we have heard a lot of comments on whether or not Mr Novakovic was right, and before that, Mrs Comic, whether it can share the time of the authorised representative, time from 20 minutes to 10 minutes, whether it can be divided into 19 plus one or two plus 18, however the authorised representative, or the head of the parliamentary group, and of course we think it is absolutely possible, whether that time will be used at the beginning or at the end, at the beginning or during the debate. Perhaps that's how it should have been done, Mr. Novakovic. I really apologize for talking to my colleague, but he's a lawyer and he still boasted he was a lawyer. I'm really surprised at this interpretation. Madam President of the National Assembly, I ask you to read to the Members of Parliament, the position and point where it says that the authorised representative of the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure may be used in two parts at the beginning and at the end of the debate on a certain item of the agenda. So it's possible that's the way it's supposed to be, it's possible that you imagined it, but we can't think as little Perica, we have to use the Rules of Procedure, which is God's bad, but as bad as it is, we Serbian radicals insist on using it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44167	You're actually asking me to read something Mr. Marash has already read. You've actually read a member who regulates what you're asking me to read. The Belief of Radeta, from the scene, but it doesn't say like this. It's been read. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44168	In accordance with Article 107, I believe that no violation of the Parliament's dignity has been done, but I think that what the honourable Vice President of the Assembly, Mr. Novakovic, has done is a threat. He threatened Vice-President Judit Popovic's Assembly that he was not as soft and gentle as Mrs Comic and would give her a warning, or that he would act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because he believes the Rules of Procedure are being misused. The reason you came here, Madam President, is because you saw what your assistants were doing, or vice presidents of the Parliament that chaired. Mrs. Comic broke the Rules of Procedure first, without authority led him, and worst of all, she committed a severe violation of Article 96. After that, Mr. Novakovic tried to prove us unproven. So nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that you speak at the beginning and at the end, it simply says that you can speak from twice, that you can share your time. I don't know why it's a problem to admit it. We didn't cause a problem when the other day you tried to hold a session at which the government comes and answers questions even though there is no direct TV transmission, so on my warning that there is no direct TV transmission, you ask the Secretary-General – what should we do? That's what the Rules of Procedure says, in Article 215. We didn't cause a problem. I do not think it is the obligation of the Director of Television to inform the Assembly when there will be no transfer, but that it is the obligation of the Assembly to inform the Director of Television that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of that and that Thursday, there will be a direct transfer of that time. Please, this goes all the way to the farce in the last few days, to pawn your authority and respect the Rules of Procedure, which, I agree, has narrowed the rights of the MPs to the maximum.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44169	Let's get back to the subject, Mr. Minister. I'm sorry, Mr. Ostojic's office first. I only ask that on the subject that has already been discussed, about the Rules of Procedure, we do not have any further discussions because we are violating the Rules of Procedure, therefore, so that there is no such subject. By the way, I'm still obliged to say that, of course, I'm in the Assembly building from 10.00 hours ago on other duties in the cabinet and to follow the work. Please, let us all guard the dignity of the assembly. I also ask the MPs to return to the subject. Here you go, sir. I'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44170	I promise, this will be the last one. I'm taking the opportunity to advertise Article 27, and I'm taking the opportunity because you're sitting here because I hope you won't threaten and turn off the microphone. Is there a delegation to the Interparliamentary Commission of the Council of Europe present in Belgrade? Yesterday they asked, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, to see Cedomir Jovanovic. Did we know in the morning that we were going to do these agendas, or consumer protection, this afternoon? No, ma'am. In person, the minister told me, after the meeting of the Committee yesterday at 11:30 p.m., he said, "See you tomorrow, thinking of today." And he thought it would be on the agenda today. And normally it would be today. Erem, rather than deciding to handle it during the afternoon, without transmission, and people who had obligations, as Mr Jovanovic, because it is normal to go to that meeting, did not arrive and be here until 11:30. We continued our work today. It is still part of the session when the heads of parliament and authorised representatives speak. He picks up the word, someone interprets the Rules of Procedure, the lady who was there, says – she can only do it in the end. Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, a lot of ugly things happen in this assembly. You're making the Administrative Board the way you make it, which will fall in every constitutional court, normally, because it's the law. You're degraded by Parliament. You're connecting incompatible points. You've brought a new Rules of Procedure, only most, without consensus. And that's little for you, but now you're making up something that doesn't say. When I say you, I don't mean you personally, but the ruling majority, gentlemen of the DS, once, in that old building, I said that in the government, the most normal look to me is the ministers from the SPS. The lady almost punished me. Thanks for not doing that. But now that I look at who's been running the session for the last hour, I still have to say something I didn't believe 10 years ago that I'm going to think, and now I think, and that's a picture and opportunity for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44171	The word is Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister. It's good to get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44172	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I am waiting for the opportunity to respond to Mr. Buha, but since Mr. Ostojić mentioned me, and Mr. Ostojić is coming out so he won't hear, it is true, I told him yesterday at the Committee session – I'll see you tomorrow. And here, we've seen each other today and I don't see what's problematic and controversial about it. But, returning to the topic, Mr. Buha made one observation through his discussion that really did not stand, and as far as the law is concerned, is not public enough and that after what you said, two years of working on making this law, which is true, he appeared in a strange way in parliament. On 1 September 2009, we also had the first presentation of the Consumer Protection Bill and at that presentation, recorded by the media in Serbia, was the European Consumer Protection Commissioner, Mrs Madlen Kuneva, at the debate, at the presentation, and in the discussion of the law Mr Papovic, also participated in the discussion, in front of the National Consumer Organisation NOPS. He participated in two more sessions on 12 October 2009 in Novi Sad and 25 September 2009 in the Serbian Palace building, the former Federal Executive Council. In doing so, Mr. Zoran Nikolic, the vice president of the NOPS, was a member of the task force for lawmaking and was all the time involved in the whole issue of making, debate and harmonisation of the law, so that this finding that the largest consumer organisation in Serbia, which includes, as you said, 20th and some organisations, was not involved in the development and public debate on the law, really does not stand. Yesterday we also had consultations on the Committee on Trade and Tourism, where Mr Nikolic and the phone were related to Mr Papovic's segment of consumer credit, and they were absolutely from the beginning to today fully involved in the making of the law and we can really talk about many things, but they were not involved and they were not involved in the debate and that the law just appeared – it really does not stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44173	The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44174	The Honorable President, the Honorable Mr. Minister and Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, as to who he looks to and who he likes, I talked about it yesterday. I don't think it's important for the debate and for the quality of this law, but well, today is October 5th, so many things have changed in the meantime, including mutual sympathy and antipathies. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think he's debated enough here and enough is said. I'd like to set my discussion a little differently. I think we talk a lot about the law, and we talk a little bit about citizens who need to be users of a law like this. When we speak and criticize the law, we should always think about what it was like yesterday, what it was like five days ago, and imagine and believe that it would be much better in some future period. So the problem of consumer protection is not something that is resolved by one law or by one legal or sublegal act, it is, above all, a process not only in Serbia but in all developed Western European countries, to whose standards and partnership, I hope, Serbia is pursuing. I want to say that the law, for me personally, has no quality problem, because the EU institutions have given their opinion on the law. As far as I'm aware, our trade minister has also spoken to European Commissioner John Dali, who has also made a very positive opinion and assessed that the law is one of the best in Eastern Europe in the area. For someone who believes that Serbia must be an EU member as soon as possible, there is no need for me to give some kind of supervisory or additional analysis in relation to such opinions. I think the law is a step forward and it is a big step forward in the area of consumer protection. I would remind our citizens and viewers that the consumer protection law is only part of a five- or six-law package that regulates the area of consumer protection, so there is a law on advertising, for example, to uphold the law on competition. So, a whole set of product safety laws, for example, a whole set of laws that may not be directly referred to as consumer protection laws, regulates the area of consumer protection, and I think that, as a state, over the past ten years, we have taken a lot of steps forward. I would also say that it is important for me, and for our parliamentary group, that the spirit of the law that we are implementing, and as we understand it, is one attempt to change consciousness in society. We've always had one relationship where the state is above citizens, where citizens are constantly getting information about the sanctions they face unless they meet some of their obligations. Well, I don't know, if they don't pay for electricity in time, the sanctions are on you, and if they don't pay the info bill in time, the sanctions are like that, and if they don't pay the credit war in time, the sanctions are like that. So there was always an offensive to the citizens and, I would say, a campaign on what consequences they have as citizens, as consumers suffer if they do not meet their obligations. That makes sense. When you buy a service and when you want to do a service, whether you buy it, whether you are flying, whether you are being treated, you are paying directly or indirectly for it. The question is raised, and I think it's the biggest thing about this law, which is your rights as a consumer, as a citizen, when you pay for a particular service or a particular product. I think this law, this debate and the future debate are just entering into the essence of citizens learning their rights, to realize that the state has an obligation to speak about rights, to inform them about their rights and to give them as weaker players on the market to support their rights to choose. It is not logical that individual citizens are better at a market game, on a market ground, than large multinational companies, which are strong financial companies, which have good marketing, which have a good pi-ar, which have a great organisation, but that is why there is a state, therefore there is legislative activity, so there are different consumer organisations, which should defend the interest of citizens. I think by passing a law like this, we're opening up space to talk about, that it's not a unilateral process where you have certain obligations, but to be a process where someone cares about your rights. I think that the adoption of such a law, in addition to fulfilling some of our outlined obligations on the path of European integration, is our interest, and I think that the adoption of this law is the interest of all the serious companies that operate on the Serbian market. I think that those who perform seriously on the market, those who want to stay in Serbia for a long time, those who want to fight for their customers by quality of service and by the right price, will be those who welcome the adoption of such a law and will certainly welcome the regulation of the area of consumer protection. Of course, we will uphold this law. I believe the other MPs in the Republic Assembly will do the same. I think this law is just one point in the process of a difficult job of consumer protection, and I think that this time we started in this area after 2000, we have to continue and we have to constantly pursue new and better solutions. This is what EU countries do, the US does, where the level of consumer protection is highest. We need to use their experience and see what areas in the future are waiting for us as challenges, what areas in the future we need to regulate and how to inform citizens who are their rights. Thinking about it, I have identified four areas for which there can be potential dangers, or through them, there is an opportunity for citizens to be properly informed about their rights and I believe that in the future, we will have much more to do in the field of public education of citizens and some campaigns. Today, I saw an elevator from the Department of Commerce in the paper. Often we can see the lyphlets or actions of the Ministry of Health about what our rights are and what we can ask for and that we should not bow our heads before the service providers, as if what they are giving us, as if we have no right to do so. So, raising that awareness among citizens that they know that what they pay is one of those four points that should be very important in future in some national activity, because it is simply our obligation that as people who represent citizens in the Assembly, you ministers who represent citizens in the government, we protect their common interests. Then the area of protection of identity and privacy. We're one market in development. A lot is unclear in that area. You don't know exactly the limit when you're giving some of your information to a company or some sales place, to which they can be used. I think it's very important that we talk about it in the future and protect citizens from it in the right way. Then the area of advertising, where it's important to have one clear control of what is advertised in what way, is what the right thing is said, first of all from the area, for example, different things that are related to health. I think we've made a huge shift here as a state, but that we're expected by bigger and bigger challenges in the future because it's one market that's very competitive and those who fight on that market who sometimes don't choose the means to get to the end of the consumer. What may be the biggest challenge in the future is the area of high technology, so Internet, telecommunications, direct mail. It is one area where technologies are ahead of legislation and it is not easy to fight the fact that daily communication channels are improved, more unwanted than those desired by end-users, and I assume that there will be constant public campaigns, sublegal acts and similar things to inform our citizens or potential consumers of what is really a violation of their rights and what rights they really have. These are a few things that are our attempt to shed light on this law in a different way than purely legal and bureaucratic. Now I'm going to use this debate of an hour and a half, when he has the right to speak as much as he can, to interrupt in exactly ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44175	We are moving to work on the agenda of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search referred to in points 2 and 3 of the agenda. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44176	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I don't want to talk about sympathy and antipathies, I don't want to talk about October 5th, because I don't think that history is living, history is taught, and everyone needs to learn some lessons and what's positive for him and that October 5th. What I'm saying is that it's really good that after ten years after that October 5, we hear these qualifications when it comes to the SPS. We are talking today about two extremely important legal matters. We have before us a proposal for a consumer protection law. We also have before us a bill on accreditation. As said by the authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary club, the SPS-JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the two legislative proposals. In my presentation today, I will put an accent on one of these two legislative proposals, of course, I am not reducing the importance of the other, but I believe that the authorised representative has talked enough about the second legislative proposal. So, I will put the accent in today's presentation on a proposal for a consumer protection law. First of all, I want to highlight the need for the existence of a quality, one modern, as it is said here among other things, effective legal framework that will regulate this area which is in an extremely dynamic development. That's why we need an orderly and precise manner of conduct. As I said, the SPS-JS parliamentary club in the voting day will support this legislative proposal because, as it is said among other things, it puts the consumer at the heart of the country's economic developments, then introduces key European directives from this area, or a legal framework is being established which, we are convinced, will allow the protection of consumers in Serbia according to European standards. It's about one large legal proposal containing 16 heads, 155 members. It replaces two laws adopted in 2005 that have proved insufficient to address the dangers in practice when it comes to consumers in Serbia and contains, among other things, all 15 of the most important EU directives. Also, when we talk about the reasons for adopting this legislative proposal, I want to say that consumer protection is actually a constitutional category in the Republic of Serbia. What is also important is that this extremely important legislative proposal has passed a broad and high-quality public debate and that, among other things, as we could hear in the opening statement from the Registrar, namely Mr Milosavljevic, the distinguished remarks, suggestions and suggestions that could be heard in the public debate. We really want to believe in the founding of Mr. Minister, that this legislative proposal represents a new phase of building a consumer legal protection system in the Republic of Serbia, namely that this is a turn towards a single European legal framework for consumer protection. Therefore, the aim is to ensure consumer rights in accordance with EU directives. In order to achieve this goal, apart from the quality, applicable, modern, effective legal framework, there is a need for both will and quality co-operation between government and NGOs dealing with this problem. That is why we see another important objective in this legislative proposal, which is to achieve its adoption, which is to strengthen consumer protection organisations. This legislative proposal, among other things, introduces a number of newspapers, i.e. numerous consumer benefits in Serbia – the obligations of the trader and the manufacturer, will be to provide comprehensive information before the conclusion of the contract or the receipt of certain services, notice of all aspects of the job, final prices of goods and services, clearly and clearly printed with the tax included, details of payment, guarantee, delivery deadline, possibility of termination of the contract, possible deposit, etc. I don't want to repeat all the newspapers that have already been spoken of, but the point is that this proposal introduced the paper, to move, in addition to proving, to the consumer, to the one he sold, or produced the goods. Of course, such newspapers certainly eliminate those problems that occurred specifically during this year, and these are about tourist organisations, the problem that existed during this year. It is true that traders must, and it has always been said, that they are much more frequent consumers than traders, and if they are based on this kind of thinking, then I am convinced, with such a quality legislative proposal, that a quality legal framework will be able to make one balance between consumers and traders, so that interests and consumers, on the one hand, and traders, on the other hand, will be satisfied. In addition to a number of newspapers and advantages, which this legislative proposal has adopted and which have been mentioned, we also want to express our dissatisfaction with the works relating to financial services, i.e. regulation of consumer credit, because today we are talking about consumer rights, we are putting consumers at the heart of all economic developments in Serbia. But, it should be said, that, among other things, there is no regulation to date that regulates consumer rights in relation to banks. We want to believe what Mr. Milosavljevic said was agreed with the NBS that the NB would have a special law that would prescribe the obligation for citizens to have visible all elements of the contract before taking credit. What I want to say at the very end is that as a Parliament club, we want to appeal to respect the deadlines that were said here when it comes to the work relating to financial services and consumer protection against consumer credits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44177	I thank and give my word to Parliamentarian Miroslav Markevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44178	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission, what I have on behalf of the New Serbia MPs' club to say about the consumer protection law, I would like to begin and, in a nice way, to give my counterparts a chance for replication. Col. Milicevic, I am interested in what is your degree of dissatisfaction with this law in the part where the rights of citizens who have raised loans are not regulated? Is that just the way it's been said, or are you going to vote for this bill? I think that part that's supposed to be in this law might be the most important part. So, what's your degree of dissatisfaction? That's what you said at the end of your discussion. Are you going to vote for this or not, because I have the impression that this was in the previous draft of the law, and then Mr. Milosavljevic at the NB intervention, listen well – NB, so that NB should have protected the people. I realized that they would further tighten some of the provisions in that law that would protect citizens who had raised their loans. Mr Milosavljevic is, some say, a European minister. In the current conditions for raising various credits, for young couples, for apartments, for citizens, for small consumer loans of a type – you enter, go out and over, and then only starts with most citizens, you have traveled to Europe, Mr Milosavljevic, with such interest that someone on public service, on any television, that such ad, that bank manager would, for example, have been arrested in Germany immediately. I checked, he'd be arrested. It's just amazing that such conditions as Liechtenstein, using economic opportunities and poor material status of citizens and supporting the state... If we take what happened yesterday that Mrs. Bajalovic, it seems to me that she was the chairman of the Competition Commission, I say, it's all leading to consumer protection, she told the public service media last night that she was threatened and threatened with her children. Mr. Milosavljevic, your last chance today is that, as some neighbors here say in neighbouring countries - it is obvious, make it clear. Quiet police, silence the Attorney General, and for some statements in the National Assembly, some MPs who used their parliamentary right within 24 hours, the prosecutor will report, he will take this. We saw what he did because he didn't have anything, no criminal or criminal act, and that's why he didn't do it. I expected the prosecutor, the spokesman, the famous, what's-his-name, Zoric, to react immediately. The woman said it wasn't a direct transmission, that she was threatened with her children. In the same plane, Mr Milosavljevic, a gentleman, it seems to me that his name is Beko, for which this law, and similar to him, is being brought, for which it is being brought to protect consumers, and you have silenced the Minister of Trade, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Then what will the citizens conclude, whose minister you are? Do you actually protect them, given the previous events, attending the opening of some supermarkets without building permits etc? What should citizens deserve, to note, is this law being passed, as this is brought on the budget system because the IMF said, because we have some deadlines and because this is an integral part of some 15 EU directives? Mr. Milicevic, the relationship of banks to citizens, credit users is one of the main directives. This exists in how many European countries to protect citizens from interest rates, from greening, from destruction, because many of our citizens are unfortunately in such a situation that they are forced to take credit under any conditions. Imagine, and I believe that you in Valjev have citizens whose children have to receive a 200-euro injection at some point. The martyr will not see the amount of interest and what, but will raise the child to save him. We are all witnesses, and we all know that well both in our parties and in contact with citizens, that many citizens are in such a difficult economic situation to raise loans that at least a month or two delay some financial collapse, to resolve some issues. Now, in this consumer protection law, that's exactly what we're talking about, and that's what we're talking about -- the NB. I want to say that I may not have been an opposition, most honestly, I might have voted for Mr. Shoskovic, the governor, but this is really a disappointment that I have experienced from him, and I believe a lot of citizens in Serbia, and I really am amazed and I can't believe that instead of making suggestions, suggestions that this law, or in provisions where loan users are protected, is even more stringent, strengthened. This is what it looks like to me that the NB is in the bank service, it's a wave of foreign banks. If I'm well-informed, some data, in all kinds of crisis, the banks in the world are at a loss, only in Serbia are they winning. It seems to me that, I don't know, several hundred million euros or dinars or billions are in profit and gain. Therefore, Mr Milosavljevic, which so far has not been a consumer protection law, and now we see that a law will be passed where they are exempt and they have received immunity. I tell you the most open, let them sue me, and interest when compared to countries where financial systems and financial discipline have been established, not to say in European countries that are our role model, since the European directives are mentioned here, someone who would give a public ad in Germany, Mr Milosavljevic, and you say that I am wrong, with so much interest and these conditions of repaying credit would be immediately arrested and would be on central television as a fraud and a criminal. Here it is possible and perfectly legal, approximately with someone's support, and I doubt it, Mr. Milosavljevic, with whose support. Furthermore, when it comes to consumer protection, Mr Milosavljevic, and the president could say something about it, are citizens who pay TV subscription to consumers? Does the relationship in which the consumer's term occurs mean any voluntary relationship? These citizens have to pay a subscription under the law. So you have to make a statement about it. It's not just about paying for a TV subscription. I'm talking about monopolism, because citizens are practically forced. What is the relationship of the seller, so to speak, the consumer? Here, citizens are forced to pay and they don't even have any, except for all the honors of some exceptions, perhaps I'm immodestly picking myself up, who are trying to talk about these citizens who are forced on this contractual relationship. Who asked these citizens if they were going to pay a TV subscription and, if they wanted to, who they wanted to pay? Who will explain to those citizens now that millions of euros are being mentioned, respected citizens of Serbia, what the president was talking to some RTS director there yesterday and that millions of euros are being talked about? The Assembly won't pay for it. That's what you'll pay for over the budget. It's just games for little kids and explanations. Where's the contract? Let's see who owes? Is the Assembly a consumer? Are any of the terms of that contract met? Do consumers, Serbian citizens, subscribers, TV subscribers, by force of the law have the right to know, how much pay, say, are members of the RTS Management Board? We'll talk about it this fall. Who gave them that kind of pay? Do Serbian citizens who pay for TV subscription have the right? Let's say, Mr. Minister Milosavljevic, who is now out, I wanted to ask for a village, I think it's interesting for him, Poljanica is called, in Serbia, do they have a TV signal, and are they forced to pay for a TV subscription? It's a new relationship, gentlemen of the Ministry, since there is no minister. So, the citizens are forced. One thing, the basics of the store are that I'm willing to buy some goods. The law has been passed here that they have to pay. Unfortunately, to come out here honestly, in 2002, I voted in favour of this law because I thought that RTS, this Public Service, would really be the public service of Serbian citizens, not the ruling coalition, whoever is in power. Then it would be fair to ask citizens who support what the Public Service reports, particularly informational, in the main shows at half-eight, and not if there's not enough money, let them pay 3,000 dinars, to give the survey. Or we're going to have to start collecting signatures that this Radio-Difusion Act, I think that's what it's called to change it, so whoever loves it and whoever believes what they're saying, pay double and 2,000 and 3,000. It's my impression and, believe me, the vast majority of citizens are bitter about what's being shown at the Public Service. That's one moment when we're talking about public service. The second moment is, do you know, gentlemen of the ministry, that there is a good part of Serbia where these goods, let's say, of the Public Service, of their programme, there is no signal. Where is it in the law of the world that you pay for some goods, and someone doesn't deliver them to you? Do you know what the answer was to the director of Public Service, the New Serbia foreigners, when she asked that four years ago, I insist on it, four years ago, when we were in power? He said, "What difference does it make, pays, and citizens who don't have children's taxes for education. That was the reply of the Director of Public Service. Therefore, Mr Milosavljevic, I would ask you to accept many amendments, which the New Serbia parliamentary group and other parliamentary groups, I think even from the ruling coalition, have submitted. Accept these amendments, to try to convince citizens that even if it is such a sound name and a protective name of the Consumer Protection Act, it is a law that will allow citizens to exercise their rights, when they have already paid for goods or participated in a trade chain or a trade relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44179	The word is the national Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44180	President-in-Office, respected representatives of the Ministry, today I will talk about the proposal for a law on accreditation, as my colleague Vlajko Senic spoke extremely well about the consumer protection bill, so we simply do not repeat ourselves. The draft accreditation law is one of the pro-European laws and laws which are certainly a prerequisite for sustainable economic development. The globalisation of the economy at international level and the increase in consumer awareness have contributed to the creation of quality infrastructure. Quality infrastructure refers to all areas of metricology, quality management, standardisation, testing, conformity assessment, certification and accreditation. Accreditation is a process to determine whether bodies to assess compliance meet certain requirements of Serbian, or European and international standards. The accreditation shall determine the competence of the body to assess compliance with the tasks of the examination, evaluation, control of certification and product, certification of the management system and certification of persons. Quality infrastructure is a component that essentially contributes to the economic and social development of the country. It is an inevitable economic factor, based on work-sharing, as a national, interregional and international trade. Unless there is a good basis for the functioning of the quality system, it is unimaginable to protect the environment, protect health and protect consumer rights. All of us, in principle, expect to get goods or services of a certain quality by buying a product. National quality infrastructure networks must comply with international requirements which are a prerequisite for trade and exchange of services on the European and international markets. The adoption of accreditation law, as a roof law in quality infrastructure, or as we would be told, an initial or final infrastructure law, creates conditions in order to gradually achieve compliance under the relevant EU accreditation legislation, in accordance with the SAA agreement. By adopting the law mentioned, it is a continuation of accreditation operations in the Republic of Serbia in line with European and international standards. Positive statements on the issues of this law and the successful organisation of work in the accreditation body of Serbia and other quality system institutions provide conditions for faster accession to the World Trade Organisation and the EU. One of the preconditions for Serbia's entry into the EU is full membership of Serbia's accreditation body in the European Accreditation Co-operation. Since 2002, we have the status of an associated member and, of course, the accession to multilateral agreements on mutual recognition. The bill on accreditation defines the status of the organisation and way of working in Serbia's accreditation body. It should certainly be stressed that the national accreditation body is transformed from an independent, non-profit organisation into a public service. In addition to the above, I must point out the provision in Article 13 which says that Serbia's accreditation body must not receive gifts, donations from the service user. In addition, it must not provide consulting services or have a share precisely in those parts of the quality infrastructure for which it is tasked to issue a certificate and to verify and control their work, which is certainly one of the essential preconditions for the independence and impartiality of Serbia's accreditation body in carrying out its basic functioning. This is precisely the issue of a certificate confirming that the conformity assessment body is competent to carry out operations, to assess compliance for a specific area in a given scope. In addition to the above, the proposal for this law defines the accreditation process, where the conformity assessment body initiates the accreditation procedure. Serbia's accreditation body is the applicant of the application, the contract regulates mutual rights and obligations. Serbia's accreditation body issues a certificate of accreditation for a certain period of time and checks the work of an accredited conformity assessment body. An important part of this bill is certainly the introduction of cross-border accreditation, allowing the accreditation body of Serbia to direct the body to assess compliance to apply for accreditation, submits the body of another country, unless the accreditation body of Serbia credentials for the given area and, of course, vice versa. In principle, at the very end I would try to very plastically explain what this means for the Republic of Serbia and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There is no quality system and there are no international standards. No producer could ever produce its product outside its home country. In addition, no product could be found on the world market if there were no harmonised standards and harmonised mtrology. Of course, I would point out that this is the last one in a series of laws within the infrastructure of quality. I would point out that Serbia's accreditation body cannot possibly be a political body, as some of my colleagues indicated last night. It's a body that already exists and has its organs. Now that we have the board of directors, the board of directors, it's perfectly normal and it's been there before. You can see on the website of Serbia's accreditation body. In addition to that, when we talk about quality control, we mostly think of many of us who may not be in matter or those who are not in matter think we're talking about control of established standards. This is something quite different, this accreditation body of Serbia is essentially a roof of quality infrastructure. They check out those houses that introduce standards into certain companies. This is very simple and plastic, simple, understanding what we're talking about. What is certainly our goal, especially for us from G 17 plus, is to create conditions for domestic producers to participate in the global market, because if you have strong units in the organisational system in the quality infrastructure, what you as an accreditation body nationalally do in your country can also be recognised beyond the borders of this country, which is certainly a prerequisite for a better life and standard for our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44181	I thank Mrs. Travar Miljevic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44182	I have to express my deep sadness for having experienced, as someone who worked for that October 5th, which happened and was a participant of that October 5th, which was exactly the beginning of the session on October 5th, with that kind of session, and that's not the course of October 5th, and that's what citizens who really believe in that October 5th. Now I'd like to say something about this consumer protection law itself. When this law was found before the MPs and I was really like this with the people who deal with this matter working on this law, the first thing that was people's comment was that the law was too large, that in many parts it was incomprehensible and that it was not systematic enough. In addition, in itself, the law is called the Consumer Protection Act, and in very few parts it actually deals with consumer protection. Thus, for example, there is no European directive on unfair business practice in law, and solutions relating to the market for services of general economic interest, which are electricity, gas, water, have also ignored consumer interests and their rights. I must say that consumer protection has in those parts of the law relating to advertising and advertising, and here I have one part of the promotional material that the Minister and the Ministry have delivered to us all, to all MPs, who are really very useful and very nice and properly done, very modernly made, I am not sure that they cost two million and three hundred thousand euros, as publicly announced that it cost all of this about this law, but they are just useful, I must admit that. In this section about advertising and advertising there is consumer protection, and that's fine, because you can see only on Serbian television such ads where you get fat - you come out skinny, where you get old - you come out young and the like, and that nobody's answering for it, that your mailboxes are regularly full of advertising materials, that on mobile messages, except when it's voting day, so these ruling coalitions send you a message that you need to get out, you get all kinds of other EPP types messages. So these advertising and advertising rights have been misused, and it's okay to finally introduce order in this part. But what is more important for consumers than this advertising is places where decisions are made, where prices are talked about the quality and level of services, where payment conditions are talked about, and there is no consumer protection. There is no protection for consumers in drugs agencies, there is no protection for electricity agencies, there is no protection for advertising and standardisation bodies, and that is very important for consumers. When the research results on what Serbian citizens are most complaining about, in the first place, you can assume, citizens complained about the quality and price of services of public importance, so where the state and local self-government are dealing with citizens. The citizens most complain about that element. That's power supply, that's water, that's gas, and that's the problem that the state, the serious government that is democratic, has to look at what's going on. The second is the complaint concerning relations with financial institutions, banks and other financial institutions, so on and so on. Financial services, and only in third place, with a really big difference, are complaints about the quality and prices of white techniques, clothes, shoes etc. So, in the first place are complaints where the state of charity threatens the rights of its citizens and does not protect them, and that is the story to be told, of course, with someone who is serious and willing to talk about it, and those do not come to the Assembly. The second place is financial services, and what's interesting, the ministry is exactly the part about regulating citizens' issues, i.e. consumers' issues, with financial institutions, banks and the part relating to consumer loans that has been thrown out of the law. That part of regulation no longer exists in this law. However, over two years, as long as the public debate lasted, it really existed as an important part and only recently, at the insistence of the NBS, it was removed from this law, we don't know where it simply doesn't exist anymore. It is really strange for me that the ministry that wants to talk about the adoption of pro-European law does not want to protect its citizens from banks, which is one of the EU directives. The regulation of consumer loans was one of the most significant newspapers this law passed. It was really something that the Ministry went public with, and what, I listened to the minister several times when he spoke in the announcement of this law, how important it was for the citizens and I really thought about it, it's very important for the citizens because a large number of Serbian citizens are dealing with financial institutions and banks because otherwise they can't survive. He's got to get into those arrangements, no matter how unfavorable they are for them. It is also significant because Serbia does not have a regulation to regulate consumer relations with financial institutions and there is no regulation, there is no legislative regulation that would address the issue and regulation of consumer loans. Just because this part was kicked out of the law, that means that banks will still be able to self-initiately change interest on credit, not agreeing with their clients. That means they'll still be able to unilaterally change the terms of the bank's lending, not asking anyone about it. What's scariest for me is banks that don't do that in their countries. These are banks that only do so in Serbia. Why? Because the Serbian government, which is the legislator of this law, is behind it. So with the help of the Serbian government, banks can still abuse what banks do and rob Serbian citizens. Just the fact that all of this happened because the NBS asked that this part of the regulation be withdrawn is a real absurdity. So the NBS continues to argue that this is what she was looking for because she wants to protect the interests of Serbian citizens. Now imagine what an absurd thing that is. You continue robbing Serbian citizens in their interest. I really don't see the logic, so I'd like someone to explain to us how it's possible for someone to rob me in my own interest. In fact, it shows that the government in Serbia, this government, is depriving still Serbian citizens and robbing them in the most terrible way. This shows you also the result of research that says that citizens are now complaining about the quality and level of services from what they get from the state, such as electricity, gas and water. In the proposal for a consumer protection law, the protection mechanism is just being kicked out when it comes to consumer credits, which is very strange, and then I really don't know why we are here saying that the European law is and that the law that protects consumers is, when leaving out this European directive, Serbian citizens are not in the same position as other citizens in Europe who have and respect this directive. This shows how many Serbian citizens with this authority actually have the same rights as other Europeans. What else is weird? Let's say that the Serbian Banks Association demanded that this part of the regulation be withdrawn from the law, perhaps we could understand that it was received by the Ministry of Knowledge, but not withdrawn, because the ministry's withdrawing this part of the regulation makes it a co-criminal for what Serbian citizens today have to experience. But simply, the 12 public debates that followed the withdrawal did not force the Ministry and did not force the minister to return this part of the law to law. So, it seems that these public debates, which talked a lot about this, and most of the time, consumers' associations have provided their demands to MP groups, and also to my parliamentary group, precisely because they felt they failed to prove it to the minister, so they asked us MPs to help them to make this part of the law. Now comes a funny explanation and a minister and a NBS who serves it through the media. They say, we will pass a new, special law to protect the citizens of Serbia and that law will already be in October. Now let's give a cute example that might show that I don't follow the elemental logic or that something else is happening on another relationship. For example, we have passed special laws in the area of trade, we have passed a special law in the field of tourism, so we did not mind that we regulate these areas in this consumer protection law, which is a probationary consumer protection law, so what you're trying to tell us is that another law will be passed, nothing bothers you that part of consumer protection from financial institutions, regulation of consumer credits into this law. Their place is very logical and it's there. What you are not going to do means that Serbia's citizens will in due course remain completely unprotected, when it comes to buying goods on delayed payments, when it comes to granting cash loans and where the bank, consumer and trader appear in the chain. In addition, banks will continue to have the privilege of changing credit conditions, increasing interest rates, not paying attention and not asking clients for an opinion, which, of course, in Europe, is nowhere but an example in Serbia. This violates the EU directive, which sees the notion of a consumer loan much wider than a bank loan, but violates the rights. I looked into this research and according to the Association of Banks of Serbia by 1 August 2010, 36,068 citizens had consumer loans, which is times four, because of the fact that one family had one loan. Let's see when that law comes up. You say in October, but my experience and experience of these 249 other people who are MPs show something else. As soon as the government sent the laws, it also shows that we were able to do other things all September, not to deal with the laws, because the law was not to be put on the agenda of the Assembly. So, about when something's going to come to the agenda is very debateable. What's more controversial about this law? In the part of the legislation where consumer protection system holders are defined, unnecessary conditions are prescribed, completely unreasonable conditions, for consumer organisations. You say there in the bill that consumer organisations must have human resources, professional knowledge and skills. You don't say what professional knowledge and skills are, it would be interesting to hear that, because it might determine the MPs of the opposition to vote for such a law, I'm joking. Why am I still kidding? I'm joking that the minister was sitting in this government that passed the Association Act at the beginning of the year. The law regulates personnel capacities and anything else relating to the Association of Citizens. You can't prescribe them the conditions they need to meet, so that's totally ridiculous. Please, Mr. Minister, contact Mr. Milan Markovic, he has presented the Law on Citizens' Associations twice here. We've learned a lot about it, but it looks like you should learn too. Of course we're fully aware of what this provision is about. This provision should be restrictive, that some associations of citizens are favored, that will be when the Ministry, of course, makes them public, in relation to those who really need to protect consumers and their rights and interests. Such associations existed and exist in this country. How it never occurred to you to strengthen the capacity of those who exist, but to make some new ones who need to play political games. It shows me very nicely that the government does not actually work in the interests of citizens, does not protect the rights of citizens and consumers, but works in its interest to protect its tycoons, its bankers, its monopolies that are not monopolies etc. Of course, to conclude, this is not the law that was meant to appear in front of the MPs as it is. Mr Milosavljevic has passed laws before the MPs so far, and this is one of the worse laws. In fact, the very idea of the law is very good, consumers need to be protected, but Serbian citizens, actually consumers, this government does not protect, it just abuses them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44183	The word is held by the people Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44184	Madam President, Mr Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the volume of world trade has increased multiple in the last three decades compared to the average annual growth rates in the world. In the same period, the rapid increase in trade, the significant participation of the producers themselves and their corporate strategy in the global trade in goods led to quality becoming a key factor in export success. This raises the importance of infrastructure and quality that make up standardisation, accreditation and conformity assessment systems, as well as the basis for gaining confidence in the market and achieving the competitiveness of products and services. That's exactly why we're discussing the accreditation law today, and I'm sure in a few days, this law will be passed. This law also regulates accreditation, position and work of the national accreditation body in the Republic of Serbia, as well as other issues of importance for this area. Accreditation is the establishment by the national accreditation body, whether the conformity assessment body, or whether it meets the requirements of the relevant Serbian, or international European standards and where variable, of any additional requirements defined for certain areas in order to carry out certain conformity assessment tasks. On the other hand, the assessment of compliance is any activity which determines whether certain requirements relating to the product, process, service or system are met. The application of standards at the first moment may seem irrelevant to our lives, but also as it has an impact on the safety of the facilities in which we live and work, the health care we receive, food production, textiles, electrical devices, on all products, processes and services that we use in the area of agriculture, acoustics, fire and anti-explosive protection, in the areas of chemistry and chemical products, construction, electrical engineering, electronics, radio, telecommunications, machinery, environmental and working environment protection, food safety, energy, medicines, textiles, rubber, packaging, working environment, tobacco, tobacco products, products from general use, once worded to all. Members from 5th to 10th organise the establishment and organisation of the accreditation body of Serbia, and it is foreseen that this body has the right position, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia and to which the provisions of the public service law apply. The main objective of the transformation of the national body for accreditation and independent non-profit organisations is to specify the status of the body for accreditation in the quality infrastructure system in Serbia, as well as to create the possibility for this body to acquire full membership status in European organisations, i.e. with accreditation associations, which is one of the preconditions for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. The law also regulates the activity of this body, i.e. the tasks to be carried out by the accreditation body, as well as the obligation of the body to regularly make information available to the public on the tasks it performs, as well as information on the results of the college evaluation. Articles 11 and 12 shall contain provisions establishing the authorities of the national accreditation body, as well as the existence of a professional body and expert committees. Members shall arrange the accreditation procedure from 14th to 19th. The procedure shall be initiated by submitting the conformity assessment body to the national accreditation body an application for accreditation. Members from 20 to 22 define cross-border accreditation. Namely, this section of the law is in line with the provisions of Article 7 of the European Union Regulation on requests for accreditation and market surveillance from 9 July 2008. The law provides for the possibility of cross-border co-operation in the field of accreditation, i.e. the possibility of a national accreditation body to assess the compliance of registers in the Republic of Serbia, to submit a application for accreditation to another country's accreditation body unless our national accreditation body credentials in relation to compliance assessment activities required by accreditation. It is also possible for the accreditation body of Serbia to carry out the accreditation procedure at the request of the body to assess the compliance of another country, in cases where another country has not established a national accreditation body or that body does not carry out the conformity assessment activities required by accreditation. Furthermore, it stressed the importance of a collegiate evaluation which represents the process of assessing the accreditation body by national accreditation bodies of other countries, which gave our national body the possibility that, after the completion of the college evaluation, credentials agreements on the recognition of accreditation acts with accreditation bodies of other countries and of European and other international accreditation organisations. It is important to point out that one of the previous conditions for the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the European Union and full membership of Serbia's accreditation body in the European Co-operation for Accreditation and Accession of multilateral agreements on mutual recognition, establishing a single market without technical barriers to trade. It is certain that these are very convincing arguments for this law to be unanimously adopted in this House. But first of all, I see this law as one of the great aspirations of our citizens to be part of a single-larged system to which we belong anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44185	MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must express my dissatisfaction with the phenomenon that seems to have become a rule - that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is asking for most of the laws that come into the National Assembly to be adopted by an urgent procedure. As a result of such a radical rule, only the constitutionality of such laws can be asked which, of course, the National Assembly has adopted expressly, and which have not even been in public debate. Also, I don't see any connective tissue that takes two or more different laws together, or two or more laws that regulate various areas, and I would really like the proposer of this agenda to explain in the future the motives for this joined principle search and this agenda. As for the SNS's objections to the SNS parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on accreditation, they have been translated into twenty amendments that we have submitted, and it concerns the very essence of the area that this law should regulate. The first complaint refers to the very name of the bill, because the name of the accreditation law does not refer to the exact content of this law, because it is the subject of the regulation of this law, in fact, the quality control of products and services, or the conditions which must be met by organisations authorised to control quality. You will admit that a much more appropriate name of this law should be a law on quality control of products and services. That this solution proposed by the amendment by the SNS is much better said and the fact that the concept of accreditation appears in many other areas and other regulations, because it is a very general concept that is in very wide application. The accreditation is also called the authorisation procedure for the work of higher education institutions in the Higher Education Act. Also, accreditation is called the process of naming diplomatic representatives in foreign countries and international organisations. By retaining this name of the law, you will only enter additional confusion. Our next complaint also refers to the term "accreditation body", since the use of the word "body" especially in all the members of this bill is an obvious consequence of the lack of understanding of the legal position of that legal entity and the attempt to determine the name by mechanical and incorrect translation of the term "accreditation body" used in Council Regulation No 765/2008. The term was translated by law writers as an accreditation body, instead of an authorised authority or an authorised entity, which would be both the correct translation and the real meaning of the term. Therefore, it would be necessary in the bill to replace the term "accreditation body of Serbia" with the term "Agency for Quality Control". I am really trying to understand you, which is because of the justified criticism of the opposition, but also the entire Serbian public, because of the existence of a large number of government agencies, you are trying to mask them by giving them incorrect, unreasonable, "fensi" names. What he would also point out is that this bill is an example of complete confusion due to unnecessary simultaneous use of multiple words of foreign origin. This is especially seen in Article 2(2) where you simultaneously use the words certification, accreditation and competence. This provision explains that the certificate in accreditation is a document issued to a body that is competent. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, does anyone understand this definition at all? This is such a nadadic language structure that writers and legislators really don't think they have anything to be proud of. In translation into classical and clear Serbian, and yet this is the National Assembly of the RS, this certificate is, in fact, a belief of the fulfillment of the conditions for carrying out a conformity assessment, which is issued to a legal or physical person who has met the prescribed conditions. Next, Article 4. The proposal for a law on accreditation is completely unnecessary and without any meaning. Citing in the law that voluntary is what is not mandatory, really makes no sense, needlessly burdens the text and makes it unclear. Already, the very fact that the procedure is being initiated at the party's request indicates that it is not mandatory, as it would otherwise be initiated by the official authority. Article 15. The proposal is very incomprehensible, contains unnecessary details that should not be regulated by law, and certain solutions are contrary to the basic legal principles of the administrative procedure. As a confirmation, I shall specify Article 15(3), which states that the procedure is interrupted if it is found that one of the conditions is not met. However, the General Administrative Procedure Act prescribes a different procedure and obliges the competent authority to order the party, in such a case, to complete the request. However, this bill does not provide for this. Mr. Secretary, for the SNS, he's also a member of 19. The proposal is controversial, which stipulates that an appeal against the decision of the accreditation body of Serbia is being decided by the Board of Appeals in the Agency itself, i.e. in the accreditation body itself, which is being educated by the ATS Management Board. Such a legal solution is contrary to the basic legal principles on the protection of the rights of citizens in the proceedings against the authorities of the administration established by the Constitution. According to the general legal principles, the accreditation body cannot be at the same time both in the role of the party in the proceedings and in the role of the body which resolves the complaint, because it is an unprecedented conflict of interest. I will remind you again of the General Administrative Procedure Act, where Article 216 requires that resolution in the second degree cannot determine the jurisdiction of the first-degree body, and the proposal for this law provides for such jurisdiction. In our language, there is a saying that describes such a procedure, and that saying is, "When you're sued, the cadium sues you," because this legal solution ends under the hat of the ATS and how you can convince us that the Board of Appeals will be impartial. Finally, in the style of this whole bill, I am sorry that Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic is not there, because this question would be addressed to him, that he, as a body competent, will receive a certificate of accreditation, if he understands what it means at all, only if you put the complaint and amendments of the SNS in the proposal for a law on accreditation and thus save the whole law. Since I'm sure Mr. Milosavljevic is not competent and will not accept our views, the SNS will not support such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44187	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44188	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the parliament and respected citizens of Serbia, last night as a committee rapporteur, I said I would have a follow-up of my speech today in front of the SRS parliamentary group. I can tell you that these are two important corporate laws that require citizens to feel better. Since our economy and business production are on the rise, we also have a gross domestic product and since we have a surplus on exports, and since we are the fastest country out of recession, so the government and ministers said, and they need to believe, what they say, because on October 5th, they told citizens that they would be better and better off, and in fact October 5th is the biggest national disgrace, so we need to bring this kind of control law that you called accreditation. We are also signatories of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and are also actively negotiating the accession to the World Trade Organisation with this kind of production. You have to believe me, on this economic plan, the government is making superhuman efforts, with the expertise of the Euro-Atlantic and non-governmental sectors, to create conditions for the formation of another non-competitive, lagging and over-indebted drug crime in this area. Therefore, appropriate territorial economic branches are encouraged: entertainment, gambling, drugs and prostitution, and jackets of traditional and exceeded industries, which are agriculture, industry, construction and the like, which, by neocolonial economic doctrine, should not even exist in such countries as ours. There shouldn't even be polite systems of health and education. I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that under the pretext of approaching EU laws in this country, a Euroterror is also being carried out. Accreditation - control would not be bad if it were to be carried out in a two-way manner when importing and exporting, as regards laboratory examinations and certificates. Example: imports of artificial fertilisers. I have to tell you that last year was imports from Kutina three fifteen, which is one of the most artificial fertilisers used in Serbia to feed plants. What happened? It happened that what it says on the packaging of three fifteens, it's actually three eights of potassium, nitrogen and phosphorus. It was a major diversion over agriculture, and I believe that the government and that trade lobby were supposed to intervene even then, because these laboratory tests showed that the quality of this fertilizer was below standard. If it had not been for this country through a trade lobby, they would have imported rotten chicken meat through Kosovo and Metohija from Brazil and Argentina, which for many years has been in the coolants of Western Europe, whose period of validity has long passed for them, but for this Balkan country, Serbia and its citizens have not passed the deadline, it remains. By other standards, goods are produced for the countries of the European Union, and in particular for the countries of Balkan origin. Accreditation is voluntary, so I wonder why she too found herself in an emergency procedure after two years, because imported goods are not subject to laboratory checks and certain standards and certificates. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid that Serbian owners, as well as the largest domestic tycoons, have not yet understood that personal benefits and significant personal wealth can be created so that society and the state do not have to be damaged. Privilege is not a zero-sum game. This truth is well known in developed countries that have not crossed the path to Serbia, where they measure their success at the top of the pyramid with a degree of misery in which they have managed to throw the rest of the society. As far as consumer protection laws are concerned, I wonder and fear where you pass a law, there are only large abuses and malfeasances, so the latest example of when oil was found from the supply reserves – Zetainin, where you set the price for 119 dinars, and last year you bought for the republican reserves of 75 dinars. Many trade chains or shops have raised the price to 140 and 150 dinars, and then you appear in stores and imaginations – this must not happen, now control and inspectors will take action so that such abuses do not happen. What happens after that? You do not punish anyone, you say – everything was regular, but the price of oil will be 119 dinars. How come it's not 120 dinars? Where did you find that dinar? You probably left it for the poor so you could help them with that one dinar. That's not all, ladies and gentlemen, it's still what you do in control, and that's the price of bread. Now we have three or four types of bread price. That log that's probably 400-500 grams somewhere, and about 30, about 40, about 50 dinars. All under the pretext -- they don't have bakeries, and the mill industry, they're down, but you don't ask who's down? He's a peasant in a minus, he's in the biggest minus because you took that stuff from him. You bought the grain from him. Why don't you make some other bread, corn or anything else, but you have to make wheat? Ladies and gentlemen, what was happening to the petoctobar revolution is probably the biggest tragedy of the Serbian people, where workers voluntarily handed over their jobs and their factories, where peasants also handed over or sold to tycoons, to this commercial lobby, cannot live from their work, sell, steal their goods, where you pay pensions from the IMF, where you told young people – after 5 October you will live better without visas. What's going on today? Those with a backpack on their backs, their belly after bread, walk around Europe looking for work, cannot start their families, and there is the erosion of Serbia, there is the erosion of the Serbian people. Ladies and gentlemen, all this contributes to the fact that the EU shares Europe's citizens on Europeans, those already members of the EU, and Europeans, who will mostly be candidates for entry into this institution. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say about that permanent fleet of yours, which is, I've heard from the president of Serbia these days, that Serbia has the capacity to deal with organised crime, but I wonder where the criminals are, did they perhaps hide in your ranks? I have an example to tell you. When there was a silver theft in the pharmaceutical industry Pharmacy in Capac, the one who stole the silver, he was four or five years old, until he discovered, yelled and asked the people who run the company to find the thief, and in fact he was a thief. Therefore, you have to imagine, fat and deep, whether there are among you those who steal well and fat and who have become richly rich over these poor and poor people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44189	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44190	I'd like to draw your attention, especially given the way we started today's debate, to the fact that the rules and procedures laid down represent the legal system base. So rules and procedures exist for this very reason to protect ourselves from anarchy, to protect ourselves from chaos. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a new Rules of Procedure, that we have a new autumn regular session, and that things are not moving in that direction to respect that Rules of Procedure and that we really do follow that fall session in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure. The current Rules of Procedure stipulates, among other things, that the Assembly is sitting on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, that the working day of the session or the meeting of the Assembly should last from 10.00 to 18:00 hours, as a rule. So that's how it should be if we follow the rules. However, I would like to ask you a question. Was it Tuesday yesterday, was it Wednesday or was it Thursday? No, I don't. So, we've already done it by the book. We've already done it by some exceptions. Did we finish the hearing at 6:00 yesterday? No, we're not. We have just begun to discuss this proposal for a consumer law at 6 p.m., therefore, after working hours are up, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure. As a rule, that's right, but it was done by exception. And that's not enough. At the beginning of today's session, we have experienced that the people's MP, the president of the parliamentary group and the other MPs are being ruled out by sound. The MP shall be interrupted, although it is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure that no one, but no one may interrupt the presentation of the MP except the President of the Assembly when provided for by the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. I can draw your attention to the fact that none of the people's MPs who have broken up have been given a measure of taking away words that could possibly result in the exclusion from the electronic system or the disfellowshipping of the sound system. When all this is subdued, what do you get? There's a mess. We have set out to discuss a legislative proposal that is extremely significant, it is one of those pro-European laws, which should introduce some order in relation to the one who provides services and the one who receives and the consumer. What's going on? What's happening is that we're being chaoticly moving to discuss the legal proposals that are of great importance to this country and this society. If this were not the only example of chaos that follows, let's say, the Consumer Law proposal, I would also indicate the fact that, according to the legislator, the law had been in public debate for two years. It appears - there were 12 public debates. It's not the essence of the quantity of public debate. The main thing is the quality of public debates, the point is whether the objections to this law were taken into account, whether these remarks were good. From this text of the bill, I couldn't quite say it. This law lacks some serious elements, serious segments of the consumption area without which this law cannot be complete, no matter how large, at first glance, no matter how thick the booklet is, unless this law improves the essential attitude towards the consumer. You will allow - consumers are all citizens of this Serbia, the average citizens of this Serbia, who and how they depend on how we regulate our relationship with consumers with this new legislation. This bill of law gives rise to a few things. First of all, during these public debates, 12, as reportedly, were lost somewhere in the area of consumer loans. I would like to underline the fact that consumer loans represent a slightly wider concept than ordinary bank loans and that these consumer loans are also the subject of the European Directive 2008/48, which is, by the way, Europe and how it insists. So this directive, which is its content, also has this European essence with which we should normally harmonize the domestic regulation with the European Union regulation. What happens when we leave out such an important area as consumer loans? For example, there is absolutely no regulatory relationship between a banker and a consumer. It's just that there's no regulation of what's famously delayed payment, and there's no regulation of loan cash. Therefore, consumers remain unprotected. Consumers of these loans, for example, lose the right to either unilaterally cancel or give up the already concluded loan within a legal period of 14 days, which was one of the proposals in that famous consumer bill that has been lost during the public debate over the past two years. Then, this law won't even take into account that someone who took the loan might want to repay the loan prematurely without having to pay the penalty to the bank because it's up-to-date. That was also how it was regulated and envisaged. Therefore, the area of consumer credit does not exist in this law. You will allow it – it is inadmissible. The second segment that is quite inaccurate and apparently has certain shortcomings and makes the content of this law – these services are of general economic interest. Unfortunately, we are aware that these services are as services in telecommunications, electricity, utility services and so on, the gas of the famous, that they are dominated by monopolies and above all by the state monopoly. In doing so, we did not only stay at the state monopoly of the Serbian state, but we introduced another state to supplement that monopoly state - Russia. I'm undermining, it's about that famous gas arrangement, it's about the gas that's already being talked about, and it's supposed to be 30, 20, so we're going to meet somewhere at 18%, and then the citizens will be very happy because it's not a 30% increase, but it's only 18, 15, 10%. You will allow, each percentage of the increase in the price of gas is of great importance for the home budget of every Serbian citizen living off his work. If this important area does not have strong enough support in terms of regulating the rights and obligations of those who provide these services and those receiving them, then those provisions will not be sufficiently concrete, they will not be effective enough. The Liberal Democratic Party, or several of us from the LDP, have submitted an amendment in this regard and we expect the amendment to be taken into account in order to really improve the country's attitude towards consumers of these general economic services, i.e. goods. These are the two basic objections we have in relation to this law, and there is yet another serious objection, which is to Article 129, point 4, because the conditions are completely unreasonable and unnecessarily foreseen for the safety system holders. What does that mean? This means, let's say, that the Ministry keeps not only the records of associations and alliances, but that the Ministry takes care of it and assumes the discretionary right to appreciate whether these associations have the resources of certain capacities in terms of professionalism, knowledge and skills. You will allow, it is truly inappropriate and it is an over-authorization of the Ministry's authority regarding associations and alliances which have, above all, an obligation to protect consumers. I suppose they will join together and really protect those consumers, not that the Ministry is taking care of their abilities, to implement the protection of consumer rights. So, all in all, this consumer law proposal has such shortcomings that are simply not qualified to be supported by the LDP, and for this reason, unless the LDP amendments are adopted, we cannot support this legislative proposal in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44191	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44192	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of a few words about the accreditation law. I can say that such a law is needed with one finding, that the accreditation body of Serbia has worked well in recent years, but as in all others, the government is a real problem. Here's how. Our accreditation body of Serbia has been an associate member of the European Accreditation Co-operation since 2002. In 2007, a memorandum was signed with European institutions dealing with the problem. On February 17th, our body became an associated member of an international laboratory accreditation operation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you who praise this accreditation law, see how the Government is causing a problem? In the last year and a half, correspondence from these bodies came that this body must form a supervisory board because it threatens to exclude as an associate member. For a year and a half, the government has that signal. Over 20 letters came from the EU to form a supervisory board. Do you know why the Supervisory Board is important? Because he deals with serious problems and oversees the work of that body. Without that body, Serbia's accreditation body cannot function properly. So, 20 letters from the EU, a reminder of exclusion as an associate member, and the government finds a Solomonian solution to propose a new law. The basic question is, what have you been doing for a year and a half? Was there a law? Was there a body? Yes, it is. Why didn't you have a board of supervisors? Because the government doesn't care. Now you're sending Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, to defend this law. Mr. Milosavljevic, as health minister, fought the Assembly Health Committee for four years, not wanting to form a national health council. So that's the principle of this government's behavior. You're interested in that. Find a Solomonian solution to study the new law. Was that body in the old law? Of course it is. Why didn't you form a monitoring board? To deal with speculation. That's why the government's causing trouble. So much for that accreditation law. This is what Serbian citizens need to know, how you respect European directives. When you get warnings, then you don't care, you don't react to it. Now I'd like to say something about this consumer protection law. I must say, it seems to me, given the situation in which it is currently in place, that it may have been good to pass a law on the protection of citizens and consumers from this government and from this government. I think that law should be passed first. Mr Minister, in yesterday's afternoon presentation, you said the following - this means that in relation to the legislation in this area, the first time is the system that is fully in line with consumer protection standards in the EU single market and in a favourable sense. Mr. Minister, we have received this law with an explanation of the law, an explanation of the concepts and all EU directives and please, Mr. Minister, to turn page 212. On page 212, EU Directive 2002/65, etc. with a 2007 addition to financial services, it says - uncoordinated. How can you claim that this is harmonised and send us a bill that says it's not harmonised? Mr. Minister, in an explanation of the terms of point 13 of Article 5, you say – financial services are banking credit services. Is there a section in this law, Mr. Minister? Why are you explaining something that doesn't exist in the law? Didn't you have so much hearing or didn't you read the law that you wrote what you wrote, that you kicked him out of the law so he wouldn't stand by the law? In your explanation, you said there was a public debate. Nobody slows it down. In the press it can be found and from your words it can be concluded that there have been 12 such discussions. What came of these discussions? Did the law get support in these discussions? Have any other opinions been heard, Mr. Minister? They heard each other. The epilogue of all this for a few days prior to the arrival of this financial service law, or bank loans, shall be excluded from the draft law. What for, Mr. Minister? Explanation - she asked for NBS. Is it possible that this is about the new NBS law we passed a while ago, this summer? Is this perhaps about that five-month salary of the governor of the NBS, that Serbian citizens must know, which is 450,000 dinars? Could it be about that? As the peak of hypocritical behavior, banks, banks' associations say they disagree with such a decision. It's extremely hypocritical. What for, Mr. Minister? Because there are currently interest rates in the country of Serbia that are accounted for by citizens and businesses as in flea market, as in a flea market in New Belgrade. For the same type of credit at one bank, 5%, with the other 8%, at the third 15%, at some 25%. That's right. That's how it is when the state's banking system is destroyed, so these banks are brought in by tycoons, and then they deal with interest and drag their hands into the pockets of Serbian citizens. We expected more, Mr. Minister, than this law, but this law, in the end, I'll say that, doesn't regulate three key things. They do not regulate services of general economic interest, and that is what fellow MPs said about electricity, gas, water. It does not regulate policy participation in consumer protection. How can I be a double archeologist for consumer associations where you're looking for law school, looking for what you're looking for, and at the Ministry, maybe a higher school. Is that a settlement of party interests? Is this some party device of yours supposed to be employed in that same ministry? That's it. That's quite clear. Thirdly, is it possible for citizens, in view of such laws, to be available to justice? No, Mr. Minister. That's what the citizens of Serbia are interested in. None of these three objectives were provided by this law. What is worst and what the citizens of Serbia need to know, they live in an irregular state. To drag their hand into their pocket in the most insolent and rude way. We can't vote for a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44193	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. Just to let you know that in accordance with article 87, and for the efficiency of work, we'll be working after 1800 hours today. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44194	Would you just tell me how many minutes our MP group has left?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44195	Sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44196	Thank you. In the debate when we were bringing in the Rules of Procedure, I had one small remark that nowhere has it been decided that there is a board standing somewhere, so that we know what law is currently at the debate, how much the parliamentary group has spent time, how much time it has, but for this degree of civilization and technique seems unattainable, so I have to spend some of my time asking you how much time I have. That doesn't say that you can't provide that information to citizens and MPs. It says that in your stubbornness and desire to carry out your will behind which there is no benefit but to prove power, it is stronger than what is called the right to inform. In a similar tone where the citizen is damaged again, and the one who prescribes and makes the law, the one who has the power to determine is this law we're talking about. So, on that background, in this style, we're talking about consumer protection law. My basic conclusion, in addition to what I said last night, who knows when it was transferred last night, is that even those rights you offer in a narrow range when you realize they humiliate the consumer, that is, the buyer that needs to realize it. Let every citizen remember how many times he felt humiliated when he didn't return the change or offer himself instead of change, it was a practice, some gum, and that he should feel uncomfortable looking for his rights and say – I have the right to my change, however much it takes to give me back the little one. In this way of humiliation, and in order to achieve some right, we act as a state. The present minister who came at the time of the debate when the question was asked whether there was an authorised debate minister under this law can testify that what I'm saying is true, that the exercise of the right is humiliating. The Law on Parliament, the Law on Government, the Law on Ministries, the Rules of Procedure on Labour define which of the representatives of the Government will be found here to explain the law. When I say -- find here, I don't mean to sit in a place planned for the government, but to participate in the interpretation of the law we're talking about. Since we had a misunderstanding, which is not a misunderstanding for me, but is proof of the violence of those who take their right to interpret the laws and Rules of Procedure, waiting for their turn to talk about the law I was forced to do a little bit of the Law on Government, the ministries and to see that you, gentlemen of the Ministers, were actually humiliated by the Assembly's leadership when you attend and should actively participate in the work on a certain legislative proposal, because you as individuals, as ministers in charge of a particular area are treated in the Assembly in accordance with Article 25. The government law, which says - the authority of the minister to whom the term of office has been suspended by a member of the government, who is appointed by the Prime Minister. The only analogy to be sent to the Assembly during a debate on a particular bill by any minister, when I say any, I respect it in an area which he has implemented in the law on ministries and for the area for which he has been elected, but if, with all due respect to the Minister of Faith, he is there when the law of medicine or trade is discussed, I can only believe that the Prime Minister and the Assembly's leadership that allows such representation is treated only in accordance with Article 23, as the minister to whom the term of office has ceased and then can change you. Do you know how long that condition can last? All 15 days, because the same government law says the election of a new minister must take place within 15 days and the Prime Minister must propose a new one. What's interesting? There is a second provision, Chapter three of the laws that treats your work, where there are jobs that can work together all the ministries. I refer to those who do not know it, and try to interpret the law, the law, the Rules of Procedure, and others, to be instructed in this matter and to look at Chapter Three, which says that jobs are common to all ministries of international co-operation, under two – the conclusion and application of international contracts and under three – technical regulations that mean preparation, adoption, or the proposal of technical regulations. Neither is the law on accreditation, nor is the consumer protection law, for which we had a disputed technical regulation this morning, nor are international contracts, nor are they international co-operation, although we are witnessing a distortion of the basic meaning not only of legal terms but of words at all. I'm not looking for a job right now, I don't think I'm holding someone back for a second to vote on hurting the Rules of Procedure, because we all remember Radovan Bozovic, who said he could vote and that the country is fourth. He will probably remain remembered for that, not because he did it, and nothing else is, but the will of the ruling majority cannot commit violence against law, logic, regulations, rules and laws. I believe the practice will continue. The goal of me talking about it in this way is for citizens to hear how a home is required to protect the rights of citizens, the rights of MPs refer to laws, regulations and rules. Now I'm only going to talk here about three specific members of the law, because I'm not going to repeat what I said last night and what my colleagues mentioned. What has been left out in terms of consumer credit protection. I'll talk about Art. 5, 34 and 83 as completely wrong prisms, pillars on which the law stands. In Article 5, point 25, you have a definition of the damage in the Consumer Protection Act where the damage is so narrowly interpreted, and not as the Law on Liabilities, as one of the better laws that we have and should apply as a legal system, and is given in a narrow interpretation, where we have provided for in the amendment, that the damage is considered not only by reducing someone's property as ordinary damage and preventing its increase, what is called an outward benefit in legal terminology, as well as the application of other physical pain or fear, immaterial damage. Now, in order for citizens to understand the practical importance of this purposely defined narrowed terminology, i.e. a narrowed understanding of the concept of damage, I'm going to say what it looks like in practice. The consumer who suffers from the behaviour of the trader has the right to compensation under the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act. So says this law, and it will, as a lex specialis, derivate the provisions, i.e. it will be above the law of generality, which is the Law on bond relations. This means that he will be able to be compensated, in a process that humiliates, such as working here, very often, only those material damages he suffers from the behaviour of traders who result in damage or destruction of property that serves personal use or is used for consumption. I'm asking you now - if the buyer buys an electric stove shop, bring it to a family house with four separate apartments. His two brothers and another sister live, and he and his family, each one has his own family. The electrical stove malfunction burns down the installation in the entire family house. According to this interpretation of the damage and this narrowed definition, I ask the question – can the damaged consumer seek damages and be compensated, given the interpretation, that the common items of family household and personal property of consumers are two different categories? I can't believe this didn't occur to some lawyer, because these are a lot of situations in practice. But this is not a consumer protection law that, in its definition, wanted to protect the consumer fully. I'm talking about Article 34 - doing and delivering services. Article 34 defines that the trader is obliged to act by order within 30 days of the conclusion of the long-distance contract, which is concluded outside the business premises. It's totally undeniable. It cannot require consumers to pay upfront and is obliged to keep it without delay, meaning consumer, to notify if it is not possible to make the delivery. You have not noticed that where you define a right, you are, in fact, making it impossible for him not to say – in what time, my dear gentlemen, is he obliged to inform him? You know, we also have a case when we talked about the Competition Protection Commission, when those reasons for resolution come up, so we left the possibility and, you did not want to accept that amendment, that they were obliged to give notice to the Trade Committee within a certain period of time, to resign or so on. You have to predict both the deadline and the way the cake works. You missed the deadline here. What can I say? It's not too much correspondence, if we're told which vice president is changing the president of the assembly, because while I'm sitting here, I don't know where she is. But I do know that I have a written notice coming up that I can't copy the law, that I have to go down the road and ask to be transported to congregation duty, about 500 meters because I'm late for congregation work. We have to look for everything in writing and make sure that all of this remains evidence. It's okay, for some expense, to record fuel consumption, to use light in some room where I sit and work. I respect that, but that measure of retaliatory responsibility, respect and compensation for damages must exist, starting from here to our consumer law. We can't act like pieters who don't eat the products they make. We have to act as responsible as people who ask for respect for the rules, but first they apply them, and they go from themselves. The amendments were predicted to be 30 days at the latest. I'm moving on, just another member I've taken into consideration. It is a member of 83, which speaks of supplying, or access to services of general economic interest. Many have said that it is really important for the consumer to have the right to provide services of general economic interest, appropriate quality and at an affordable price. In this process of joining consumers on a distribution scale, the trader is obliged, now listen carefully to me to act publicly, to avoid discrimination and to account for the actual costs of the services provided. You wrote it all well, you just didn't say that he should get it as a consumer to be supplied with these services and under these services in the territory he lives on. Tell me now that's understood. No, nothing is understood, because what doesn't say, we've been arguing all morning whether it's writing or whether it's a matter of ordinary law and oral surrender. I am an economist, but I was studying the right to an economy. We know what the sources of rights are and what the obligations arising from the law that is written here are, unlike some who think they can do anything with oral surrender. Why is this important? If we have a theme in this home today, if there is a contract on the transfer of assembly sessions and on which someone promises three million in rebalancing, three million euros in the Assembly, I ask, if there is no way in the Rules of Procedure to provide the public with these sessions, so it is said, in front of RTS, we are not obliged to provide you with the public. So, the public doesn't mean that it's the public service that has arranged for reruns of reruns or the transfer of crickets and rugbys or the transfer of the most important things in the world, football. I personally highly respect Mr Tijanic and I have never failed to read any of his texts I have seen published anywhere, but this is the time in which Dinkic gives me credits, Mrka builds bridges, and Tijanic takes the Assembly three million euros for the sessions. My lords, this is not a privatized state, as some think. The power of the institutions is that it is not very important who is the first man in its place, but that the principles of work, ways of conduct, the negotiation of obligations, their respect for the matter of the institutional framework of an orderly rule of law, and that an individual, with his personal integrity, may add that fine spice called the strength of a person, professionality, personal seal, intelligence, creation, history, and I don't know what. How is it possible that somewhere there may be a contract that we don't know anything about, we don't know how much this country is bound by, from which the funds will be paid and, the basic question, are we the first in the Assembly to be in debt as budgetary users to provide public procurement with a public service? Why should we call only Mr. Milosavljevic, one, the other or any minister that he did something with a direct contract? Who has the right to make direct arrangements for the transfer of congregation meetings? Perhaps other televisions would also appear under more favourable conditions, or we have a mutual bargain that promotes whom, so the price decreases because public funds are placed on the table, placing, or paying for work. When I put out my position a little bit in the hallway, they told me – they'll never show you on RTS. No, I don't care. Citizens know that RTS shows what they want to see about themselves. We're talking about citizens here, and I hope they heard me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44197	National MP Goran Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44198	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia, in the context of today's joint principled search, we need to hold a debate on two draft laws, which are the proposal for a law on accreditation and a proposal for a consumer protection law. From the very name, most of you would think that this second law is much more important and more important than the first, because in a way we are all consumers in the state of Serbia, so this law concerns all of us, but this time I will talk more about the first law, the law on accreditation, while my distinguished colleagues will focus more attention on this second consumer protection law. Namely, the proposal for a law on accreditation is, as my esteemed colleague, Master Master Srboljub Zivanovic, said, a typical European law, because he served well one fact that EU leaders share a resident continent on Europeans and Europeans, so I think this is at least pro-European, one typical European law, and I will try to explain why. The bill on accreditation is nothing more than a logical extension of the two laws that we have already passed in this assembly, if I am not mistaken, in July of last year, and this was the Law on Standardisation and the Law on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Consistency for Continuity, i.e. for a better understanding of today's bill, and I will briefly remind the citizens of Serbia of the problem which was dealt with in these two aforementioned laws. We all know that there have been several states and state communities in these areas over the past 50 years, we have lived first in the SFRY that ended the way it ended, and then the SRJ, and then the SCG State Community, to finally reach the present Republic of Serbia, which is, unfortunately, the only one of the former republics with undefined borders due to the temporary occupation of 15% of its territory. Now each of these countries has dealt in their own specific way with the problem we are discussing today, but the bottom line is that two groups of activities have always been able to identify themselves under this problem. The first group consisted of activities related to the procedure for the adoption of appropriate standards, and the second group were activities related to various technical regulations, accreditation, certification and testing, labelling and packaging of products. For the first group of activities, I will remind you, there was a federal standardisation agency based in Belgrade that introduced known JUS standards, and for the second group of activities was responsible for so-called. The Yugoslav accreditation body for accreditation tasks, i.e. then-resoring ministries in the federal government for individual regulations in the relevant areas. The story of standardisation is more or less known to everyone. It ended by no longer having the JUS standards that we were used to, and their place was occupied by Serbian standards that we still need to get used to. But to understand the essence of the problem in this area, I'm going to give you a few more details. Namely, in the Official Journal of Serbia-Montenegro, No. 22/06, a regulation establishing the SCG Standardisation Institute was published. It was an institution that never lived in practice for the simple reason that it was never even registered in a court register because it was the same day that the common state disappeared and it would probably be trivial and the only case in the world that some state had an institution and there was no state itself. To overcome the emerging problem, the government simply renamed the Institute for Standardisation of the SCG to the Institute for Standardisation of Serbia, but now it was no longer an institution that acted as a state administration body, but an independent institution. You see, there is a fundamental difference between former JUS standards and emerging Serbian standards. Namely, once some of the JUS standards were adopted, its application was mandatory for the territory of the entire country, and, unlike it, the emerging Serbian standards are based on the principle of volunteering, which means that the user of the standard can choose a Serbian standard or a standard of another country. I did not just accidentally bring this phenomenon of standardisation, but in order to point out a coincidence that has to do with today's bill of law, which is that on the principle of volunteering, the World Trade Organisation has been insisting, as we know, that we have been holding negotiations on membership for many years, and you see, the same World Trade Organisation is now insisting that this accreditation law be adopted urgently. What's further, you can conclude for yourself. The World Trade Organisation would thus get free hands to place its products on the Serbian market that simply cannot be placed on Europe's territory, but would become, as counterpart Zivanovic said, European products that would end up on our market and that certainly do not have the necessary properties in terms of both quality and other characteristics, and there is a danger that lies in the adoption of such a law. Serbia could, slowly but certainly, become a European dump for all bad products and even for shrimp products because it is known that in developed countries that have harsh standards something like that could not happen. In other words, the proposal for a law on accreditation would thus become a material and legal basis for carrying out accreditation operations in Serbia's territory, which is also required by the Serbian government, the European Parliament and the EU Council Regulation, no. 765/08, and in return, what have we been offered? Our accreditation body, in this case the accreditation body of Serbia, has been offered to receive full membership in the International Accreditation Organisation, so-called. European Accreditation Co-operation and International Laboratory Accreditation Co-operation. Now, gentlemen Ministers, I would ask you a question - is what they offer us enough compared to what we offer them, because we offer them a Serbian market with seven-eight million inhabitants, and they offer us some kind of membership from which Serbian citizens do not see that they can benefit greatly. Because once you adopt this law, and you will adopt it safely because you have a majority, along with this already famous Stabilisation and Association Agreement, there will be an additional collapse of the already collapsed Serbian economy and a further strengthening of the import lobby that has already created in this country a huge budget deficit of several billion euros, which means that citizens can't have any use for it, and only tycoons will have to fill the pockets anyway. Furthermore, these laws are quick to bring to an end and Serbian agriculture because surely the Ministry of Agriculture will favour its favorite importers when importing them, and they will create even more unemployed people because this will only bring new European owners and employers to Serbian businesses that will be even more cruel than those so far. If we add to all of this the fact that, in the area of standardisation, it is possible to adopt internal standards in certain areas, and this clearly points to the fact that the role of the Serbian state in all these events will be minimised to the limits and that more and more will be negotiated directly, i.e. contracts on the relationship between the producer, which is the main philosophy of those who are now in power in the Republic of Serbia, because they have long been subject to the principle of agreement. So this will only boost unfair competition that has long existed in Serbia and will always favour foreign businesses compared to domestic ones, which is what all of us and the citizens of Serbia need the least. As for the very proposal for accreditation, it can be said that it accredits two types of problems. The first is the accreditation process, and the second is the jurisdiction and functioning of the accreditation part of Serbia, which was founded in 2006 by the Serbian government's decision. It was also the same development path as the Serbian Standardisation Bureau, which I was talking about earlier. So, there were the institutions of the SCG common state, and then there was the other institution of the Serbian state, meaning, non-profit and independent, and this bill, which we are discussing today, brings about another transformation, and then it will become a public service, which means that it is precisely contributing to what I have said that the country's role in this area is becoming more and more minimized. Otherwise, accreditation itself is nothing more than a process carried out by the accreditation body of Serbia in order to determine whether the conformity assessment body meets or does not meet certain requirements, which implies, under this body, a legal person or part of a legal person seeking accreditation, i.e. that certain procedures are carried out, which are related to the examination, evaluation, certification and control. The authorities of the accreditation body of Serbia, we have heard several times already, are the board of directors, the supervisory board whose work is specified by the founding act, and the closer work of this institution is governed by the statute. The funds for the work of the accreditation body of Serbia are provided in three ways. The first and primary way is to collect services from those seeking accreditation, the second is from the Republic of Serbia's budget, although the proposing says the funds should go to members of the Republic of Serbia's accreditation body in various international organisations, while the third way of funding from other sources is in line with the law. When it comes to the accreditation process itself, we see that all mutual rights and obligations are regulated directly by the conclusion of a contract between the accreditation bodies of Serbia and the one seeking accreditation. It follows a decision on accreditation that can be positive or negative, and if it is positive, Serbia's accreditation body issues an accreditation certificate and ultimately gives a symbol of accreditation to which the conformity assessment body proves that it is actually accredited. A certain Board of Appeal is also foreseen under the accreditation body. In all these cases, the supervision of the work of these bodies shall be carried out by the ministry responsible for accreditation tasks. That would be brief on the work of this institution. Finally, I would say that from the very beginning the SRS has warned Serbian citizens of the devastating fact that laws like this have more harm than benefits, because only individuals can benefit. The citizens of Serbia will continue to live hard, and gentlemen from the ruling majority as well as individual politicians, if they sprayed anything, would do the same thing Milo Djukanovic did. Someone will go to NATO, someone to the IMF, someone to the World Bank. It is the citizens of Serbia who remain to live here and we must always make sure that their interests are first, not that on behalf of some European laws and goals we bring such laws that have more damage than benefits to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44199	Fifteen minutes and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and after him is the Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44200	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, nothing in life is an accident. Today is October 5th, and we have a joint debate on two draft laws that do not have much in common, but in a good way show the essence and importance of October 5th. Consumer Protection Act, Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade is qualified to present such a law. I am not going to say that Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic was not qualified for the law on accreditation, but as a follower of politics and ideology, Vojislav Seselj, I was directed to observe the reaction of the MPs, and above all by the doctor, when Mrs. Verica Radeta, as an authorised representative on behalf of the SRS, presented problems concerning the health status of our president. All doctors and many other MPs have been paying attention to this. I didn't, Mr. Milosavljevic, think of the Minister of Health, notice that you gave any meaning to that question. You are in charge of taking care of the health of every Serbian citizen, Vojislav Seselj's health, perhaps much more. For what? Perhaps because his health is being threatened in an unnatural way and you could have answered that question. We didn't expect that from you. Let Serbian citizens know what the government has to do with their health. When it comes to this legislation on accreditation, it in a fantasticly good way shows the essence of October 5th. He says - burn, cheat, hire, hurt. So, we had it on October 5, 2000, but this accreditation law, too, unequivocally and clearly, says the point is to hire new persons. If it is said in Article 4, accreditation is voluntary, there must be no such law. We are not against such a law, but I will try from the point of view of Serbian citizens to talk about this law, although it is very difficult from their perspective, no matter how we live, for sure that every MP lives better and with far less problems than the average citizen of Serbia, without talking about those who have no job and the possibility of being treated, they simply do not have and see no perspective with such a government, because we are distracting. Cour gum is not so controversial, but it is a controversial political gum that both the government and some political parties are trying to help this government take as long as possible and try to sell it to Serbian citizens. But surely, these are wise and smart people, they know what they're talking about, they'll recognize the day he's defined for it, they'll say what they have to say. The bodies of the accreditation body in Serbia, the board of directors, the supervisory board, are all bodies or bodies that involve new employment. In addition, Article 12 has been defined that the accreditation advice can be formed, as well as advisory bodies. What does that mean, that political parties here, before all those who are authorized to represent this law on behalf of the government, will employ members of their political party and thus provide a potentially larger number of voters? And in order to meet that, the government of the Republic of Serbia will be in debt, so we have a situation, because of the full hole in the budget, that we should be in charge of commercial banks with 250m euros, and we say that -- well, I'm a supporter of that, that's what the finance minister says, I'm in favour of borrowing from domestic banks, and that's better than world organisations. It is not good to be in charge of each other, Serbian citizens say, and on behalf of paying personal incomes for unnecessary jobs which, from day to day, especially on October 5th, is not quite an accident, this government is trying to affirm, establish or introduce new additional organs. And while we have such a situation, on the other hand, we have that the Institute of Accumulated Cereals in Kragujevac, because of their unpaid accounts, shuts down their electricity, shuts down the phone, and those who are employed there and is one of the reference institutions for strict grains, burns their diplomas, not in such a way that they want to waste their knowledge, but that they tell someone that they don't care enough about them, and that someone is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we see that from the very beginning they didn't have any serious intention of taking care of state institutions, unless they are strictly political and provide them with survival in power. Article 21 of the accreditation law is also interesting and says: "The accreditation body of Serbia can carry out the accreditation procedure based on the application of bodies to assess compliance from another country in the following cases: unless another state has established a national accreditation body. "So there are countries that don't have this body and then our accreditation body will be able to do that job for them. Your friends. Friends who are in the European Union do not support this government. They do not support Serbian citizens in terms of creating better opportunities, perspectives for a better life than they support, you heard a statement by the German Foreign Minister, who says, "I will now make sure that Serbia is admitted, that is, to move faster and faster towards the European path." You know when he said that? He said when he was absolutely sure that the government of the Republic of Serbia would support "the Parade of Pride", which is much more important to him than the jobs in Serbia, more important than how and how Serbian citizens live. And through this law, by reason of it, try to explain that we are bringing this law for reasons to improve the quality of our products. What quality products are you talking about when we import both white and black onions, tomatoes and carrots and everything we once produced, quality and good, where there are really chances of producing healthy food, we import it without talking about seriousness when it comes to the development of science and technology. If the Minister and Vice-President of the Government are trying to build monuments, building an institution called the Science Promotion Centre, to spend huge funds, not by providing auxiliary technical resources, providing housing conditions for people who have seriously engaged in science, but only to ensure that a number of members of political parties who have now been employed in power are better manipulated and ruled by this people. We think that this is the end, that the citizens of Serbia are not unrecognizable, but they are disappointed with the government's policy and their position is irrelevant, but at least have a little morality, so focus on those for whom it is here, which are citizens of Serbia. For such proposals, the SRS law can never be voted upon and will never accept such laws. The alternative to the citizens of Serbia are themselves, the SRS, the Russian Federation and other countries that are truly friends with our people and our country, and in no way are those who seek only what humiliates us, and none of it is seen in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44201	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill we are now talking about is presented as a law introducing key European directives on consumer protection and establishing a legal framework that allows for consumer protection in Serbia according to European standards and that, when adopted, there will really be nothing in which the average consumer in Serbia will be in a more unfavourable position than consumers in the EU. It has also been estimated that the law has exceptional importance for Serbia, not only because of the SAA, but by protecting citizens as consumers, will contribute to Serbia's further democratisation and speed up its EU membership. Recently, we have had the opportunity to hear from the first man of the Republic of Serbia that this could happen during 2015 or 2016 and that kind of forecast for Serbian citizens have been listening for ten years every day. Even so many years, so Serbia will be a full member, and so much so, that it will meet that and this condition, and when it meets that, this second one must remain the main condition and so on. It is better for Serbian citizens that, however, it is bad that the government in Serbia is constantly promising citizens someone better by joining the EU tomorrow, rather than working alone to ensure the improvement. As the situation in Serbia deteriorates for a year and a year, increasing unemployment after the privatisation process, which most of the Serbian people have failed, the government has constantly manipulated various promises. We are increasingly at the opportunity to hear when a law is passed: this is a law from the agenda of European laws that brings legislation in Serbia into line with EU legislation, and the reality in Serbia is very far from the EU. When it comes to the provisions of this law, one of the objections of the SRS concerns the protection of minors. What is guaranteed by this law, as one of the basic rights of consumers, is security, protection from goods and services that are dangerous to life, health, property, environment or goods whose possession or use is prohibited. When you set this as one of the basic consumer rights, then it is not clear why this law leaves out to be precise, as in the previous consumer protection law, defining what concerns milk, other food and drink for newborns and infants, as well as accessories for the use of these products that replace the natural diet and toys and products that are made of materials that can be harmful to children's health. The law which will cease to apply when the one we are discussing today is clearly and precisely in Article 8 of this provision, together with provisions relating to the sale and use of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products to minors. This new bill includes provisions relating to alcoholic beverages and tobacco, and these are provisions that, like all parents, I absolutely support and always demonstrate my willingness to say clearly when something is right. If in practice these provisions are shown to be applicable, it will indeed be something positive. Time will show whether it will be applicable or, as so far, at the door of the store where these products are sold, will stand as a decoration of the label on the ban on selling tobacco products to minors, and the sale is done without any checking and without any problems. Against these, provisions relating to toys and food and drinks for newborns and children have been left out. In no case can an excuse be that in May of last year a General Product Safety Act was passed. Such a provision that already existed in the law was to be incorporated into this one. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment proposing that these provisions be incorporated into the law, but we will discuss this in particular. In his opening address, the minister said he asked the MPs to be constructive in dealing with this law because it applies to all of us. The SRS parliamentary group has a proposal to put the responsibility for children's health first in this law because it applies to all our children. We all remember, the whole public was upset when results were published that gave control of the sanitary inspection at shops in Subotica, Bačka Topoli and Mali Ijoš. Lead paints, sharp edges and plywood that are being haba are the main reasons for the health of children with 13 samples of toys, the results of this control showed. Also, Saturday's inspection in control found about 800 toys without proper documentation, without a health certificate. Despite the markings found on toys that should guarantee that they are produced in EU countries, it is often not such a case. They are often produced in China and on the way to consumers are given an invalid label. Toys dangerous to children's health were also found in large trade chains. The Belgrade Institute for Mother and Child has been told to report over the year to thousands of young people who hurt themselves with toys or swallow some of them. Also, there are cases of injuries when children are self-inflicted by wrong toys during the game or are injured by another child in the game. There are also frequent occurrences of allergies caused by paint from toys. In particular, provisions relating to milk and other food and drink are important for newborns and infants. We all remember a few years ago because of a milk malfunction, there were cases and death sentences. Of course, it didn't happen in Serbia, it was somewhere in the white world where laws are respected. In Serbia, it is necessary in all ways to protect children's health. We are a small country where, unfortunately, fewer and fewer children are born. The ruling majority decided to conduct a joint search on these two laws, which means that time is divided in half, so I will bring the end. The first of January 2011 is close, there will be an opportunity to assess afterwards how this law will be applied in practice, whether consumers in Serbia will have greater rights but by 31 December of this year and what it will mean for our society in general now in conditions where in Serbia many cannot even exercise a basic right, the right to a man's life. If this law is better applied, it will unfortunately apply to one part of Serbia's citizens, to those who have something to spend, but it is good to mention the other part of Serbia, those who cannot buy the basic things needed for life, and they are growing. I know someone can say it's an area defined by other laws, but if someone wants something so modern and so European, there's no right to close their eyes to something so difficult that we face every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44203	Eight minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic, and after it was last reported on the list is Natasa Jovanovic's MP. The SRS parliamentary group is available for 25 minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44204	Ladies and gentlemen, the area of trade in Serbia has long not been properly regulated and sufficient control and order has not been established in this area when it comes to production, and when it comes to trade and when it comes to imports and exports. As for the production and products Serbia imports, it is certain that there have been a lot of serious problems in the past and that there have been adverse consequences. Serbia has imported and today imports agricultural and other food products it has in its country and can produce in sufficient quantities for the population of the Republic of Serbia and also for export. What is dramatic, difficult and unacceptable is that goods not for human use are imported from the EU and not subject to sufficient customs and other technological control. In the past, we have had cases of Serbia importing huge quantities of all kinds of meat and meat for processing. This meat that Serbia has imported, and today there are cases of importing, is mostly meat from EU freezers that can primarily be qualified and estimated to be waste, not quality food that needs to be placed on the market in the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is a country of agrarians, a country where agricultural products are primarily produced, meat products and Serbia can export a huge amount of these agricultural products, especially when it comes to cereals, fruit and vegetables, and you can imagine that we imported in 2008 and carrots, and Serbia can produce carrots for Europe as a whole. This law has not been sufficiently disabled and here they had to be offered more severe sanctions. You of the Department of Commerce may laugh freely, but in any case this is not in your favor. I mean no hair, I apologize, but he's been grinning all day, Madam President. I don't think he's taking the place of Pretty Brenna, so he's playing some beauty for us here, but he should still have the decency of all of you being here at the table and having the chair, and of the gentlemen of the Ministry. I would ask him to have patience and listen to the people's messengers because he has come to account for the MPs, not in such a way as to disdain us. What is still very important is that everything and everything is imported into this country, goods of poor quality, goods that have not provided a declaration of duration and warranty. You can see for yourself today to enter any store and you will see that you will encounter products, the question is whether they have a declaration, whether there is a technique and other warranty products. What happens, gentlemen of the Ministry, when consumers call on the phone your coll-center who are complaining about the quality and warranty of the purchased goods? Consumers are not protected. You don't keep enough records. First, you did not provide a recording of phone calls and calls, to save it as evidence and to carry out the procedure and that the citizen who said – I bought the refrigerator or bought that and that product, no guarantee, I was promised a guarantee, I contacted the seller and the seller said – we have no obligation to you, although the man answered within three months, and the deadline is reportedly in some paper issued by the seller 24 months. So people need to know who to turn to. When they turn around, you have to make sure you carry out the procedure. The one who broke the law must be sanctioned. He can't be spared and only end up on that, someone doubled the price, someone refused to issue the bill, someone refused to admit the malfunction or the shortcomings in the moving things citizens buy. These are serious problems. This ministry, through competent inspections, believes it can oppose and impose order in this area. Besides, Mr. Minister, you must take steps to prevent this false advertising. Remember how some doctors and drug manufacturers acted when all the bells in the Republic of Serbia and in the printed and electronic media claimed to have medicines, that the only cures were to save the lives of Serbian citizens. These medicines, as with vaccines, are of suspicious origin and should be prevented. You see the newspaper every day and the Consumer Council reacts. You also have the "Politics" supplement that has come out in which they are dissatisfied, above all, consumers and they appeal to deception through advertising by individual traders and manufacturers. You'll see what the Maxie company says and others say, as they advertise. In this way, they deceive those citizens who do not have enough intelligence, nor have enough opportunities to verify that these goods are worth as much as they are paid. I've studied crime and crime, and I can tell you that pickpockets are the most intelligent criminals. How? He looks into your eyes, talks to you, but his hand is already in your pocket and he's searching you, taking your pockets. You see, it's now the same case with different stores, with various manipulations, which is a serious crime. He's a serious criminal of general proportions. The public is also very interested, because there is no citizen in Serbia who is not interested in being sure and has legal certainty to buy a certain thing and that the manufacturer has informed him of the hidden intentions of certain things. That's also very important. I'll tell you, although the law here mentions what the consumer is and what the goods are, I'll tell you that in Pančev, a trade organization, a private company appeared, a private foreign company called Strabag, which the local government does not prevent from building an asphalt base of monastery in the populated town of Vojlovica and in the very town of Vojlovica, from selling asphalt. So, to sell asphalt to buyers who buy, whether it's legal or physical, it doesn't matter. Interestingly, the local government first rejected a request for a permit to build another additional base, although the ministry has made some efforts, I must say, when it comes to "Azotara", when it comes to Petrochemy and when it comes to the Refinery. When pollution began to decrease, now a privateer appeared, where more prized, above all, his financial result and his material uses, than protecting the citizens of Pancheva, the citizens of Vojlovica, and there are citizens where you build this asphalt base that is supposed to sell asphalt. There live 10,000 citizens of Slovakia, Hungary and Serbs. Even Pancheva's extra has one dangerous evil. Now there was the "Vojvodnaput" in that combination, some assessors and researchers from Belgrade, not Pancheva, because local administrations in Pancheva celebrated, which was positive. However, I must remind you, in this case the LDP has intervened and, please, the LDP committees have stood behind it in the city assembly where I am a councilman. They support and insist that in that location, therefore, another dangerous polluter is additionally built on the site, and that this population living in the municipality is really being additionally poisoned, and the largest number of cancers in Serbia per capita and in relation to cities and municipalities is actually Pančevo. That is why I have sent a parliamentary question to Mr Dulic to take all necessary steps with his expert team to prevent such construction and to prevent such trade, because it is not in the interest of the citizens of Vojlovica or Pancheva. She's, first of all, the greatest evil, and that's going to bring Panchev a lot of trouble. It's going to be a store, because it's coming under the influence of this law. Therefore, an interestingly divided commission that worked. There were two for, two against, but it passed again and came before a second-degree commission that approved it. Therefore, Mr. Milosavljevic, you are here today, so transfer to the competent resolution minister, let him do something for himself, he can because he has rights, and he has an obligation to do something to prevent another dangerous contaminant from being built in Panchev. Please, a hundred meters away from the Vojlovic monastery, the oldest in Vojvodina. Tito was building beside the monasteries of this refinery plant, so here he is, helping, because he is participating in the local government as much as he has in the local community along with others, so in the advice of the local community gave consent and (President: Please return to the agenda point. The SRS's committees strongly oppose, and I apologize, Madam Vice President. The SRS organizes a Sunday at 11pm rally, i.e. And invite the citizens of Vojlovica to stand up and prevent, to ensure the health of our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44205	Fourteen minutes and 15 seconds of the group's time spent. I ask all MPs to adhere to article 106, i.e. the obligation to speak on the agenda. This, with a warning, MP Petar Jojic committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a demeaning of the Assembly's reputation. Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44206	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the law I will most talk about during this discussion and in the final roundup of two points – the law on accreditation and consumer protection. Therefore, the consumer protection law has caused major interference and public unrest. The minister himself faces the fact that the Consumer Protection Association is dissatisfied with this proposal. But as someone wrote the other day in some daily newspaper, in one circulation daily, MPs are consumers. I will tell you, first of all, as a consumer and as a representative of the people. On the basis of not only the comments of the Consumers' Association, which I have not met as a member of the Committee or as an MP, but I have received in writing the form of their observations, I will speak to you on the basis of the demands of the citizens from the environment from which I come and at the end of the day, the people who are damaged by the trade process. What is all that is wrong with this law and how could it be done in a better way in order to really protect people, if that was your intention, your consumers? First of all, we have to say that this Lex specialis takes over certain provisions of many of the laws of crime that are in force in the country. On the other hand, it does not go into the key area, which is our basic observation, which is the Consumer Credit Directive, i.e. loans in general, supposedly by justifying yourself, that your statements were, above all, that the NBS is completely autonomous in determining the banking and financial sectors, which in one part of the Constitution of Serbia is, but you then got involved further recklessly, I would say, and in that statement, you added to that provision of the Constitution that is correct, which is not true, justifying why you did not put the Consumer Credit Directive. You said -- well, you can't have the Ministry of Trade, the Government of Serbia and this law on itself taking responsibility for the excessive borrowing of people at all, as if you don't know about an explicit provision respected by every bank or every provider of that kind of service. When you are also running for a consumer card from a chain of markets, some colleagues talked about it yesterday, you have to add a copy from a credit card that clearly says that you can't borrow more than 40% of what your average incomes are. That of almost 40%, unfortunately, because of the fact that the NB saw or the new governor, Mr. Soskic, that the people are too in debt and that he has dramatically jumped the euro course, i.e. that he has devalued the dinar, and unfortunately in real life, the devaluation is much bigger than the one that shows up, then they said, uh, the war of credit with this debt-indebted Serbian citizen, and by the head of the population it is at least 700 euros, then it is possible for that debt to go to 40%. Rest assured, I don't know if you, or any of you present, have ever applied for that kind of consumer card to any of the supermarket chains or consortiums, will not approve it if you have one, and unfortunately many Serbian citizens are over-indebted and over 30% and to the limit, up to 40%. What do we Serbian radicals resent besides this fundamental remark? This is the law in many parts of the unaccounted for, and if you had the intention to take over the provisions of some other areas that you regulate, first of all, the provision of services in the field of electricity, or all other providers of services that are of general importance and public consumption, you should have done so better in accordance with the law, first of all, on electricity and in accordance with the law on the tariff system or the provisions of the tariff system regulation, since it is published in the "Official Messenger" and established on the proposal of the Agency by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, especially in the field of tourism business, where you unspecifiedly wanted to protect any potential tourist or those who use services in the field of tourism, so we wrote over 60 amendments to this law which has 155 members. In the day when we discuss details, we will clearly explain why you made them, i.e. the proposal for a law shows such a mistake that is not reckless but essential, that I am not talking about the technical and ill-written and distorted Serbian language that does not exist. Now and in this new manual of interpretation of the Serbian language that Mrs. Komic has, and I will probably soon come into possession of this dictionary, neither Shipka nor Klein know the terms you put in this law, so I was surprised how possible it is, and especially because you have defined contractual obligations between service providers and consumers in writing. Of course it has to be in writing, but it's certainly just written form. As for the very promotion of this law, it did not start with you, Mr Milosavljevic, but from Boris Tadic several months earlier, and that is now unfortunately the custom in Serbia, and that is why we were defeated and thrown on our knees, which is why we are being kidnapped by KIM, which is why the Serbian economy is being destroyed, so we have so many poor, so the Serbian peasant is beheaded, which is what Master Zivanovic was talking about. So various commissioners began to come to Serbia. I see today, my colleague Markovic tells me, as part of the interparliamentary meeting here again, this anti-Serb and the largest of the possible Serbs, Kacin, appeared again at the House of National Assembly, so did Mrs Kuneva, who is the European commissioner, which is probably popular to potential October 5th, today it is 10 years since that coup you tried and unfortunately managed to implement with the help of the State Department, she came to Serbia and spoke before you with Boris Tadic about the bill. I'm really going to have to, that's a deep thought and to let the citizens of Serbia hear that the president of Serbia, who can't speak here now, interprets this law, quote what the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, said on this bill. He said -- by talking to Commissioner Kunev, who came from Europe to tell us that we should protect consumers in Serbia, he said, we came to a simple argument and the conclusion that when a citizen understands the nature of his account and his relationship with the one who set up his account, knows what he pays and how to protect his interest and when the state helps him, he is protected and secure in the society he lives in. It is truly amazing that the President of the Republic, who also has a office that allegedly helps citizens in need, and I hear that they are buried with various notions, makes such a statement as if honey and milk flow in Serbia, as if he does not know that people are really buried in accounts and that today, not as in Zivkovic's time, Mr Krasic knows, is not burning in a barrel in the centre of Nisa, but simply holding them and hoarding them in the house, and they have no place to pay them from. Simply, if the president of the state has no fundamental link to reality and like us, Serbian radicals, does not go into the people to see their real torments and to look at the structure of that account, then it is amazing that he can make these statements. Now if I asked him or any of us if he knew what the electricity bill contains, which Mr. Milosavljevic I'm sure, he knows, the health minister doesn't need to know, he wouldn't know it's growing. In an electric energy account if there is no help, as I have a co-worker in Kragujevac, who is one of the managers for the plan and analysis of Elektro Šumadi, Kragujevac, Mr. Slobodan Divjak, I would not be able to learn what it says, or a growing electricity bill, from which you are a group of tariffs, which is counter-constitutional, of how much the power you are engaged and how it is calculated by some way of multiplication of accounts, how it can only be done by Electrodistribution, through the hidden work that every citizen of Serbia pays for the remont of electrodistributive plants. Excuse me, gentlemen of the DOS, haven't you committed over 600m euros to Germany's power plant repair bank in Serbia in these ten years? Why is it that a poor Serbian citizen, who is being pushed by such an account, or by Elektro-distribution, is not protected from such bribery and manipulations as in "Serbiagas", why he must seek help on the other side, because the state is not prepared to make it possible for him. This law certainly doesn't do that. We had a case last year that Mr. Bajatovic, who is the director of "Srbiagas" before the end of last year, said that "Srbigas" is operating with 107m euros in losses and that it will have to be overrun at the expense of consumers. In what normal country, when you are already referring to these democratic and civilizational values, should the consumer pay for someone's loss? It exists only in Serbia, but it is the manner of the local self-government unit. In Kragujevac, we have, in every city in Serbia, a public company that operates with losses, so when the end of the year comes, then those funds in the budget of local self-government that are not distributed -- let's cover the youth center, let's say, that's the case with me, but mostly all sports centres have and deal with losses, let's do this or that. Even happening in some towns in Serbia, here are the witnesses of fellow Serbian radicals, that markets that need to be profitable to do business or passenger transport companies (President: 11 minutes). It's used time. ) have to cover it from some other sources. I think Mr. Jojic used it, Mrs. Comic, if he doesn't cheat on me for 15 minutes, and you said we have 35, so I have another 10 minutes at my disposal. (President: It was 25 minutes, 14 minutes was used by Petar Jojic. ) However, whenever the day is here, let me finish, to consider in particular, if I knew more I would focus on the messages sent by Serbian people's friends, such as Mr. Rabel, a university professor from Germany, who says that the EU even great Germany, which finance this bureaucratic system, destroys, we will in the course of reviewing amendments to any type of harmonisation of the law with the EU, and we are against Serbia's entry into it explicitly, to explain in a detailed way through examples from the real life of Serbian citizens that neither you nor Boris Tadic see.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44207	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Please sign up who wants a word. Minister Milosavljevic, just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me say that the law on accreditation is a summary and clear, practical law, understandable without the necessary professional knowledge, there are 27 members and mentioning a few of the things mentioned in the discussion, with thanks for the inspiring and creative incentives during your discussion that were present in most of the presentations. So is this the quality law? It's not. It's a law that regulates bodies and laboratories that control quality. Is this law favoring and most of its uses for import products? No, I don't. It concerns both import and domestic. It is precisely more and more important for domestics, because the recognition of the quality and standards that domestic products and services meet the precondition for their competitiveness in foreign markets. Let me remind you, this is the fourth in a series of laws that surrounds the quality of products and services infrastructure, in addition to the laws that you have already adopted, standardisation, technical regulations and metrology. Practically its adoption will create preconditions for removing technical barriers in trade and ensuring the safety of products and services, which has a positive impact on the preservation of health and disease prevention. As you can see, we all contribute together to keeping health policy in all policies, and that is unusually significant. That's where I could end up. However, I owe a few more answers and would not have said this much if there had been no comment during the discussion of some MPs on the health status of the UN tribunal indictees. Never, when there was a reason and cause, has the Ministry of Health been avoided in accordance with legal authority. The health ministry received no memo, no notice, no inquiry from any political party, any institution in the country, except for calling for a meeting of the Assembly Committee on Health and Family yesterday at 1200 hours, and this was the reason to request written information from the UN Council on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal on whether there is a fact that I need to know about the health situation of the Hague indictees. There were talks here on the quality of medicines and vaccines on the Serbian market. I would just like to remind you that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources is an institution that has existed in Serbia since 2004, because the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has been adopted in this assembly. First, in 2004, and recently this year, a new law was passed and according to those regulations if someone were to receive Serbia in the EU tomorrow, none of the regulations would have to be amended, as they are fully adapted to high standards that ensure that Serbia's Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of 53 countries, and so many are in the World Health Organization's European region, highly ranked in 10 best agencies. Therefore, trust in the professionalism of people who check both medicines and vaccines in the agency. It was about the quality of the health system. I wouldn't abuse your time, but I'd like to say that individual examples and individual experiences are always unusually significant and important, but it's also important to have the width of the view. If we're talking about objectivity, then you're giving me an opportunity to remind you that in February of this year on the site of one of the three most read lists in this country, you can check, the World Economic Summit ranked 133 countries, along with experts from the World Bank. Serbia is in the health care system in the top 46th place. There is no other subsystem of the Republic of Serbia that is ranked so high. Let me say that together we can all be proud of more than 100,000 healthcare workers, who in the majority of their jobs work committed, sacrificed, persistent and ensure that Serbia's health system is ranked from 133 countries in 46th place. Thank you for the attention you've heard and this exposure and the initial one. Thank you for understanding that you support the majority of the summary, clear, practical and necessary accreditation law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44209	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44210	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened with attention to all the discussions with my associates and practically two objections to the law on the protection of consumers from the discussion could be imposed. The first is – consumer loans, i.e. the area of financial services, which is conditionally out of this law. Once again, I want to repeat that the NBS agreement is such that through the law on the protection of financial services users, which will be completed in October will provide better, more comprehensive, and more complex protection of financial services users. Not just consumer loans. The very fact that this law should be found before you by the end of this year, which means that it should enter into force on 1 January next year, says that both the consumer credit segment and the total financial services will be, at the same time as the consumer protection law, practically to the benefit of Serbian citizens, both credit users, consumers and other financial services. By entering into force of this law, we hope for this more comprehensive and better law. On this basis, consumers in Serbia will not be damaged. The second topic also mentioned here is whether this is a law on consumer protection and rights or a law that should protect, as some respected MPs have said, achieved or achieved monopolies, traders, producers, market participants. There's no dilemma, this is a consumer protection law. Not even the law on the wishes of the association, associations and consumer organisations, but, above all, the consumer rights law as an individual, as a citizen, as a market participant. That is why I also said in the introduction that the very focus of this law is a simple, small, unprotected consumer, who gets, practically, more rights, all the rights that consumers have in EU countries. There were some petty beliefs of misunderstanding. Not that it was anything else, for example, the esteemed vice president, Mrs Jovanovic, mentioned the credit bureau and the fact that, in practice, credit bureaus control borrowing. It is possible to provide a consumer loan and to provide payment for delayed payments, to obtain and that is the part that can remain outside the credit bureau, as is possible for manufacturing, commercial, service organisations, businesses, companies to hire intermediaries who would offer consumer credit to citizens. It was precisely one of the reasons why the National Bank insisted that the segment be covered by a special law. If I didn't mention in particular that the National Bank of Serbia also has, I would say, a sovereign authority on credit-money policy. Also, Mrs Jovanovic mentioned that there may be too much harmonisation. It is true that this law bears this element of harmonisation with EU law and with regulation in the field of consumer protection, but I repeat again, first of all, because of the interests of Serbian citizens, with this harmonisation, the primary interest was that consumers in Serbia have the same rights as consumers in the EU have at the beginning of the application of this law. There were some, again, I'd say vagueness or, perhaps, inaccurate reading of the law. There is no Ms. Milica Vojic Markovic from the DSS. She probably absorbed or skipped that there was a directive on unfair business, as she said in her comment that the EU's unfair business practice directive was not incorporated into this law. It's embedded, but it's translated differently. It's a different name. It's a little more precise, and it's just, in chapter three, members from 19 to 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44211	I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Accreditation and on the Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act. I'm setting a break of one hour. The work continues in 15.50 minutes by opening the debate on the principle of a joint review of the draft laws which are next on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work, the minister is on his way to the Assembly, but because of the traffic jam, I think he'll be here most in ten or fifteen minutes, but that's just the time I'm going to read these opening remarks. If it doesn't get to the point where we start talking fundamentally about the law, we'll agree whether I'll take a break or we'll continue to work. So, I have a notice that he'll be here by 4:15, it's crowded, so we can just get going. We move on to a common principle search of the 4th and 5th points of the agenda: – Proposal for an Air Traffic Law and a proposal for a Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in the light of the joint principled search of the fourth and fifth points of the agenda, the draft air traffic law and the proposal for a law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister for Infrastructure, I have also called for the sittings to attend: Slavoljub Vukicevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Miodrag Miljkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure Pavle Galić, Assistant Minister of Infrastructure Vanja Škobić, Secretary of the Aviation Control Agency and Nebojsa Starcevic, Director of the Directorate for Civil Aviation. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 4 and 5, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Plus parliamentary group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Siniša Stamenković, MP of the PUPS; MP Jasmina Milosevic, MP of the SPS-JS; MP Zoran Shami, MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP Miljan Rangelović, MP group G17 plus; MP Momir Marković, SRS MP, MP Ivan Jovanovic, MP for European Serbia and National MP Kenan Hajdarevic, LDP parliamentary group. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft air traffic law and the draft law on navigation and ports on internal waters. Do you accept that we start work or do I set a break? You want a break? Ten minutes tops. Here, I'm taking a 15-minute break. [[After break – 16.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your patience. The minister is truly objectively prevented from arriving on time. Thank you for understanding. We will take advantage of the opportunity to participate very intensively in the dialogue with him. I give my word to Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44214	I'm sorry, you found me in Subotic, so thank you for tolerateing me. I'm amazed really, 190 amendments to the Air Traffic Act. Dear Members, it is my honor, as always, to be in this high house, especially when it comes to such important laws as these two laws we are proposing today on behalf of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, the Air Traffic Act and the Ports Act. I am convinced that by your contribution you will certainly improve those laws. We don't plead that they're the best, so please, and when I say there are 190 amendments, that's why I'm proud, go ahead, just suggest and I guess we'll make a deal. So, the area of air traffic in the Republic of Serbia is currently governed by the Air Traffic Act, which was adopted in 1998 and until the entry into force of the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, was within the jurisdiction of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Since the entry into force of the law to this day has been a full twelve years, and given the speed of change in the legal regulation of air traffic in the world and in our country, it is clear that the applicable law governing the area of air traffic has become completely obsolete and that it limits the rapid development of this traffic in the Republic of Serbia. The draft air traffic law will provide conditions for achieving the constitutional competence of the Republic of Serbia in the field of aviation, as well as conditions for air traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in force in EU countries, which means respect and application of the widest standards of safety and safety of passengers' lives. During the preparation of the draft law, EU institutions, whose air traffic experts provided observations, proposals and suggestions on working versions of the draft law, were consulted. The vast majority of these proposals and suggestions have been accepted and entered into the text of the draft law, thus ensuring the broadest possible compliance in the text of the bill with EU regulations. The application of this law will create assumptions for full harmonisation of national legislation with EU rules, which is a key priority in the EU accession process. It is a good basis for successful inclusion in European and global aviation integration processes, as well as for the introduction and application of international air standards, regulations and technical rules and the adoption of international aviation practice, as guarantees for achieving the highest standards of safety and air security in the Republic of Serbia. The draft law regulates all aspects of air traffic, which includes the regulation of air navigation and air traffic rules: provisions relating to airports and airport services, air navigation and air traffic rules, rules relating to air personnel, noise protection and exhaust emissions, accident procedures and more serious air accidents, as well as provisions governing air traffic security. In addition to this, the authority of the Republic of Serbia acting in the air will be prescribed and their powers will be specified, in particular the powers to adopt sublegal and other acts which will fully regulate the area of air traffic in our country. Consistent application of the law is ensured by the regulation of large-scale criminal provisions allowing the punishment of all air traffic operators in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for breach of the material provisions of this law. The proposal for laws on navigation and ports on internal waters; the reason for the adoption of this law on navigation and ports on internal waters is the introduction of appropriate sources of EU law into domestic legislation, thus achieving full compliance with the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia with EU legislation in the area of internal water transport. The law implements eight directives, regulations and EU statements in domestic legislation, taking into account resolutions, agreements, decisions and recommendations made by the Danube Commission, the UN Economic Commission for Europe and the Sava Commission. In principle, the law can be divided into two parts. In the first part, the matter relating to the safety of navigation is arranged: waterways and their technical maintenance, vessels and their navigation capacity, the crew of the port captain, and the issues of new technologies affecting the safety of navigation, such as river irigation systems, RIS, and ship traffic management services, VTS. It is important to point out that the law introduces domestic legislation and the EU regulation that abolishs cabotage for vessels that hold the flag of one of the EU countries, by delaying the application of this provision to full EU membership in transitional and final provisions. In addition to these issues, the status issues of institutions whose activity is closely related to the safety of navigation, namely: the Waterway Directorate, which retains the status of a special organisation for technical maintenance of waterways, as current federal and public institutions, the Yugoslav Register of Inland Navigation Ships, Jugorgistar, which is established by law as a management for the identification of ship's navigation capabilities, as an authority within the Ministry of Infrastructure. In the second part of the law, the issue of ports and ports is regulated. The legal status of ports and ports in the Republic of Serbia has been regulated in line with a modern approach to port management, which has been widely accepted in the world today and defined in a statement on the 2007 European port policy. The law is based on the basic principle that ports and ports are good for general interest and that, as such, their port areas and land are located in public property. This results in a distinction in the management of public-law, i.e. administrative management of ports carried out through the Port Management Agency and ports to be established by the Government and the management of commercial port operations, which is left to port operators in the private sector as entities holding commercial activities in the port. Inside the port is clearly defined the difference between port infrastructures (operial shores, Key walls, traffic, railways and the like), which is in public property, and port superstructures, cranes, cranes, boarding, landing of passengers in the administrative building and the like, which may be in private property. It should also be pointed out that, in each particular case, it will determine what was the subject of property transformation in relation to port infrastructure and if something was covered by the documentation on the basis of which the property transformation was carried out, property rights acquired will be respected. Further, efforts have been made to make personal relations related to ports and port areas of offices, taking into account the provisions of the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on concessions, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Draft Law on Public Property and other property-law rights of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Region and the unit of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44215	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Does the rapporteur and chairman of the Transport and Connections Committee, Mr Velimir Ilic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44216	Dear President, dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had an extremely good meeting on the Committee. We are very sorry that the minister was prevented from coming, were his state secretaries and deputies, assistants. We had one problem, because I know in my time we wrote this law on air traffic and it was an excellent law and it was ready for parliament. However, flight control wanted some items to be changed in the law, and that law was subsequently amended from the EU framework, so that we came into a very awkward and difficult situation for the law, in principle, which today the minister defends against MPs, to have 41 amendments to the government, which, through those amendments, tried to bring it into line with EU legislation. It's the first time in the history of parliamentaryism, I don't think in this high house there's ever been a single law that shows up to the government's amendment in so many numbers. This is a signal that in air traffic companies and institutions that figure out do not have co-operation, that human relations are extremely bad and that their mutual co-operation is extremely bad because they all asked for certain benefits to be incorporated into the law for themselves, especially flight control. To them, they do their job well, but they want to be a cap and after receiving a large 70m-euro loan, they took one position, they wanted one law that was in line with the EU to be fully implemented from the framework, and we know that flight control is a unique system in Europe and that at all, aviation is a unique system operating in the European sky and that now the Open Sky law comes into force over Europe and so on. So then I made a proposal that was very good, that the government would withdraw this law, install all these amendments into the law, bring back and deliver to this Parliament, where there would be one serious law, where there would be no changes and changes, such as this shipping law. The port law is in line with the EU and it is now a serious law, and there is really nothing special about this law. There will be amendments, there will be some proposals, but the law is in line and in principle one law that we will surely have reason to support because it is in line with the EU. This is how we're putting the minister in a difficult situation. He now defends the law in principle, on which he will then propose 41 points to change minors through amendments. So this is a very awkward position for both the Minister and the Government and all of us. Now we're going to have a debate about something, and we know that we're going to change all that later in the discussion of details and completely change certain members. It could have been in one phone session just to accept the amendment, to go back and be a serious law, which we would have taken very seriously here. That's why there are 190 amendments and that's why there are all these problems, and that's why we've also brought the minister into a very unpleasant position, and that's why the Committee has also proposed that after this session we hold a meeting of the Committee with the directors of these institutions and public companies that figure. Not every lice can be oatmeal. Serbia's airspace is unique. The directorate is an Air Force cap and air traffic and the Directorate provides certain permits, consent and controls and everything else. Flight control takes its part of the job, but it can't be above the Directorate, it can't take over the authority of other institutions and all this leads to that in JAT at the airport, in flight control, in the Directorate, in JAT tech not some good relationship, harmonised relations, because everyone wanted to ultimatically install into this law some solutions that suit it. The law must be unique and bring this all into one unique good position. Therefore, it would be my suggestion that this first part of the air traffic law should be withdrawn, that only amendments be incorporated, that it should be returned to parliament and that we should adopt it immediately in one serious procedure. This is not serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44217	Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word and who wants to sign up? National MP Siniša Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of fellow Members, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the minister said today, is discussing two extremely important technical laws. The first is the draft air traffic law, and the second is the proposal for a law on navigation and ports on internal waters. The adoption of air traffic law finally creates all assumptions for the full harmonisation of national legislation and EU rules, as well as world rules that unconditionally regulate the issue of air traffic across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with respect and application of the highest standards of security and security, particularly of people, technical means and goods in air traffic. This law finally regulates the issue of legal position, responsibility and competence of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. The Directorate shall become an agency with a clear prescribed work of competence and authority. We think it's a good solution. The evaluation of the PUPS parliamentary group is that all the proposed solutions in this bill were created as a regular expression of the compliance of our legal order with the generalised international obligations imposed by the Convention on International Civil Aviation and by the International Convention on Co-operation in the field of air navigation security, etc. Eurocontrol, since December 1960, as well as any other international acts adopted to this day. For the first time, functional separation of air navigation service providers from legal regulators is formalised, which is very important, by setting up the national control body of the Republic of Serbia in air navigation. We think conditions are being created to finally reorganise the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, by defining everything so-called. functional blocks. In its solutions, the law will certainly create conditions to improve the quality of services, to increase the number of service operations at our airports, to increase the battle of overruns in Serbia's airspace, and to strengthen the overall air traffic management system. Serbia certainly enters the ranks of countries where the service capacity and the number of passengers each year increases by 6 to 10%. Such an increase rate must be supported by the state, taking into account, above all, all measures to improve our professional potential and technical systems, reduce risks and improve the service. We are aware of the fact that this law has caused polemic tones in the professional and social public, which has been discussed by the chairman of the board, and all because of the individual solutions to which the air unions have responded, as well as the majority of the association of professional and auxiliary personnel working in air traffic. A number of amendments have been tabled that are closer to regulating a large number of technical issues, which we will support in the further debate. Parts of the device and equipment are technical terms that define certain technical conditions which contain the aircraft and which must be applied in all European and world standards. There's no dilemma. The law brings certain annexes of the 2003 Convention on International Civil Aviation closer into line with the European Parliament and Council of Europe directives. Our task is to install these harmonised technical conditions into the air traffic law, and then to create through the Directorates all the conditions for them to be actually and applied and respected. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that the national civil aviation security programme, which is to be done, according to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, must be adopted and fully in line with European and world standards in order to improve the acceptable level of security in Serbia's civil aviation. We also agree that the obligation to set up a security management system, which is a mandatory part of the management manual, must be respected with the agreement of the Air Traffic Directorate. We agree to support the effort to define a functional air traffic block as a space based on operational requirements, which are established regardless of national borders, in which the provision of air navigation services and all functions are optimally integrated into unique solutions. The territory of the former Yugoslavia, and thus Serbia's territory, must be harmonised as part of a framework for the creation of a single European sky, to which Serbia has committed by confirming the ECCA agreement. We support the Minister's insistence that, from the point of view of the security of the Air Force of the Forbidden Zone, the conditioned zones and the dangerous zones are determined by the Minister's solution, not by the government's solution, as so far. The PUPS Group considers that, when determining the competence of the Republic hydrometeorological institution and its characteristics as a special organisation, it should be designated as the authority of the state administration responsible for weather conditions and air meteorological conditions and additional precautions should be established, with the technical and special act required to work closely with the World Hydrometeorological Organisation. A certificate for the provision of air meteorological conditions can only be obtained by the Republic hydrometeorological institute if it meets the prescribed technical and organisational conditions, which must be confirmed by the international community. In the process of public debate on air traffic law, the PUPS Group carried out a number of consultations with associations and professional alliances, as well as with professional and technical persons responsible for air traffic security, and at their request. We have paid particular attention to the most important issue of air traffic, which is the safety of passengers and personnel. We've tried to solve the dilemma regarding flight and non-flying staff status with several amendments, as we can see from various political options. We are in favour of recognising the status of flight attendants and particularly recognising their responsibility and participation in the safety of passengers, crews and aircraft. We note that cabin staff duties are equally related to both the service and the safety of air traffic. Cabin personnel pre-prepared to the platform, before the passengers enter, check crew readiness, equipment, fire equipment, oxygen equipment and also evacuation equipment, as well as airship exits and technical correctness of the passenger cabin. Flight attendants are carrying out security controls before and after the passengers enter the passenger cabin. It prepares them upon entering the passenger plane for flight and introduces them to emergency exits and security procedures. After closing the cockpit during the flight, cabin staff shall assume all responsibility for passenger and passenger cabin safety at all stages of the flight. In view of all obligations and responsibilities for participation in passenger safety, crews of aircraft and goods, it is logical to recognise the status of cabin staff, or vice versa, and what EU requirements are regulated and explicitly requested. In the debate in particular, which will follow this debate in principle, we will, in addition to amendments submitted by other political options, carry out unquestionably proof that the status of flight and cabin staff in general must be equalised and professionally, especially in the light of that over a thousand people in other airlines are working in Serbia, i.e. from Serbia, then a prerequisite must be created for them to be equal with the other personnel involved in the flight. When a particular amendment is accepted in the debate, we will support this position, as well as this air traffic law in general. The law on sailing and ports on internal waters is also a law that has now completely ceased to apply after the fall of the former Yugoslavia. Practically, this new law would only now assume the responsibilities and responsibilities of all areas of water traffic on internal and international river routes passing through Serbia. The rule of law and the legal technique so far in the field of navigation is replaced by a new nomotechnic which implies a public-law and private-law part. With the proposal for this law, we finally adopt the provisions of international conventions adopted under the auspices of the UNECE, which we must respect as much as Austria, Hungary, Bulgaria and Croatia and other Danube countries. The bill definitely sets out Serbia's waterways, as well as the application of customs in internal navigation on those roads. The PUPS parliamentary group also discussed certain professional alliances, professional people engaged in sailing and considered that the provisions on the safety of navigation covered all conditions, all general and technical rules and criteria that must be met by vessels and crew during navigation. There can't be any complaints. There can't be any subsequent arrangements. These provisions well define waterways, ports, docks and docks, as well as other conditions for safe sailing. We believe that well-defined authorities are responsible for navigation security tasks, in terms of responsibility and in terms of jurisdiction. Short-term, medium-term and long-term road development plans, ports and ports, as well as the scope of cost planning for these purposes, shall properly address the basic conditions for the development of water traffic which shall be included in the latest Danube initiative. The categorisation of waterways, from the point of view of the international, interstate and national navigation regime, and the authorities that determine this, along with navigation security facilities, are good technical solutions for general and individual safety in navigation. Sailing and piloting, as well as establishing the right to sail for domestic and foreign vessels, and the regime for all our waterways have settled all issues in accordance with the general standards. For the first time, the law prevents pollution from vessels by international standards and is closer to regulating the issues of search, rescue and extraction of immersed things and objects. This law paves the way for the extraction of more than 175 submerged ships immersed in Vienna between our two most important hydropower and navigation facilities, from Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria, next to Prahov, Radojevac, Fast Palanka, Negotina to Kladov. The Law on navigation and ports on internal waters proposes to regulate all matters related to the ship itself and the crew itself, as well as to facilities that must be removed. The draft law lays down the rule of the ship's capacity to sail and technical surveillance over it. We think it's a good thing we're introducing a ship's navigational capabilities management or, as you used to call it, Jugorgistar. The law correctly regulates the status of the crew of ships of internal navigation and defines that those persons are on board for the performance of operations on board and entered in the list of crew members. In particular, it shall be regulated to determine the minimum number of crew members required for safe navigation, as well as the obligation to have the appropriate powers to carry out operations on board, and in particular how to obtain the title of the relevant professional obligations and examinations and the right to obtain a shipping book without which navigation cannot be carried out, as a kind of passport. The rights to repatriation of crew members were also regulated on landing, in breach of duties on board, etc. We believe that the law well defines the status, jurisdiction and responsibilities of port captains, as well as the safety protection of ships, facilities, safety of navigation, then ports, ports and ship's services. The PUPS Group considers that the draft law will have a positive impact on all operators engaged in internal and water transport, i.e. provide port services in terms of a stable increase in the provision of port services and optimal use of existing capacities. The positive impact will in particular be reflected in the business of a part of the economy which exclusively uses freight services through internal water transport. We are aware that the law will gradually, due to the lifting of technical requirements for the correctness of ships, cause a withdrawal from the use of a vessel that, due to its lower technical condition, poses a threat to the safety of navigation and the environment. We must add that 100% of the difficulty is that this law is passed in a period when the Republic of Serbia is in the process of agreeing on a draft contract to establish a transport community between the EU, on the one hand, and the countries of Southeast Europe, on the other. You have full support, Mr. Minister, to succeed. Our desire to use the inland waterways at pan-European level without restrictions will be achieved by meeting technical requirements for inland navigation vessels, and according to the conditions laid down in the status of the Convention on Navigation of Rain, Maine and Danube. On the basis of all the suggestions and opinions and opinions of other political groups, and with the adoption of a number of technical amendments intended to correct the text of this law, or its structure, the PUPS will support this law in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44219	National MP Kenan Hajdarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44220	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two years after the constitution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it was necessary for the competent ministry to do so and deliver an air traffic bill to us. Unfortunately, even so much delay did not allow us to have a law that would be in line with European norms and regulations, but we also had to get 41 amendments from the Government of the Republic of Serbia under this law. I'm really surprised when some colleagues praise this law in principle. We should open up here to say that we have a law that is bad in principle and that only with the amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia should we agree with the form and with those proposals submitted by the EU. This is, among other things, the result of disorganization, superficial application of European rules and standards. There is no, Mr Mrkonjic, a shortcut in Serbia's path to the EU, nor is it a shortcut to pass laws that are not in agreement with the EU, nor are those laws that should be used to fraud the EU. We just need to stick to the procedures that already exist. Here, Mr. Mrkonjic, you should have first told us who was responsible for coming into the process of a law that did not comply with EU standards. Also, the current Air Traffic Act has been a major obstacle to Serbia's and its economies. The interpretation of institutions that were to apply the law protected the JAT monopolies at the expense of both states and citizens. Just look at the example of those countries that modernised their infrastructure through competition, which attracted capital investment when we talk about aviation, which, among other things, enabled cheaper travel to their citizens. It was all made possible by competition and air traffic. However, we had a law, we had institutions that were supposed to implement the air traffic law, which enabled a public company monopoly, in this case JAT. This air traffic law and the amendments the government has submitted should only be the introduction, according to us from the LDP, of a much more significant law to be discussed in the coming period, which is the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for JAT Airways credit. The law says the Republic of Serbia should guarantee 51m euros in credit to JAT, and 90% of those funds should cover the losses that JAT has made in the past. We need Serbian citizens to pay through the budget the inability to manage these public enterprises. It seems to me that no better example shows how this party's management of public enterprises works and what it means in the right sense to departise public enterprises, on the one hand, or to privatise public enterprises, on the other hand, which the Liberal-Democratic Party insists on. Mr. Minister, you should perhaps be in your opening statement, among other things, and say something about it. How long has it been and how long has she been having talks with a strategic JAT partner? Which is a strategic partner, not to learn about it from newspaper articles. Also, you said two or three days ago that government policy, among other things, is that we have a national airline. Okay, I agree, that sounds patriotic, but you should also tell us how much it costs Serbian citizens. What are we gonna do for that money that we're gonna set out to have? Will we have better transport, better quality or will we continue to have one loser who Serbian citizens pay, on the one hand, through a plane ticket when they buy it, and the other way is through the budget, by giving guarantees on loans? It's obvious to repeat an example of RTS, which we've been talking about these two or three days. RTS citizens of Serbia are funding through a subscription, and now, among other things, we need to finance RTS through budget rebalances to pay for what they see on RTS. We also need to make it clear what the strategy of the Republic of Serbia is when we talk about that air traffic. About that, Mr. Minister, you didn't say anything in the opening statement, and it seems to me that in this debate on air traffic, we need to bring in a little more life, so that citizens can clearly get answers to those questions that they're interested in, and those answers are whether they'll have a better company, whether they're going to drive better planes and whether they're going to drive cheaper. It is obvious that in the last few months when foreign airlines, which drive less money for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have also shown that it is possible for a lower ticket price to be driven by better planes, not for those aircraft that are only older year after year, and the losses of our JP year by year are only higher.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44221	The word has a letter from Jasmina Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44222	I'm going to try some liveliness to get into this debate, as counterpart Kenan Hajdarevic would say. The Honorable Chairman, ministers, representatives of the Ministry, are practically two roof laws ahead of us, and they are really narrow and now if we were to talk, a member of this law, it might mean nothing to our citizens, but that's why I chose, let's say, a few of some of the items in one law and another that would listen to and follow what we're doing here, maybe get a little closer to understanding the essential life that these laws can mean to them and what are all the areas that they're covering. What we are told on the Transport Committee, as the Ministry has said, that when we agree on this law and its specific articles on security, in fact for security, or security, it would be difficult to translate from the English language "securitise", security for us would refer to some technical security of the aircraft itself, aircraft, aircraft, aircraft, while security would more mean security from the point of view, let's say, today's events, terrorist attacks, more security in that sense, which is necessary for one flight to take place in a way that should take place. So if we look only at the fact that air traffic is one of the youngest branches of traffic, and if we take it from the Wright brothers to today, from 1903 to today, when the maltene aircraft, or their aircraft, flew through a cane and a cane, that's the most technical and technological advancement of that traffic. Not to mention today we only have a plane, a helicopter, various space stations, space shuttles, etc. On the one hand, as these technical and technological achievements grew, on the other hand, these risky circumstances that could have arisen actually increased. On the one hand, we have progress, and on the other hand we have some accidents that can happen to these very technical achievements. Today, in fact, the biggest challenge in the world is how to provide not only a flight as a flight to be correct fully in terms of aircraft and flight control. You, if in road traffic, you have an integrated system represented by a driver, a road and a vehicle, so in air traffic, you have that flight crew, which runs that plane, you have an aircraft and, of course, flight control. So it's an integrated system that has to fully function with each other and have communication. Just as such, it tends to some insecure elements, namely that their security, that part of which is related to "securing," is critical, and especially that lately since the terrorist attack that took place in America to date, is something that is number one, next to the aircraft itself and the performance it has. So, as far as the deed is concerned, we didn't mention it, and I'm going to briefly mention the term "so-called." The open sky, the concept of control of the sky. Our flight control, in fact, we have an extremely strong base, not only in personnel, but also technically trained, but also in terms of these European integrations, where we strive to divide the entire sky over the continent into five or six zones in a few years. They certainly have the right to apply for one of these points of control and from the aspect of technical equipment and people, because schooling good flight controllers is one process that is very long, very expensive. We've already built a complete system and that's one chance for us. If you look at over 450,000 flights a year, it controls our flight control, which is financially excellent one piece of information. I don't know exactly, but I know it's a figure that's very good, and it's all that warns us, so we can't lose that place, that our flight control is one of those points that will control part of the sky over Europe. It's generally about trends in civil traffic. The airlines are not going to choose the path that is the shortest to any point they travel to, but it's practically more important for them to choose a point that's safer. If we already know they're considering us and through the directive, both the conventions and their experts who come to us have confirmed the same thing that our flight control is one of the ones they count on. Moreover, today's tourists that we have and who come into our country in a growing number, I can't believe, to say, that they're spoiled, but people in terms of time cuts want to travel safer and reach a destination that is convenient to them. If we consider that we have 17 sports airports, we have three military airports. By the very definition of the airport, except it can be civil, military and mixed, I already know that from the ministry people are working to develop so-called. The secondary, or tertiary network of the airport, which I already know is already in the process that it can be used as a tourist network, because it is close to a larger number of these tourist destinations. We have a situation today to secure the infrastructure, so that they can land in the Royal, Vršac or at some of those smaller airports. We have a problem today, because today, in order for someone to land here, they first have to land in Belgrade to carry out customs and all necessary paperwork that goes up the flight. Only after that can he fly further to the airport he's going to. So, for its own needs, touristic, for some internal taxi transport, why not, should use and develop this secondary, tertiary network of airports and where Belgrade, practically, like the international airport and the one we have in Nis, could be in function, practically, air ports. What's also important is that, apart from the safety of the aircraft itself and its security, we also have airports. Let me just mention that by 2013, if I'm not mistaken, for the purpose of cutting passenger time after the many controls that are currently under way, I know that every airport will have to have so-called. Scanning fluids, where practical and all these time-consuming controls will be reduced as long as they last, and passengers, and security and practically people who fly. I therefore believe that in this law which is before us of certain regulations and directives, you have made it clear to individual members, where you are calling at what point comes into force. From our conversation with our colleague, we also found it very good that someone who deals with air traffic will be able to do exactly what they can with the relevant member of the law to find a directive that defines or edits the area. As for the very definitions that we have received in the law, our parliamentary group has a few amendments. I'll insist on them. I'll try to please the minister, maybe he'll look at it from the same angle as us. In fact, it concerns the flight staff or flight attendants. Actually, I can't accept the definition that there's a stewardess on the plane who only gives me coffee and tea. It's simply someone who takes care of someone who might be sick at the moment, who may be panicking, because when an airplane is forced to land, it won't be the pilot who will be directly taking care of the passengers, so I don't think it's exactly a flight attendant and flight attendant. That's what we'll do when there's a debate in principle, and we'll talk about it. Perhaps I should say that, as far as these security situations are concerned, by this law that's covered, and everywhere in the world, after so many hijackings of planes, which isn't happening to us, but in the world, we've simply sent all the services that are necessary at the airport, and even those that are for hostage situations, for negotiations, it's all good that we've sent in and covered every situation that can happen. Finally, I'd like to say a few words about water traffic, or onion arrangements. Water traffic by definition as the most economical, as the safest and most environmentally acceptable is poorly exploited by us for several reasons, regardless of what we have about 1680km of waterways, which Danube, Sava, Tisa, Begei, Tamis and the Danube-Tisa-Dunav hydrosystem. We are members of both the Danube and the Sava Commission, and we are also connected to the Paradise Commission, that is all we have to take advantage of in the perspective, if I am not mistaken, according to this master plan which, by 2025, takes into account the full use of our internal waterways that are also international. Not to say that the Danube, Malta, is in itself the same way as the highway with about 20 lanes and that, as Mr. Stamenkovic said, apart from the previous warships, there are many unexploded bombs, that it is another of the things where the EU helps us to invest, giving money to clean up, because not only would water traffic develop in the touristic sense and what we would approach as the market, it is very important that our large ports, which are in a good place, are connected, take Smederevo, Belgrade, Novi Sad, connect both the road and the railway corridor and the railway corridor, and that it is necessary to strive to develop large logistics centres in those places, where a multi-model transport system would be established, where railways, road, water and ro-ro systems would combine, which I am not sure whether there is a port only in Smérevo or not. But it's all about being able to hire more people or the logistics centres themselves are something that is the palletization of goods. Transporting a container is something that's the future, and it's going to be reality for us too. It practically reduces and reduces costs for people who carry transport, and for us, because we are also the ones who transport and accept that transfer. So this Corridor 7 Danube, connected to the other corridors, I only mentioned briefly. Because it's a good thing we're also doing this law, which treats our inner roads, to resolve all the ambiguities that were tied to the ports, to the captains. In combination, a good law with a good plan that's tied to 2025 can give us really good results. I would like to point out that our SPS-JS parliamentary group in voting day will support these bill proposals to become laws, because they are in the spirit of not only integrations that are primary and good, but because it is good for both our people who are here and who are dealing with some of these kinds of traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44223	The word is Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is October 5th, and that is why I will begin this presentation of this item of the agenda with three notes concerning the way our assembly functions in this case in this particular case. First of all, who knows what time I'm making a remark about a dot merger. It is true that both points in the area of traffic and that both points are in charge of the minister of traffic, it is not disputed, but it is two basic laws, to say the roof law which, by its essence and by its scope, deserves individual debate. It's enough to look at the fact that one law has 291 members, I think, and another 261-262. So they both have over 550 members. I don't know how in the context of a debate, especially when it comes to discussion in particular, we'll be able to discuss all amendments? We have a space time for 300 amendments, and the members are 550 and something. I think the decision to bring these two points together, which is not the first time in this House, is directly at the heart of the quality of the debate to be conducted on these laws. Secondly, we haven't worked for three months on the will of the ruling majority. We didn't work first in July, so later we didn't work in August and September. I don't see any reason why now that we've finally started working, we have to work at a time when it's not scheduled for the work of the Assembly. I don't see why we're here yesterday, and why are we working after 6:00 today? I don't see what's going to happen if we work at some normal time, a team before, as you know, there's no transmission at the moment. So the work of the Assembly at this point is not public. What's going to happen tonight is between 10:00 p.m. and 1:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m. at night, it's as if it's not public, because the largest number of citizens of this country at that time have to rest in order to go to work tomorrow. Thirdly, I must note that my intelligence is not large enough to understand all the subtleties of our Rules of Procedure, which is unilaterally brought to the will of the ruling majority, so we have a brilliant provision that when we report to the speakers we have to write whether they are in favour or against. We're discussing two laws here. For example, I personally think that one law is decent and the other law is wrong. Then I'm half in, half out. It's not the only wisdom that's written in our Rules of Procedure, but it's worth mentioning that something like that should be thrown out of the Rules of Procedure. Speaking of Rules of Procedure, there is something that the Rules of Procedure did not regulate and should have been regulated, this is exactly the situation in which the Government appeared from 41 amendments to one law. That, if I'm not mistaken, is 15% of the law. I cannot understand that the Government has submitted an amendment, one or two amendments, because in some member it has overlooked something, a little bit, but 41 amendments mean a practical amendment of 15% of the law, not to say that there is a whole series of problems whether MPs can write amendments to amendments. These amendments, if they pass a certain procedure, become an integral part of the law, practically without the possibility of submitting amendments made by MPs. That's why I think Mr. Ilic's proposal actually went way too far. It was much more instructed that the government had withdrawn the law for at least two hours, installed amendments and then sent us a comprehensive law. This isn't the first time. It's already happened once that we've had a large number of government amendments to the law and I think it's something that's not good, no matter what law it's about and whether the amendments are quality or not quality, etc. I'm not getting into that right now. To finally get back to the laws themselves. When it comes to air traffic law, it should be said that the minister noticed that the applicable law was passed in 1998, but the disaster occurred much earlier. Practically 90 and some years, Serbia was expelled from any air traffic, and a large number of new air traffic standards and rules were introduced in Europe. Please understand that I am talking about Europe, not the EU, because all these rules apply to non-EU countries. It applies to Switzerland, both Norway, Turkey and Russia, etc. It is really about the rules that apply to all of Europe and of course we need our laws with these European rules of play to fully comply and it is a pity that this law has not already been passed. The second thing to say is that right in the area of air traffic, we have high chances, but someone just mentioned JAT, it has nothing to do with this. We can have or we can't have JAT, we can have one or 101 companies, it doesn't matter at all. This is about airspace, and we need to know that the airspace above our country is the intersection of important airways from the far east, South Africa, Europe and still to America. Not to say we have a great chance of building an airport, a big cargo center, etc. I think we as a state have a great chance in that domain of air traffic. Whether or not we're going to have a domestic air carrier is quite the tenth kind of problem, and in fact, that's the problem this law doesn't even deal with and doesn't have to deal with. What is visible when the law is carefully read is that it is clear that a certain number of people from the profession participated in the draft law. That's what you can see from the way it's written and let me say right now that these parts are better than other parts of the law. The disadvantages of the law apply to those parts where we tried to steal a little bit, or to cheat on Europe, so that we could change some of the chaos without Vlachs remembering, so that these parts of the law, to say some of the political parts, the bad parts, and they should be fixed. The Democratic Party of Serbia has not submitted a large number of amendments to the law. We could have suffered another number, of course. We were just shooting to fix some of the complete illogicalities that they wrote in the law and immediately to say that we only filed four amendments to this law. Personally, I think this law, maybe I won't agree with my colleagues, better than the other one. I'll talk about him now. It's a very important area again. When we mention river traffic, we usually think of the Danube, possibly Sava, but it is little known that there are 2,000km of waterways or perspective waterways in Serbia, perspective in terms of waterways. Only thanks to our negligence are not waterways, but they could be. What's the significance of the waterway? No need, enough to tell you to compare how much it costs to maintain the highway and how much it costs a kilometer of waterway maintenance, so you'll get one relationship that will clearly tell us how cheap it is to have waterways. It is clear that order should be put in place. Again and here you can see in some parts of the law that it was done by the men of the profession that they were good parts of the law. Unfortunately, there is a lot of political interference in the law itself, and then these are very bad parts of the law. Let me give you a specific example. You understand that there are interstate waters, international waters and that there are state waters. These are local rivers where smaller vessels mostly sail. The law stipulates that we transfer all matters on state waters in Vojvodina to the jurisdiction of the province of Vojvodina. It's just a bunch of stuff. So, the state will take care of the traffic on Moravia, but in Tamis, Tissi, Neri, etc. And with some channels there will be exclusively that jurisdiction has the Vojvodina. You know, I don't mind the AP being transferred jurisdiction in some areas where it makes some logical sense, but traffic is the last thing in this world to do decentralisation. Traffic must be a state issue number one, and it must be taken into account throughout the territory of the state. So, whether it's a road, rail, air, river, it's a state issue. Of course it's not the traffic on Tamis that's going to be arranged by the Uzicans, it's going to be done by those who live there. Of course, the traffic on Moravi will again be regulated and many jobs will be done by those living on that river. The state must give the roof and ensure equal conditions for that traffic to take place. There's no need for traffic in Tamisa to be organized by someone in New Sad. Why? Tamish has nothing to do with Novi Sad. It's one pair of excellency political decisions that goes through some 15 members of the law. We have given the amendment to only one member and noted that if this is adopted then legal and technical order and other members should be carried out, not wanting to increase the number of unnecessary amendments, but that is a fundamental issue. There are still questions like that. We have submitted to this law, although we have abstained, 11 amendments. There'll be more questions like that. There's still a lot of illogicality, and frankly, it seems to me that this other law, the internal navigation law, requires a much more serious story, and I think it should be written over and over again. It's the DSS's position, no matter how much we don't dispute the need to pass both laws. These are the undeniable laws we need to pass. So much, I say, I'm sorry that I don't know if we'll have time to discuss all the amendments in detail. I'm afraid not. I don't know how many amendments there are. We've heard there's 190 on this one, I don't know how many on this one, but if there's so much more, we can't do it in ten hours of debate. So that will undoubtedly reflect the quality of the law itself. Once again, I wish the government would no longer submit amendments to its own law, or in such quantities, and if there is anything to fix it, simply withdraw the law for 24 hours and bring it back fixed. It's far more cellular, normal and natural.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44225	MP Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44226	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and for the SNS, these two laws are extremely important and I would like to join Mr Shami in one criticism of the congregation's majority which these two laws have brought together in one debate, because it is obvious that we do not often have the opportunity to consider this topic at the meetings of the Assembly. Given the fact that these are really important areas, it should have given MPs opportunities to prepare themselves better, but also enough time to discuss this as best possible. As for the law on navigation and ports and on that law, as well as the air traffic law, the SNS has submitted one, I would say, a number of amendments, 40 amendments to both one and the other law, at 40, which means that we are well-sufficient and dissatisfied with all that has been proposed by the Government. So, the law on sailing and ports, we think, when it comes to waterways, is very little invested in the past ten years. Since we entered the transition process, as of October 5th, some estimates of over 80 billion euros have entered Serbia one way or another, whether through export, whether through donations, through grants, through grants, through feeds, it is irrelevant now. And if something was invested in that travel infrastructure, it means it was literally invested in roads, in roads, very little in railways, something in air traffic, but almost nothing in water traffic. We also had no strategy when it came to the privatisation process in the previous period, when the ports were privatised. Today we have come to the situation that all these ports that are privatised are not actually performing the work they should be doing, that the owners of these ports are much more interested in this city's building land than to continue with the work that was primary. Unfortunately, Mr Dulic's law, which allowed them to buy that land, did not go into the hands of preserving those ports and that we are now in a situation – whether to build new ports, since there is probably nothing of these. Are we going to rely on the EU, is the EU ready to invest in Serbia's ports at all? Because if we're not ready to invest, maybe that part doesn't interest her, first of all, she's interested in transportation. We're in a situation where we can't make almost no revenue from these waterways, because income is made across the port, not through transport. Here, first of all, we have the cost, the cost of maintaining that waterway. Therefore, it is important to say that a very small portion of transport refers to waterways. According to some statistics I've been able to find, it's not a full 5%. Our official desire is to increase this by about 15%, but that, unfortunately, it all comes down to the transport of gravel, to transport sand, to stone, possibly and possibly, maybe South Es Steel is someone who has been able to partially exploit these waterways and that, eventually, make significant savings in costs where transport costs significantly burden each product. Especially important burden on our production, our exports, since our exports are working and resource-defined. The quantity price of our exports is extremely low so the reduction of transport costs would significantly affect the competitiveness of our economy and the competitiveness of our exports will be much higher. I would also like to say, as far as international transport is concerned, that very little is happening across Serbia's territory, that fortunately this bridge of "Freedom" we have managed to do, but that everything about maintenance of travel routes we have not done or that we have done very little and that, above all, we rely on the EU and its goodwill, neglecting the fact that it is and also in our interest. As far as the air traffic law is concerned, I think what's most important is that what my colleagues have not said in these previous two years, the Directorate and the Flight Control Agency have been doing in an illegal, unconstitutional way, which would be confirmed by the Constitutional Court. It seems to me that this law has come so quickly, incompletely, inconsistencies and inconsistencies, very quickly before us MPs, to the assembly session. That's one of the reasons why we have this number of amendments from the government to a law that she herself has accepted. So, the fact is that the huge amount of money that has been poured into the Directorate since the flight, often wasted unintendedly, is that we in this assembly room have often talked about it, that unfortunately they have been through the council, the future board of directors, involved some ministers. All of them avoided accepting the fact that this money belongs to the Republic of Serbia, that it belongs to the Republic of Serbia and that perhaps something that should be commended first of all in this law is the fact that it has finally been recognised and that these are now the funds belonging to the Republic of Serbia. Based on that, I'm counting on having a much better situation in this area than we've had so far, that we're going to have much less monopoly, that we're going to have much less monopoly, a lot less personal, a lot of group interests, and unfortunately, this bill hasn't convinced ourselves. I think the draft law has given the Directorate too much authority, too much authority, that this bill is designed as a public agency, that this is not the best solution. As far as SNS is concerned, I think the ministry should have played a much more active role, that it is necessary within the Ministry to have an organisational unit dealing with air traffic, that we also have such solutions in the surrounding countries, that it is not against the EU directive, as the gentlemen claim, which are called air traffic experts. I would mention that such a solution in Slovenia, which is very well known to you, is an EU member. We have a lot of misinformation when it comes to this area, to count on it, that both the MPs and the public very little know about all the regulations and all the regulations that have been passed over the years that are behind us and that, based on that, the public is pretty much being deceived. What the SNS would resent the Directorate is that, I would mention a few members that matter to us, and I say, we have over 40 amendments. At least half refers to the directorate's authority. For example, in Article 14, the designation of aircraft entities responsible for security also belongs to the jurisdiction of the Directorate. This cannot possibly be his jurisdiction, in which economic operators will participate in the market of these, I say, air services. That's what he has to think, first of all, about the accreditation law we just had. They need professional bodies to issue certificates to individual economic operators. The directorate can possibly control their work, deal with surveillance, give some of its remarks, but this proposal creates an opportunity for monopolies, creating the possibility that the Directorate, which has so far been in one bold and illegal way, I say, spent millions, and some mention even close to 500m euros that it was spent without any social control, gives itself the opportunity to decide which economic operators in that aviation market to play the main word. So that's unacceptable for SNS. Furthermore, as far as the Directorate's intelligence is concerned, he manages the database of events, benefits and exchanges security data under this proposal. We think it's also a very unserious proposal, a very unserious institute, that this area of data collection, data storage, data use, at a time when we're all aware that there's a lot of problems around the world when it comes to air traffic, when it comes to these terrorist threats that are often being surmounted above air traffic, it shouldn't be the job of the Directorate. This must be done by the Ministry, so there must be at least sublegal regulations that would regulate the area. These are too serious questions to be left to the Directorate, to their good will and their ability to use them properly, to recognize potential dangers when it comes to air traffic security, and we can't think of it as being given by law. In Article 73, for example, as regards the compensation for providing services, we think that it is unclear, it is unclear who says that in this sense we must, we intervened with the amendment, we hope that you will have the understanding and that the Directorate will not be able to issue fees and fees on its own, and in this way also to some economic operators, place them in a position to be privileged or to narrow the market, rejecting some others who are not able to pay some taxes and fees that may not be proportionate to our options, our costs or some international regulations and pricers. Then, in article 54, the payment for confirmations when it comes to noise and harmful gases. That's contrary to the Administrative Tax Act. It was also not regulated by the Law on Administrative Taxes and could not be found in this air traffic law. In Article 159, we have, let's say, that the Directorate is authorized to carry out basic inspections of aircraft. Even in the 161st article - that each third periodic review is carried out. Where is it that the Directorate will be technically and staffed to carry out that review, whether it is necessary to do so by professional institutions, i.e. professional economic operators, scientific institutions or by an inspectorate? It seems to me that it should not be part of his work and even the Directorate has given himself the right in Article 235, say, to introduce international standards, to apply international acts and regulations, that's something that belongs to the Republic, that's an area governed by the Republic. How can the directorate decide that? It has to go through congregation procedure and I think he gave himself too many rights when it comes to this area. What may be interesting, I was reading, so I still couldn't believe it, but the MPs of the congregation's majority might be able to deal with it a little bit, that's Article 266. The law, where someone in the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed a job. There are two people, it's the director of the Civil Aviation Directorate and the deputy director, who is guaranteed a job. Today in Serbia, when we had over 180,000 lost places in the past two years, when people who are out of work every day are thinking about what they're going to do tomorrow, these two gentlemen have a legally guaranteed job. The agency is formed, a public agency, and those who were directors in this body become directors and deputy directors in that agency. So they're not just busy, they're getting executive chairs. I've really not seen it in any law in the last few years, as far as I'm concerned. You're shutting down an institution, I'm guessing you're having a public competition. This man who was the director of another body can compete, can be re-elected, but the law guarantees him that he will be the director and deputy director, that even in this newly established body, in this newly established agency to guarantee him a directorial post, I think this is an extreme insolence, primarily towards thousands of citizens who are now in Serbia without a job. I would remind you that 700,000 people are officially waiting at the Bureau for work, if these gentlemen hadn't shown themselves at their jobs because the Constitutional Court would not have passed a constitutional provision that made the establishment of these bodies unconstitutional. So I think it's for erasing, and that's what SNS asked for with one amendment. I also call upon the MPs of the majority not to allow such a way and such legal solutions because this is the simplest insolence and pride. I think there are other things that, of course, the SNS is unhappy with. First of all, I would point out when it comes to air sports, sports-amateur-tourism aviation, that the law has given very little space, very little attention, that in this area the Directorate has given himself the right to ask about everything and everything, that he has a monopoly over everything and everything. We're coming into a situation where pulling sailboats and jumping out of the parachute is a service and that, for example, you have to be a registered commercial air carrier, that there's not enough space left for airlines, sports activities. For example, we Jagodins have a memorial airing called Goran Ostojić, where it is very common, in fact and almost always, the military present, helicopters of the Army are present. Does the military, when involved in events like this, have the right to participate, since it is not registered as a public air carrier? What is the relationship of this law to such events? We don't think that's settled enough. Another illogicality when it comes to parachutery. This is where paratroopers are treated as air personnel. The Civil Aviation Directorate gives them permission to be paratroopers. That's not what I've been informed of, anywhere in international law. All of this falls under a sports competition, under the aeroclubs. The air unions should be the ones who would possibly grant permits or should be operated by aeroclubs, or there should be some regulations, tests, or whatever else, to give someone permission to be a paratrooper. I think it's gone too far with the directorate's intelligence, and in our opinion, the continuation of that policy we had in the previous period, for seven years since Yugoslavia's collapse, has not been properly arranged. Apparently, a variety of monopolies formed, apparently the gentlemen of the Directorate sweetened the revenues they had since the overpass, which they spent as they wanted and could, so they tried to replace each member in every way. That's what's unacceptable for the SNS and what we fought against first of all with the amendments we submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44227	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44228	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have two system laws: the draft air traffic law and the proposal for a law on navigation and ports on internal waters. These are system laws which are not only a way to bring the EU legislation closer to Serbian legislation, but also the laws have come from the constitutional obligation that these areas so far governed by the laws adopted in the state union and the previous SFRY be brought to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that they apply only to Serbia. Realisation of the commitments set out in the Action Plan for the adoption of air traffic laws concerning the compliance of Serbia's rules with EU rules provides for the adoption of an air traffic law in 2007. Unfortunately, we have it on the agenda today, and I hope that after the debate, this law will be passed, because the latest report by the European Commission, which spoke of Serbia's progress on the path of European integration, specifically mentioned the air traffic law and is strictly conditioned that it is necessary for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt this important system law. This law, first of all, refers to the safe operation of air traffic and, first of all, to users of services, therefore, to citizens who will travel by means of a variety of air traffic. It applies to civil aircraft above the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and to military only in cases where it is strictly defined by law itself. So far, we have not had a case of concrete offering of a solution in the current laws, such as police helicopters flying over Serbia's territory. This law has removed it. So we have no obstacle for police aircraft in their various actions and in the specific tasks they have, where they have to carry weapons, to carry out the task. There are procedures related to unpredictable events, which may occur in that case. A multilateral agreement with the EU and with countries covering the so-called The European sky provides for the adoption of this law. We signed the agreement in 2006, it was ratified last year in the National Assembly, and I think it is an opportunity to liberalise all regulations, to liberalise a market that will allow development, first of all, of the aviation industry, because I don't think it has been developed properly so far. All those points we had, such as the Serbia-Montenegro Flight Control Agency, which established high standards in Europe as well, as regards safe flight control, should indeed be supported and further air traffic in Serbia should be developed. This law allows formal separation of two independent bodies created by the adoption of this law, i.e. the directorate, as an independent regulatory body and service provider, which is in this case the Serbia-Montenegro Flight Control Agency. The directorate, as an independent body, I think it is a far better solution than any sector of the ministry, because the board of directors themselves is made by people from five different ministries and they will, as such, surely make more independent decisions than in the event that the directorate is located in the sector of any ministry. In any case, it is in line with the solutions contained in the European Commission's directives. What is important is that the transitional provisions state that the current director of the Directorate is also taking over the future director of the Agency, so that it does not appear to be immeasurable anywhere, but will certainly be re-elected after the term of office. What I stressed is that the advantage of independent authorities can first and foremost be seen in the business of the Serbia-Montenegro flight control agency, which really represents something that can raise both states. It controls a safe flight of aircraft above Serbia, Montenegro, the works of BiH and the works of Croatia. At the 2009 Eurocontrol category "Smats" Serbia-Montenegro took 11th place, leaving behind many major countries such as Spain, Greece and many others above which there are far more flights. In addition, the data is that the price of their services is competitive, so with the standard they have reached, which is the zero value of delays, the zero value of errors, they represent something that attracts all airlines to do business with our Flight Control Agency. I also mention the fact that this is one big opportunity for progress in the aviation sector, on 21 August 2010, the Agency had 2,261 flights, which is the historic maximum for this agency, and the data suggest that growth has also been achieved in the years of the major crisis, so in 2008, 2009 and 2010 growth in the number of flights and number of landings goes from six to six and a half percent. What has led the Agency to this situation is the safe quality of flight controllers' work, which are certainly dressed well enough to be able to monitor all those technologies that are needed to ensure that the flight control agency does its job properly. I note that they are all trained after completing basic studies. They train for a minimum of three to five years for these jobs they do afterwards. What helps in the functioning process of the Agency is the combined payment of the routine fee achieved by the Eurocontrol membership and allows the Agency to finance itself completely independently and to send over two billion revenues to the Republic's budget annually from the Agency's work. It is predicted that aviation in this part of Europe will certainly continue to develop and become denser. In this regard, the Agency also took a loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and is planning to buy technical equipment that will allow all flights above the Republic of Serbia and other states over which the flight control agency Smata has the authority for the next 15 years. What I might be able to pass on to the MPs of the Machine Project this time has completed a study on the economic justification of the conversion of Ships, the future mixed military-civil airport, and the Ministry of Defence initiative has been conducted by this study funded by both municipalities and cities that have an interest in carrying out this conversion, which are municipalities and cities that are 100 kilometers away and cover millions and 200,000 inhabitants of this region. This project, which I expect to be completed in the coming years and, let's say, next year, we already have one start with cargo flights, with charter flights, a project that will allow this region to develop, will allow our citizens not to leave the part that is mostly rural, will allow the citizens of Kraljev, Čačka, Novi Pazar, Kragujevac to have another hope that the economy in this region will come to life and that the airport will also mean the opening of new jobs. As for the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, it is also a law harmonising the regulations of the Republic of Serbia with the regulations of the European Union, some eight European Commission directives are being incorporated into Serbia's legislation. These are all preconditions for liberalisation and for this sector and for its development, and we must recognise that this sector has been quite derelict so far, and should be taken into account that waterways, i.e. water traffic, are the cheapest kind of transport. The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia supports these bill proposals and we will vote for the adoption of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44229	National MP Momir Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I even start talking about the law at all, I have to deny one sentence of the predecessor. "The agency pumps into the Republic of Serbia's budget over two billion a year. "Absolutely incorrect, the only thing that gets into the Republic of Serbia's budget is taxes on employees' salaries. Mr. Minister, it's not for a story, but in the village of Unspeakable, the Machines of Corridor 11 stood there the moment you arrived to enter Lykovac and as far as I could see, they were still standing there. Now let's get to the law. Milutin Mrkonjic, from the scene: You didn't see it well. Maybe they're on now. Maybe tonight you started the machines before you got here. The SRS has submitted more than 170 amendments to this law and I have received this amendment to a law proposed by the Government and I see that several amendments have been prescribed by the SRS amendment. We are always ready to help the government improve the law, of course a bill that can be improved. This law cannot be improved with so many amendments, with no government, no MPs, because it is impossible to do so with several aspects. First of all, from a legal point of view, the law is extremely badly done. You have a Article 3 which is a term and you have one third of the members where either the whole member or only the first and second attitude again represent an explanation of the concept, not the norm as it should otherwise be. From a linguistic and lexic point of view, the law is also very unmistakable and badly done, as well as a translation when you used foreign legal solutions, and it was wrongly done. From the point of view of air safety, this law is very dangerous because it has not ruled out the possibility, it has not eliminated the possibility it was a year or a half ago. So, let me remind you, due to the lack of power in flight control, even though they have thermal power, first the power from the grid, and then one set of aggregates, and then the second set of aggregates, two hours of flight control was out of power, and the planes were flying blind, they were taken over by other flight controls. That can't and can't be allowed. From the point of view of the country's sovereignty is extremely devastating and poses a threat to the basic postulate – the sovereignty and security of the country. From an economic point of view, it is devastating because it opens up a peach for the kidnapping of state resources – the sky by the EU and other countries, and later I will show you that it is already applicable. Then what is this bill for? This law seemed necessary to give the legality of an agreement signed by an unauthorized person with EU countries and a number of countries. The agreement was signed in 2006, and this was signed by the European Community and its Member States, then the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, which surprised me a little bit, but later I saw that there was no place of surprise, that highly designed Iceland was inserted as the signator of this agreement, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the mission of the UN temporary administration in Kosovo on the establishment of a common European aviation area. The agreement was signed on behalf of the Republic of Serbia on 29 June 2006 by the director of the Directorate in Brussels. Here common sense requires an answer to the question of who authorized Dragoljub Trčević, then V.d. Director of the Civil Aviation Directorate, to sign this agreement, given that it is directly affecting Serbia's sovereignty, as it provides for the possibility of delegating airspace to other countries' competences for flight control. The signing of such an agreement without prior entry into the EU is contrary to the interests of the domestic aviation industry and national interests in the fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija. If we were a member of the EU, then signing this agreement would be acceptable, but not by the director of the Directorate, because this can only be signed by the minister, or the government, with the consent of the Assembly. Why does the Republic of Iceland hold airport flight control for Pristina in Kosovo and Metohija and therefore charge overpasses fees? Who is responsible for not respecting the provisions of the Military and Technical Agreement and Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council on the return of jurisdiction to the Republic of Serbia over the airspace above Kosovo and Metohija? Now these powers have been illegally taken over by Eulex. The airport flight control in Pristina, which covers the space of Kosovo and Metohija up to 5,000 metres, is held by the Republic of Iceland against Resolution 1244, and charges for it of course services, and more than 5,000 metres of space is closed to civilian aircraft flights and is in command of KFOR. For Unmik's presence as an equal partner in the conclusion of an interstate multilateral agreement, they called for UN Security Council Resolution 1244. However, there is no provision in that resolution that gives such a mandate to the mission, in particular there is no possibility that what they have passed on to EULEX beyond Resolution 1244. The military technical agreement provides for the possibility of transferring responsibilities in the airspace to control the usual air activities of the relevant institutions in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then the SRJ still existed to monitor operations, prevent conflicts in air traffic, international security, KFOR forces, etc. The transfer of this competence by Commander Kfor to international or any other institution is not envisaged by any provision of resolution or agreement, on the contrary, by the same provision of the agreement clearly states that control of civil and air traffic will be returned to civilian authorities, as soon as possible. Until today, this has not been done, and as things stand, it will not be and will be waited literally for the state of Kosovo to live and then give it to her. So much for friends from the EU, and so much for Eurocontrol. What did the people of the Flight Control Agency and the Directorate do about the return of jurisdiction? It's literally nothing. The man who runs the flight control agency, who, by the way, behind his back, because they can't, they call the little yellow Führer, has just seduced the fear of the flight control agency and it's unacceptable. I'll also talk later about incredible spending, usurpation, abuse, robbery and everything else that's going on in that agency. I think, Mr. Minister, next to you, there should be another minister from your party, so when he hears this, he'll send a team to check it out. Believe that at least three scissors would be small to accept everything that's going on there. In time, the director of the Flight Control Agency was lobbyed by the director of the US Air Equipment Production Company Retion, and the director's name is Goldman, the US Embassy in Belgrade intervened in the Serbian government that Stankov must remain in the position of director, in return of them Stankov bought outdated equipment at extremely high prices. At least ten times I went out for a congregation pay phone and showed both the documentation, and the materials and analysis and equipment that was installed and the prices of comparable and quality equipment in the world. Therefore, the hand of the hand messes, and the state loses its income. Let no one, Mr. Minister, convince you of the money from the flyover, and we've just heard that it's an extremely large sum, that we have 450,000 flights a year, depending on the season, sometimes it's two thousand overflights, sometimes 700, 800, and the shortest flyover, the shortest running by a flight controller costs 600 dollars and so on. It is a huge sum, and the Agency for Flight Control is called the Agency for Flight Control of Serbia-Montenegro D.O.O.O., therefore, a limited-responsibility society. Is that what Nikola Stankov did, in addition to managing the Serbia flight control agency, was also head of the Directorate, because at the meeting of the Civil Aviation Director's Council, and you are on the board of directors, both in office and in the Directorate and in flight control, so you should be familiar with this. Nikola Stankov comes and when he's not invited, and that comes, say, with the Secretary of Defense and practically keeps his head on the line. As you can see, the SRS has fresh and accurate information from people and patriots from the Directorate and Agency for the Control of the Flight of Serbia-Montenegro. Another observation, this is the only institution that has kept it, so it's called the Serbia-Montenegro Flight Control Agency. Why? The simplest way, because when our representatives show up to control, then they will be, so you have no right. We'll talk about it later. So, the Agency for Flight Control of Serbia-Montenegro D.O.O. is an agency for which there is no law on its work, and there is no law on the work of the Civil Aviation Directorate of Serbia. The existing Air Traffic Act does not recognise these bodies, but the federal authority responsible for flight control and the federal ministry responsible for traffic operations, therefore, the state authorities. Why didn't they pass laws on the establishment of these organs? Who's controlling them? Whose jurisdiction are they under? The civil aviation directorate of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbia-Montenegro Aviation Control Agency were illegally established by the decision of the two governments of Serbia-Montenegro, because the company then did not have the necessary majority in the Serbian Parliament, when I say the company, I mean those who burned this assembly ten years ago. I asked the police to take Srdjan Milivojevic's match so he wouldn't repeat the script tonight. The fact that air traffic law is established by the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. This means that the Directorate has so far been illegally functioning and that it continues to function illegally until this law has been passed and that the congregation procedure has not yet begun. Now let's see why that agreement is so important, the parts of which must be incorporated and incorporated into this law and thus get legality. Under the subject-matter and conditions of this Agreement, and without prejudice to the relevant rules set out in Annex 1 to this Agreement, there are no restrictions on the freedom of establishment of undertakings by the citizens of the EES Member State and the partners of the SAA on the territory of any of them. The freedom of establishment of a company shall include the right to take or carry out activities of persons working on their own and to establish and run enterprises, especially companies and companies, under conditions etc. This applies to the establishment of agencies, branches or branches by nationals of any Member State of the EC or of the partners of the SAA established on the territory of any of them. This, Mr. Minister, given that we are not yet members of the EU, will be as they say in that series, "Dekna did not die and when we do not know"; we do not know when we will become or whether we will become. Otherwise, I was saying, as long as we stand there and they see us, they'll all go from there, and then we'll be alone again. This will choke the domestic aviation industry. We talked a little bit about the lou-bone airlines. It's true, the company's lou-bone comes in and it's going to choke our aviation and domestic aviation companies, and then, Mr. Minister, it's going to raise the price to that extent that none or almost none, except for those who work in flight control and possibly in the Directorate, will not be able to pay the plane ticket. In order not to be an empty story, I'm going to remind you of your admissions to flight control. I will remind you of a newspaper article published on 9.4.2010 where the flight controller reported a salary of 247 million for 2009 and left the highest taxpayers on the list. Translated to the moon, that's 20,250,000,00 dinars, and translated daily, that's 675,000 dinars a day. I am interested, SRS MPs are interested, I suppose all MPs are interested, citizens of the Serbian state in particular, which is the expert who earns 675,000 a day, and who earns 246 million dinars a year. If he has made a fair profit, let us immediately replace Mirko Cvetkovic and him, when he can earn for himself, he will also earn for the state. If he has wrongly earned, and all the opportunities are that holes were used in various laws or passed by the law, then that Mr. Ivica Dacic was working one hour overtime, so that he could put this man, if he's so good, in some cold and dark place, that a man might not be corrupted. Articles 8 and 9 of the agreement allows foreign private persons to set up airlines in Serbia without restrictions. We started with that SAA when we opened our market, we opened up some of the stomachs of the Serbian state, and they could all come whenever they wanted and all they wanted, and with whatever capital they wanted, and invest in Serbia, and they mostly invested in the trade. Now we have a situation where some of the owners of the prison are working here in their home countries. By opening these airlines, not only will we destroy our airlines, but we come to another danger directly dictated by NATO. How? Now you'll see. Every foreigner in the EU can come and establish an airline in Serbia, although there is a declarative possibility in the opposite direction. I'd like to see which Serbian goes to Brussels to open his own airline. It's just inexhaustible. We had one example, here it is obvious that NATO involved its fingers, the EU in Bulgaria when it was admitted to the EU closed down the transport part of the company ER Sofia. At that time, the part of the company with large Russian transport planes AN12 was reregistered and started working in Belgrade as a Serbian company called United International Airlines. Our Directorate, to be a slightly larger Catholic than the Pope, the Civil Aviation Directorate, although we are not in the EU, entered the European Security Assessment Programme on foreign aircraft before Bulgaria, so-called. "Safa" and in return, the company is closed in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44231	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44232	I'll use time and MPs' groups later to finish this story and hopefully convince the minister to withdraw the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44233	You'll have your chance. Here you go, Mr. Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44234	I'll try to be brief, so our colleague can finish his address. First of all, for the United Regions of Serbia and for the G17 plus party, it is indeed a great pleasure every time we have laws on the agenda that bring us closer to the EU. The situation is still in the Assembly today when we have on the agenda a draft air traffic law and a proposal for laws on navigation and ports on internal waters. Of course, we all want the Serbian sky to be part of the single European sky. What does that mean? This means introducing new rules and procedures already in force throughout Europe, from Iceland to Turkey. For the first time in Serbia, the area of civil aviation is being edited for the first time, and this law is the law of systemic character. What does that mean? This means that the legal basis for the adoption of a series of sublegislative acts that will, to detail, synchronize our legal system with European legislation. That is the answer to our colleagues, my predecessors who asked that question, or they suggested that this law does not regulate certain matters. Of course, it regulates because it's a system law and because some other sublegal act will certainly arrange it all, but this law was necessary in our legal system. What else does it mean to vote this bill? This law promotes, above all, the air traffic management system itself through user protection, through environmental protection, and through protection from monopoly. This law separates air navigation service providers from regulatory bodies, creates conditions for the establishment of a higher degree of efficiency of all airmen or otherwise associated with the air force. If we were to go from general to individual, then somehow three subjects would be singled out here on their own. One topic I have mentioned is to bring it into line with European legislation. The other important issue is security. The third topic is the very economic effects that will necessarily produce this law. This proposal for air traffic law introduces the highest degree of security. First of all, the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia is being established as a public agency. The legal position of the Directorate shall be regulated and the work, competence and authority of the Directorate itself shall be clearly prescribed, which shall be one of the necessary conditions of a good administration. The Directorate shall educate and manage the event database and shall exchange these data with the aviation authorities of other States, as well as with international aviation organisations. The Directorate shall prescribe the conditions under which an operational authorisation is issued. It shall change, suspend or put out of force, as well as verifying the expertise of the aircraft staff. In addition to setting a framework for passenger and freight safety, the law leaves a clear framework for defining Serbia's security in a broader sense. I mean, first of all, that, for example, the flights of the MUP helicopters are very often conducted as civilian flights, and also very often these helicopters are transported by officers of the same ministry who are armed, and then we had one legal void there. Thank God there were no cases, but it would have been very difficult to solve if we had any more serious problems. So this law provides the basis for that part of our society that is not yet legally regulated, too, to provide a good basis for it. The adoption of this proposal for air traffic law will certainly have significant economic effects. First of all, we need a law that is more appropriate to the real needs of investors' potential in this area for years. This law opens this market segment in a way that will lead to stronger competition. Stronger competition also means providing better quality services, thus reducing the cost of providing these good services. The possibility is that airports are managed not only by public enterprises, but also by other legal entities as well as by entrepreneurs. Our air carriers are allowed to access a common European aviation area that will have more than 500 million potential users in the coming period. This law should encourage the improvement of quality services, create conditions for increasing the number of passengers and the number of operations, both at airports and at ports in Serbia, and encourage an increase in the number of flights and navigation in our airspace and on our internal waters. Indeed, there are many reasons why we should all support this law together because I do not think this law is as much a matter of policy as the issue of harmonising our European future with our European neighbours, with our neighbours from the region. That's why I'm asking you all to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44235	We move to a debate on the proposed laws in order of the MPs according to the application for a word. I give the word "Goldi Đeric" first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, Madam President, we have reached two legislative projects ahead of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to be adopted. We have already heard from the presentation of previous speakers, and above all from the president of the Transport Committee, who said that the first draft of the law, the law governing air traffic in the Republic of Serbia, is very problematic by not knowing at all what text of the law we will adopt until the end, because the purpose of the adoption of this law is to regulate the area of air traffic in the Republic of Serbia, which is certainly a constitutional obligation, to establish the system principles, rules and competences in the Serbian Air Force, to regulate all this according to world and especially European standards, because Serbia has committed itself to a series of international contracts that this Assembly has ratified. This should in short be the purpose of this law, however, by putting 41 amendments to the draft law which has been submitted to the National Assembly, we come to the dilemma that this text will ultimately be and what we have even submitted the amendments to and how the law will ultimately be, how good that law is at all. We heard that there was a bill that had already been prepared and that could have been in that original text here in front of the National Assembly because it passed the highest marks and got the best grades in the EU and right now we have a dilemma whether and in any way about this law to discuss, how to correct the amendments, how can the minister defend this law before us, when he himself knows that he has to replace it to the end and that the whole area of the Serbian Air Force is arranged in a rather unencipated, poor way, in a way that satisfies some interesting lobbys more than the real purpose of passing this law. Of course, if this 41 amendments to the government, which the Government has put on its proposal, which is really a change in the original text in a pretty large amount, then it will be in line with what the EU has asked for from this text of the law, but then we come to another dilemma, which is what the government wanted in the first place, and why the government came into conflict with itself, putting MPs, the National Assembly, the Minister of Government and itself in this situation at all. So what we think is that air traffic is more than any other infrastructure segment is an inevitable factor in economic development, both in terms of international exchange of goods and services, development of tourism potentials, and the number of jobs it creates only if it works well. One word, air traffic is the engine of every country's economy, and with this bill of law, we're afraid that engine could be shut down. What has already been proposed would be good if, while doing business, these proposed amendments were withdrawn and brought as a serious legal project before the MPs of the National Assembly. The purpose of this law is certainly to establish order according to European standards, which we are obliged to introduce if we want to have at all what is called the open sky, where we have already introduced Serbia, and what is our ultimate obligation. In front of the NS parliamentary group and as a national MP, I really think that Mr. Minister, on the basis of what Mr. Ilic, as former minister of resolution, has turned his attention, should consider that this legislative project, the law on air traffic in the Republic of Serbia, should be delivered in one appropriate way to the Assembly, amended, not to change it like this, even in an ugly way, and brought to the pride of the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian Air Force, for the benefit of Serbia's citizens and in line with what the EU is asking us to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44237	Mr. Jovan Nesovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44238	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, we have two traffic and traffic laws in each country as one of the important business branches, so these two laws should be seen as important for the future development of Serbia's country as a whole. The first law is air traffic law. It is important from an economic, economic and from the point of view of total social life in one country. He's got a different line, and that's a strategic line. The country's definition is EU membership, and with this law, they are trying to install all the positive legal provisions that are related to European legislation, and we need to install them into our laws so that we can meet the requirements of the Action Plan set up by the state of Serbia. It is true that this law was scheduled to be passed in 2007-2008. It is a little late and should be acknowledged that a report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress has given a special remark on why this law has not been passed so far. What is also important to emphasise is that this law regulates civil aviation in the state of Serbia and defines the regulations and conditions that should be provided by legal persons, entrepreneurs who want to provide services in the field of aviation. The conditions have also been defined to have a safe and secure air force in accordance with European laws. What should also be pointed out is that this law was also at a public hearing. He's been at the public hearing for a long time. For a long time, it was also discussed by all those interested factors, when I say interested factors, I thought of the professional public, the people of the ministries, JAT, the Directorate for Flight Control, the Faculty of Traffic from Belgrade, all had enough time to make certain remarks on this law and even in the making of the law were also involved by representatives of the European Commission through some projects financed by the EU. Their consultants worked on making these laws, so this law passed a broad public debate. It is true that 41 amendments of the government have appeared. These are the amendments that came from the European Commission. What I'm saying is that we've been talking about this for a long time on the Traffic Committee. If I recall correctly, this bill was sent to the European Commission in May or June. It was long waiting for the European Commission to make its remarks to the government and at one point assessed to meet the requirement of the Action Plan to go before the government, or before the Assembly with the law. Meanwhile, there have been objections that are of a technical nature. They are not fundamental remarks regarding the law, so it happened that the government respected what the European Commission asked for, and therefore it happened that because of the speed of fulfillment of this Action Plan, which was defined by the Serbian state, that these objections should be incorporated into the assembly procedure and that we should receive one quality law. What is important to note is who will be influenced by this law. The law will have an impact on the aviation industry. It will have a direct impact on air service providers and users. It will have a direct impact on aviation personnel and will have a direct impact on the authorities of the state who are doing aviation. The law allows for raising the level of security and security, which today is an imperative in the world in the field of aviation and establishing obligations, permanent and periodic, as well as air control. The other thing that is also important, which is defined by law, is to standardise certain permits that are in accordance with European standards, so that any air personnel that receive appropriate permits and aircraft that are also given appropriate permits, people who are educated and given appropriate permits can use them both in the state of Serbia and in any EU country, because that permit will not be Serbian, but let me say "European", which is important because of the transfer of knowledge between people working in this business. What is also important is that this law liberalises the market, which means that service prices are reduced, which means better quality for citizens and that means that we will have more passengers to transport from our airports and travel around the world. The second thing, I think it can be led by controversy, it's something that's inevitable, this law will help and speed up the restructuring of our public enterprises, JAT, for the simple reason that if you have competition to be market-oriented and that you can withstand that competition, you have to do your restructuring, adapt to new market conditions. What we're leading the controversy about is whether this company should be protected or not? I am absolutely sure that when the market is liberalized, our businesses and the people who work there will make it the maximum possible for them to be restructured as soon as possible and that they can be adequate in the competition, that they can work for the functioning of their business and for their salaries. This law incorporates all those standards provided for in certain conventions, which means that all requirements relating to something called the European sky are met, which means that as a country we will be a member of all EU countries and that around 500 million people will be able to use air traffic, both here and in any EU country. There is a large market of 500 million people and it is clear that there will be new economic operators in our next period who will want to deal with this type of traffic, that is, this economic branch. We must work to strengthen the existing, JAT and some of the other organizations that exist with us. They'll have to strengthen maintenance organizations and training centres for people working in the air force. Technically, this law will cover and regulate areas related to air safety, air space protection, air navigation, air traffic management, air traffic management, air traffic management, air traffic services, air traffic, air traffic, air services, air traffic protection, air traffic protection, noise and gas emissions, accident investigation and aircraft accidents, relief, air security, surveillance and air traffic violations with criminal provisions. What I particularly want to say and look back at two things that, I think, are very important in this law, which is the Directorate of the Civil Aviation of the Republic of Slovenia. It is an organization that is very important and has respected the European Commission's recommendations that, financially, the Directorate of the Civil Aviation of the Republic of Slovenia should be a financial independent institution and it is organised as a public agency which will have certain fees to provide and provide certain services, which will be their source of funding. On the other hand, it must be a very professional organisation, i.e. a public institution, and it is simply very difficult if there is a mix of the daily policy and the functioning of that institution. For this reason, in order not to interfere with this day-to-day policy, it seems to me that it is very important that it has an independent funding, and that the policy can also in some way influence and control the work of that public institution, it is important that in the board of directors who have five members sits five ministers, and I think that is simply where financial independence is achieved, but also control from the other side. Because it's the board that adopts the annual financial plan of operations and the financial plan report for the previous year, so I just think that all the illogicalities that have been in organisations so far can be corrected. It is very important that people work at the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia must be well-trained, not only in running training, but in the coming period. They must have all the positive, or all the new solutions that are introduced into the air force that they can apply, in order for our Directorate to be shoulder to shoulder with other directorates from other developed countries and, simply, what is said here would be those who might be under that control and leader in the Balkans, and perhaps wider. The second thing is something that is in this law, it also seems to me the first time, defined, and it's about protecting the environment, it's about noise at airports and harmful air-emitting gases. A certain fee will be paid there, but it is important how the fee is spent - 60%, that is the bill, goes to the revenues of the airport itself, and 40% goes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and goes to that Environmental Protection Fund. Of these 60% that go to the airport register, they are designed to reduce the harmfulness of these effects and these exhausts, and that 40% goes to the Environment Fund, it is intended to create strategic maps of noise and action plans, which should reduce this harmful impact on people and the environment. When everything is looked at, it seems to me that this law is good, and I am absolutely sure it will help to include our country in Serbia's single airspace, and I am sure that this assembly in the voting day will adopt it. As for the second law, the law on navigation and ports on internal waters, it is also a technical law. It also plays an important role in bringing domestic legislation into line with EU legislation. Everything we've adopted, a number of resolutions related to this area, have been incorporated into this law. Also, certain recommendations and protocols related to the decisions of the Danube Commission and the international Commission for the Sava River Basin have been incorporated. The law defines exactly the areas to which it applies. For the sake of time, I want to say that this law is also important, for the simple reason that today our shipowners are subject to very rigorous conditions and strict requirements when they sail to other countries. They are simply subject to conditions that are not yet in force with us. It is perfectly normal that the position of other shipmen arriving from other countries in our territory is better than ours on their territory. I think it is very important that the same rules apply to us, that others are the same as in their own countries, as I think they will be of great benefit to domestic shipmen. On the other hand, I am sure that the application of this law will require optimal capacity engagement in internal water transport. That means I'm sure there will be a development of this economic branch. It certainly means hiring people in this area, which I think is very important for Serbia at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44239	Thank you, Mr. Nesovic. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44240	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr Minister, the DS will certainly support these two European laws. I can explain a lot of things about this law now, but first of all, I'd like to answer some criticism and some arguments, but also some unargued criticism when it comes to this law. Sometimes criticism can be the fruit of a desire to improve the law and really come to a good and quality law. I understand that such criticism is made through appropriate amendments and that we accept these amendments or do not accept them. Sometimes criticism can be a fruit of evil intent and ignorance. So in the debate of some of our predecessors, we criticised the salary of one of our fellow citizens, who, filling out the tax returns, wrote that he was working in flight control. I have information and a report from flight control that such a salary has never been paid at the Flight Control Agency. When you fill out a tax application, you can write there from being a cosmonaut, an astronaut, a magician, until you're an MP of a party and write down any salary and income you want, it's not being checked in the IRS to see if someone really is interested or not. That's why it's not nice to label people from the Flight Control Agency in such an inappropriate way, because it's not about the salary paid at the Flight Control Agency. On the other hand, the Aviation Control Agency is a company formed with 92% of the capital of the Republic of Serbia and 8% of the capital of the Republic of Montenegro, at a time when we lived together in the state community. I don't see why it bothers anyone that the Republic of Serbia plans companies that generate good income and profit and which are subject to control every day, at any moment, at all times by the law of the Republic of Serbia. No one can avoid criminal responsibility if they make a certain failure in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, we are all equal before the law, including those who work at the Flying Control Agency. Further what's important to point out. The agency is working on the territory of Croatia, the international waters of the Adriatic, BiH, and it would be good, instead of labeling these people, to congratulate them on the fact that there has been no incident in the airspace of the Republic of Serbia in the past. They're people who are responsible, at any moment, doing their job. We haven't had any plane crashes, no more serious incident, which speaks to the professionality of these people. When in such an inappropriate way someone tries to label these people, why do you do it? To show in front of the world that nothing in Serbia is right and that everything is only better if you will, if you would eventually come to power? That's not nice because of those people who work there. It's not nice because of the state of Serbia that you represent. This is not good because these also broadcasts of these meetings of the congregations beside us, and some people of the world observe, and they will say, “The opposition says that this service is not good for them.” Say it's something good, when it's good, and when it's wrong, you don't need to just say something that's wrong. We're aware something's wrong, so we'll confirm it. But when something is good, let us not destroy what good we have and what is valuable and beneficial. In particular, I must resent one interpretation of Article 266, where it is said that the people of the Directorate will remain directors at the end of the term of office. In fact, here is the fact that one agency only gets a new name, and that the director and deputy director will remain in that agency after automation, but not until the end of the world, until the end of the term. No one here has been given anything private, to be his private property, this is a state-owned agency with state capital that I'm withdrawing, operating in accordance with, among other things, with this law that we're passing tonight. However, the Republic of Serbia is in a situation in which it is located. It's like having a car that left Nis for Belgrade and somewhere near Paracino and Tzupre ran out of gas. Now everyone on the side says -- you'd drive that car faster and better. Michael Shumaher can drive it, but he doesn't need to be driven, he needs to be pushed. If we all push him up this big hill, then we will achieve our goal at the end of our term. If we push it, and you lift the hand brake or push in the opposite direction, it's not good, especially for you, and it's not good for Serbia either. We'll certainly push harder forward than you pull back. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, at the end of his presentation, let me thank you on behalf of the citizens of Kruševec for that bypass that was completed within the deadline. No car crash was there, although everyone laughed and claimed it was bad. No man has been killed since that bypass was completed, and therefore I ask you to make two more circular flows in Makreshan and Kosov, so that we can really make European roads that lead us forward and into Serbia and push the car uphill together.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44241	Mr. Markovic, there's no reason for replication. You can't get the word. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44242	We are talking about two very important laws today, and this is the proposal for air traffic laws and the proposal for laws on navigation and ports on internal waters. As MPs used to say before me, so have I and the DSS MPs mostly and we experience these two very important system laws, that in principle there are two technical laws and that there are many alignments between our legal regulations in this area because we know that the laws governing air traffic are about 15 years old, and there have been major changes in Europe and the world, so we understand the need to pass these two new laws. When it comes to the draft air traffic law, what is not good is that you sent us a proposal, immediately thereafter you sent 41 amendments, so the government sends a proposal, after a few days the Government sends amendments to its own proposal, so that we are practically not aware of what bill we are talking about at this point. We can only assume that your amendments, now we're talking about the amendments that came from the government, will be accepted and voted in the Assembly, but you have to admit that we don't know this right now and you can't guarantee it either, so today we're having a debate on another text of the one that actually exists through your amendments. It would have been better if you had pulled this law out of the process, in one day you put in that paper and then returned it to us, then we'd have a clear text in front of us. When it comes to sailing law and ports on internal waters, of course, and there it was necessary to make changes and pass a whole new law. It seems to me that the laws of a time when there was a common state with Montenegro are, therefore, definitely out of practice. What can be resented in this law is the transfer of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina when it comes to some rivers in Vojvodina. You're men of the profession and you know better than I do, that traffic doesn't take the limit, that it doesn't suffer that kind of chopping, that it's practically one whole. We have learned from the press that a train and a joint venture of Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia has already started. So, after 20 years of tampering, disunity, etc., people of the profession sat down and saw that it wasn't worth it, so now they've made a joint venture again. How can we figure this out? As a political interference in laws, where this should not be done, or this is simply a prelude that will allow the Prime Minister of Vojvodina Bojan Pajtic to hang, for example, tables on which he will write: "He handed over to the citizens of the Vojvodina River Tamis", Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic. It's the only way we can figure this out. The DSS Parliament Club has submitted amendments to some members, where we have assessed that there is political interference, so it is up to you to read it and decide whether you will accept it. Now I'd like to say a few words about road traffic and about what's currently going on in the construction of Corridor 10, specifically on the detour around Dimitrovgrad and what's been going on for the last month. I can tell there's been a blockade. I wish Minister Mrkonjic would listen to me, but he's on the phone right now. Okay. Before I inform you, let's say, what happened today and how 15 members of the MUP, or police officers, took people off their property so that they could continue their work by force, I'll read the stenographic notes, the minister has been an MP for many years, he was also vice president of the Assembly, and he knows how neatly in this house we keep stenographic notes. I'll read the stenographic notes since 30 October 2009, so almost a year ago. The minister may recall this presentation, but in order to remind him and all of you, I will read the parts of these stenographic notes, where I pointed out a year ago that problem of land expropriation in the municipality of Dimitrovgrad, and the occasion was that we were conducting a single search on the confirmation of the loan agreement, the project Corridor 10 highway between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So that was exactly a year ago. Minister, that's when I wanted to inform you about the problem, so he's over a year old. I want to draw your attention to a problem that has been in place for several months in the municipality of Dimitrovgrad, and it's about land expropriation. It's the part of the commitment that the state has to carry out quality, without any problems and disputes with the owners, so that the project itself of this part of the Corridor is done in quality. Almost since August 2009, there has been a problem between the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and the land owner in Dimitrovgrad that is scheduled for expropriation. To short the story, the representatives of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", I am talking about something that happened a year ago, offered owners from 260 to 320 dinars per meter, again, that they were fields and gardens. So it's not about some guds. There's a little work in Dimitrov City. The salary is received by those who work in budgetary institutions: schools, municipalities, local self-government, etc. Companies aren't working. So it seems to me that no city is a victim of a transition like Dimitrovgrad. These citizens, themselves, and their families, feed because they have gardens, fields and somehow survive. So it's about that type of land and that quality. Then, we came up with information, and you know it better than I do, that in some other municipalities, much more was paid for land. For example, in Presevo municipality, owners received up to ten euros. Then, in the municipality of Piroth, it is a neighbouring municipality, it is the same quality of land, the owners received 1,036 dinars, so almost 10 euros. So land owners in Dimitrovgrad are really wondering why such relations are with them and why in some other local self-government prices have been better served. Then a year ago I informed you of the various pressures that have been made, which of the people, I do not want to mention names from the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", which is from people from local self-government. So, people were literally detained and threatened with cancellations, in various ways they were persuaded to accept that price from two to three marks, while in the neighbouring municipality of Pirot, owners received ten euros. I'm sorry, I mixed up the currency. I can tell you there's quite a media block. The owners of these parcels addressed me as a national MP, and a year ago I asked you to look at the problem and to get rid of it, and to the satisfaction of "The Way of Serbia" and these citizens, and besides from all over Serbia, because Corridor 10 is a really important traffic station. Now I'm going to read the answer you gave me to that question on October 30th. I'm reading the stenographic notes. You said to me, "The answer to Mrs. Donkey. I'm in Dimitrov City on Tuesday. We know it's a liquid problem. What you said about pressures, that's out of the question. No one can pressure our citizens. You know my attitude. Therefore, we will sanction it immediately, but we will see that no citizen, this is the position of this government, is being damaged by the realization of these significant projects." So, I quoted you from October 2009. Meanwhile, the problem has not been resolved, these disputes are in court, and none of the owners of these parcels have been invited to the first hearing. So that problem remains unsolved. The works on that bypass started, and you know it, too. But about 15 days ago, the machines arrived at that first disputed plot. The owners of the plots organized, and nearly 15 days and nights simply built some kind of barricade, blockades, and did not allow machines to enter that first disputed plot. It is known that standing these machines is a great loss for the Republic of Serbia. There were even some notifications they received from the Alpina people, that it was even 20,000 euros a day, if the mechanism stands. So if we multiply it by 15 days, then much greater damage is due to the fact that these disputes are not resolved than they would have been if these people had been compensated, as have other citizens in Serbia. So there's nothing to be asked beyond what's been solved with other people. Again, all the pressures were on, the owners were invited, they were threatened by layoffs, not them, because they were middle-aged people who had been out of work for a long time, they were on the team, to tell the blockades, but now they're moving on, they're threatening the children of those people who work, that they're going to get fired.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44243	The word has an emissary Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44244	Dear Presidents, respected representatives of the proposings, colleagues and colleagues, we have two other laws from the European Agenda tonight, and this is the proposal for air traffic law and the proposal for laws on port navigation on internal waters, certainly two roof system laws in this area, and it is certain that these two laws are a continuation of the process of harmonising domestic rules with EU regulations and standards. In addition to the above mentioned proposal for air traffic laws and the proposal for a law on inland port navigation, new solutions are contained in line with changes made in social, economic and property-law relations established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and adopted systemic solutions. When we talk about these two laws, I simply cannot remind all of us of the importance of the geostrategic position of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the fact, on the one hand, that water transport is the cheapest kind of transport and, on the other hand, that the globalisation of the market and the rapid pace of life requires faster traffic, and I primarily mean air traffic. Certainly these two areas require their synchronisation with international regulations. I'd like to talk more about the Air Traffic Law proposal, which will be the first time in the field of civil aviation. I'm really going to try not to repeat in my presentation what my colleagues at the Parliament Club have already brought out. Otherwise, the draft air traffic law, which is today in front of us, presents a proposal to meet the responsibilities of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. The proposed material solutions will also establish and distinguish the competences of the authorities of the state administration and other bodies operating in the air, as well as their responsibilities and powers. The draft law regulates the conditions for the security and safety of air traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia relating to aviation safety, air space protection, air navigation, air traffic management, air traffic management, air navigation services, air traffic, airports, air products, parts, devices and equipment, air personnel, noise protection and gas emissions, accident investigation and air accidents, surveillance and air violations. The application of this law will allow conditions for the improvement of the national aviation industry and create new investment benefits in the industry. The adoption of this draft law and its implementation will create assumptions for the establishment of a higher degree of efficiency in the operation of all aviation entities and speed up competition, as the aviation service market opens. What I would particularly point out is the opening of new market opportunities for domestic air carriers to access a common European air space, which, by some estimates, will include 35 countries with potential 500 million users. Of course, when I'm talking about this law, I can't kind of bring it closer to the citizens of the middle I come from, and that's the municipality of Zitiste and the Centralbanat County, where seven kilometers from Zrenjanin there's an Ecka Airport, where the first stage of the works was done and the license was obtained. Otherwise, it's only used for training and sports purposes. However, local authorities are certainly trying to find a strategic partner to complete the second phase of these works. I believe that the creation of a legal framework in this area is extremely important, as the completion of the "Ecka" Airport's work phase would lead to the development of not only the Zrenjanin and the Mediterranean district, but the entire region as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44245	The word has been sent by Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44246	I'm sorry we're discussing such an important matter when the assembly transfer is interrupted and that in the late hours it will continue and I'm sure you're as aware as I am, that it's not an accident. Why was this debate left behind for these hours and with such a small number of MPs? So that the mantra of the European Directives or EU adaptation would get naked in a way that I would help my colleagues who had spoken before me to expose themselves and that the topic I was talking about months ago tonight would get their epilogue. First of all, I have one question for those who talk, I don't expect an answer, but I have a question. The European Directive exists, there is a European standard and there is a goal in life, but the mechanism as the standard, goal or directive is achieved is implemented, applied and prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This means that the "sugar" mess means that we have stimulated producers of raw materials and sugar to abuse one directive, one good intention of repacking and falsely representing the origin of sugar. Or, as the citizens understand, the goal is to finish college and be, for example, an example. A graduate lawyer, but you can get at least two ways. One is that you work hard, you pass exams and you finish college, and the other is to buy a degree at one of the colleges where it's possible or go to those groups of five-six students, allegedly better familiarizing teamwork, prescribing seminar papers, and so get to the law degree and achieve the goal – I finished college and became a lawyer. So, don't convince the citizens that this is the EU's demand that has worked so far and as prescribed by this law now, because experience, even if Slovenia, is closest to us in many ways, says that it is not the only way to control the sky and achieve European standards that we have applied. Why am I so energetic, almost a little angry, if you'll excuse me? It's a good taste for someone tonight to praise the results of the Flight Control Agency d.o.o. companies also praise the successes and pump money into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Who doesn't know, I'll remind you, it's not the sky over Serbia's property of the Flight Control Agency. No, it's not, it's a natural good, and it's a resource that the state has to take care of, and it didn't lead. I am afraid that such a hearty defense of my colleagues from the government confirms doubts that I did not want to believe, that, in fact, the huge amount of money being poured into the Civil Aviation Directorate and the Flight Control Agency is serving in some redistribution that cannot be called legal, controlled and that it is possibly accounted for by the finance minister through the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying that? The request to be delivered on the basis of my presentations, and under the law of free access to information, the contract under which it was formed. The airline control agency between Serbia and Montenegro, as it is said, is reportedly completed on 31 October 2003, perhaps concluded, we have submitted a request to the Government and the competent authorities to deliver the contract to us or at least to say to the official list of any kind of official message published, to make sure and to see on the basis of which the Agency was founded. So far we've got nothing on this, but you laughed together here with me when you saw that the basis for the establishment of those organs was in the Ministry Act -- a member who was treated by the Ministry of Diaspora. This served at one point to the Civil Aviation Directorate as the basis for regulations. Why are you passing this law right now? Here, I'll explain to those who pretend they don't know, and maybe they don't. On 28 May 2010, a statement on the 21st regular session of the Constitutional Court, chaired by Dr Bosa Nenadic, in the cases of the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the general legal acts, the Constitutional Court launched a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the decision on the exercise of founding rights in the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Serbian-Montenegro State, the "Official Journal" of 53/06, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it assessed that the issue of consent to that decision was raised with the provisions of 97, 123 and 137. The constitution, which determines that the Republic of Serbia regulates and secures the regime and security of all types of traffic. Furthermore, that certain powers of law can be entrusted to companies, institutions, organisations and individuals, that the Government enforces the laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and adopts regulations and other general acts for the enforcement of the law, as well as the assessment of constitutionality and legality with the provisions of the State Administration Act, which prescribe that only certain public administration transactions can be entrusted to public authorities, that ministries and special organisations can only adopt regulations when they are explicitly authorised by the law or by the government, and the Civil Aviation Directorate has not been, and I have shown here to you the "Official Messenger" where the regulations that this body has been unauthorized. These regulations cannot determine their or other jurisdictions, nor establish rights and obligations for natural persons which have not already been established by law, and the provisions of the Ministry Act, which determine as part of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the conduct of tasks in the security of the traffic system, have decided to suspend the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the rules on the method of accounting and the level of compensation of services provided by this Directorate and adopted by the Civil Aviation Directorate, until a decision on the constitutional and legal basis of that decision has been taken. Should anyone in this assembly say more, a lawyer, economist, an interested, caring citizen from the government or the opposition, after what I read to you from the 21st regular session of the Constitutional Court held on 28 May? No, he doesn't need someone who appreciates his constitutional court, who wants to respect his constitutional court. I'm really asking you not to call me here even for the rules of Eurocontrol, because it says here that total funds are being charged, are being held back, etc. To repeat, more than 400m euros were illegally left outside of the Serbian budget and not one of those who were the Ministers of Infrastructure, present or past, finance ministers, but individuals who were a monopoly on the management of something that was good for all of us to abuse for private purposes. So much for that. I wonder if anyone has read the Law on sailing and ports on the inner waters. To open a debate in these late hours for amendments and to draw attention only to the fact that the whole law was passed because of Articles 214, 217, 225 and 233, where you only try to question some of the results of privatisation, and to those in the port of action where you foresee a way to subtract what was acquired through privatisation, taking a key date, we called it Youth Day 2003, where you make a waterworks, everything that was done by May 25th has one treatment, and everything that was done after May 25th has another treatment. Since I promised the president that we wouldn't use all the time of 25 minutes, I'm going to finish the debate now, but I've run for the questions we're going to discuss in the discussion of details, and I hope that your colleagues, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, at least have an interest in the constitutionality of these procedures you're taking at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44247	I give my word to Members Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44248	Dear Presidents, respected representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, unlike the Air Traffic Law proposal, which has caused a major controversy on the Committee on Transport and Communications for nearly two hours, I see that this controversy is going on here, and I refer to the law on navigation and ports on internal waters. I can only tell that he was on the Traffic and Communications Committee without a single remark. As regards the current legislation currently in force, it is the Internal Navigation Act and the Maritime Internal Navigation Act. They are currently regulating this extremely important area. After the disintegration of the former state and the takeover of responsibilities from the area of water traffic by the Republic of Serbia, there was a need for materials in the field of navigation to be aligned with the situation. Of course, the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also provides for an obligation to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The absence of an emergency law could result in adverse effects on water transport from the point of view of navigation security and the protection of general interest in ports and ports. In particular, the current situation in this branch of transport characterizes a poor situation in which there is an inspection of the safety of navigation, the ship's obsolescence and the obsolescence of the rules of conduct of inspection, the non-adjustment of national rules of navigation with rules adopted at pan-European level, and the need for urgent protection of general interest in ports in which, as a result of the lack of adequate regulatory follow-up of port operations, is questioned. The proposal for a sailing law and ports on internal waters, which is on the agenda today, regulates the regime and security of navigation on the interior waters of the Republic of Serbia. This bill contains new solutions in line with changes made in social, economic and property-law relations established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Conditions are also prescribed that must meet the waterways for safe sailing. The vessel's capacity to sail crews, search and rescue ports and ports, surveillance and other related to navigation shall be regulated. It is very important to say that this bill clearly distinguishes competences in the field of safety of navigation, use, maintenance, marking and protection of waterways, ports, winterers, anchors, and also the exercise of inspection controls. One of the most significant reasons for the adoption of the bill is full compliance of the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia with EU law. The bill introduces eight directives, regulations and EU statements into domestic legislation. In addition to international conventions, resolutions and agreements, which are taken into account when drawing up this bill, some positive solutions by neighbouring Danube countries, such as Austria, Hungary and Croatia, have been adopted. The bill also contains some provisions in force so far of the Law on Maritime Inland Navigation, which did not need to be changed. It is important to say that the law highlights the importance of water traffic development as well as ports and ports for the Republic of Serbia. The strategy for the development of water transport of the Republic of Serbia also regulates the country's long-term development of water transport and is brought to ten years. Otherwise, the strategy is brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The bill will also have a positive impact on a significant increase in compliance with the rules of safe navigation by strengthening the role of inspection. The application of the bill will encourage the arrival on the domestic market of shipowners, whose panel meets today's applicable technical requirements that ships must meet, and the arrival of port operators on the market of new port services. It is important to say that the economic operators involved in the internal water transport through their representatives of the association had the opportunity to make a statement on the draft law in the context of a public debate, held from 28 April to 25 May this year, at several round tables. It should be noted that they supported this bill. In the voting day, I will support this bill as well as the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44249	National MP Nikola Savic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the Law on Road Safety, today in a united procedure we are considering two other laws in this area, which are air traffic law and the law on navigation and ports on internal waters. I have to say, it's a good thing that traffic laws are passed, that are regulated and harmonised by these laws with modern currents. It is also good that agreements are signed with individual countries in this area, because here in this assembly we have heard from many colleagues from all parliamentary groups that traffic is one of the most important sides of each country. Of course, the good thing that this law is passed is that the conditions are practically created for the Republic of Serbia to assume constitutional jurisdiction over the areas of air traffic and internal navigation, because so far the laws have been passed in this area at the time of the former SRJ, i.e. the former Serbia-Montenegro community. That's why we're hoping that the procedure will soon find some other laws in this area, and above all, I'm thinking about the law in the area of rail traffic. Mr. Minister is present, and I believe he will confirm that when he takes the word and responds to the MPs. These laws, and I mean these two laws on navigation and air traffic, are passed in an emergency procedure. But you put them on the agenda of a session that's scheduled for a regular session, and for that you've had all of September, and I just want to say, that's how much you respect what you stand for. The basic reason for adopting these reasons for an emergency procedure is that of bringing our legislation closer to EU legislation. I can even accept this reason in some ways, because the traffic and activity and the area where our country is most integrated in the EU itself is also three of our biggest neighbours Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary are members of the EU and I say, this may also be a reason for an emergency procedure. The question arises, which is why you've waited until now. There, in one part of the air traffic law, you are talking about the fact that by the end of 2010, Serbia should have access to a common airspace of 35 countries and more than 500 million inhabitants, but we already see that it will not be adopted by the end of this year. However, here I have said something that is good with these laws, as well as with all your laws, in these laws, as well as especially with the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, there have been relevant failures and it is obvious that the promoter has not taken sufficient care of all aspects of this law. What are they looking at? First of all, the laws in some of their segments are not clear enough, and the good works are inapplicable, you will see later on what is going on, and we have seen opportunities to see it in some other laws. However, this is not the biggest flaw of this law. These laws abound with many things that are completely contrary to the declared policy of Serbia and the laws and the declared interests of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, here I will illustrate it with only two examples, one example from the area of air traffic and one example from the area of water traffic. For example, the air traffic law in certain cases provides that under certain conditions a foreign aircraft may be allowed to carry active loaded fire, rocket or bomb weapons, or when it comes to internal navigation law, or water traffic, there is once again foreseen that a foreign nuclear vessel can be found in our internal waters, our ports and our ports. As far as I know, Serbia is militaryly neutral, Serbia is not a member of any military alliance, and this government is just representing the fact that NATO membership is not our priority now, and I really don't understand why these things are in the law. Perhaps in the perspective of this or some future government will put its accession to NATO, of course, against what we are in the SRS, but until that happens I really don't think these things should be dealt with. As far as air traffic law is concerned, it is said in one place in the law that conditions for the provision of services for the needs of the Serbian Army are confirmed by contracts and that the previous agreement is given to governments. It's okay, we agree with that. However, the SRS believes that, in addition to the government's consent, there is also a need to call on the relevant assembly committees. For what? Well, you all know that we've had one big affair, the Davinic affair, and so that something like that doesn't happen again, but I think we should have the congregation's authority here to influence them. In this law, for example, the word "air carrier" is mentioned, and we all know that the Serbian word is "air carrier" and that is one technical thing. In this sense, the SRS has submitted amendments, and I think something like that should be corrected. As far as this law is concerned, it's about the Civil Aviation Directorate's Management Board. It says that the board of directors should count five members, consisting of ministers of traffic, internal affairs, environmental protection, defence and finance. I think there's a conflict of interest here on the most classic example, and not just that. What will happen, say, if a future government were formed so that some of these five ministries here are joined into one, let's say, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior, and then, in that case, the intended board would not count five but four members, and then we would have to re-change the law just for that. As far as the Port Law is concerned, it is indeed very important and very extensive laws. I don't think it's good that you put them together in one debate, but I also have to say something to this law on ports and inland navigation. I believe that this law should ensure that Serbia's navigation potential, the navigation potential of our rivers, is exploited, however, there is not a word in it. Inland waterways have exceptional importance for the entire economy of our country and investment in this area could in any case trigger the momentum of our fallen economy and the whole country to pull out of the crisis. Everyone knows who the water rivers are – Danube, Tisa, Sava, one part and other rivers, however, they are not used nearly enough because the waterways are in such a state that they are not maintained in an adequate manner. I mentioned the rivers, but I also have to mention the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel. The Danube-Tisa-Dunav Channel is in desperate condition. Everybody knows that. It doesn't clean regularly, and in some places it's completely crowded. We all know that the previous generations have invested a lot of effort, sweat and money to make this channel, so I read somewhere that some parts of this channel started working back in Mary Teresa's day. My colleagues in Vojvodina may know better than I do. This canal, apart from irrigation, which is its primary role, through certain investment and modernisation, by maintenance, could turn into a single water channel and thus reduce transport costs. We know that transport costs greatly affect the price of all products. We have another illogicality here when it comes to this law on inland navigation and ports. That's what one of my colleagues was talking about. Namely, when it comes to maintenance and inspection operations on state waterways, there are certain irregularities. When does this happen? So let's say in those cases when that waterway represents a border between the autonomous province and the rest of the Republic. If the waterway is complete in the territory of the autonomous province, however, we have many such situations where the waterways represent the border between the autonomous province of Vojvodina in this case and the rest of Serbia. Let's say, what happens if in the middle of the Sava River, somewhere between Capac and Ruma, a barrier is found that interferes with navigation, which must be removed and that obstacle lies on both sides of the imagined border line? Then who will be in charge, whether the circuit or the republican organs? Furthermore, in this law on water and ports there are some concepts that are not defined at all, less known terms such as the concepts of neperi, devolution and so on, but there are some common concepts that are defined, and there is defined the concept of traveller, rest, etc., which are the concepts that are known to everyone. A special case of this law is ports. I have the impression that this law is passed precisely because of the ports, in order to give legitimacy to all irregularities related to Luka Belgrade. I'm not gonna hang on to it, my colleagues are gonna talk about this thing any more. Once again, there is one thing about the conditions under which foreign vessels can sail. In fact, EU vessels are privileged in relation to other countries' vessels. We are not yet a member of the EU and of the SRS, not that any country's vessels, whether they are from the EU or other countries, should have the same treatment, not that one has the privilege of dealing with others. In the end, let me say one more thing. One member speaks of damaged objects and substances, or of their release. In fact, this member is absolutely inaccurate and the SRS has submitted amendments because you here in the law put the terms in the same level – discharge, discharge and spilling. Of course, it's meant for harmful objects and matter. There's supposed to be a difference here. The spilling is a process that takes place beyond one's will, in this case past the will of the ship's commander. It's just that someone can't be banned from doing something that doesn't have an impact, while, say, dropping it and throwing it away is a different thing. Dropping and disposing are concepts that mean that someone is doing it on purpose. Then, in that case, people should bear sanctions. You say again – if someone drops or drops, and it is obvious that they can only do it with intent, it is necessary to inform the nearest port captainship about it. You don't expect someone who did this to harm themselves to report yourself to someone for damage done?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44251	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44252	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, as a member of the Transport Committee, there have been major objections to this law precisely because of the 40 amendments tabled by the government. However, it was decided on the Committee that these amendments essentially do not amend this law, which is not true, because looking at these amendments, I noticed that they are fundamentally changing this law. As my colleagues said in their discussion, these two laws are contrary and I felt that they should be separated, because if air traffic law is discussed and the shipping law they have nothing to do with each other. All right, you can do anything, so according to that, it can be day and day night. You showed that on October 5th when you came to power. I think this government, using all this air traffic and water facilities, will probably go into history, so where it's going to hang. The reasons for the adoption of this law are, as you have reported, in the area of achieving the constitutional competence of the RS in the field of aviation, as well as the conditions for air traffic in the territory of the RS, with respect and application of the most important standards of security in the EU countries. I can, as an SRS MP, certainly as a citizen of the Serbian state and as a man, as far as security is concerned, I support the need to take care. I cannot understand that only this applies to the EU or to EU aircraft, aircraft from the EU. All the other countries that use aircraft at our airport don't apply to them. The goal here is to allow, in addition to security, conditions for improving the aviation industry in the Republic of Serbia. It is reportedly necessary to open up new advantages and investment routes in this industry. Also, I want a higher flow of capital because the air services market is being created. I understand, and it is normal to use airports, opportunities where a certain business transaction can certainly be done and the possibility should be used to employ a large number of citizens. I can't understand you talking about something you've already destroyed. The airline was destroyed. I am a technical face and I know about what Serbia possessed. What are you saying you want to raise the level in that airline? Surely you do not think the same thing that happened in Kragujevac that we want to raise the level of the automotive industry, which, unfortunately, you know well, where and how it will bring Serbia, or this time you want to say that the airline can exist in Serbia. It's probably the EU's reputation, so I'm afraid that one day when a peasant dives his field and lets his furrow stand, he stops, sees if the beard is the same as in the EU. That's what I'm afraid of, ladies and gentlemen, because we need to know very well, and you know who you are sitting in these chairs, where this EU is taking us. You know well that after the Friday revolution, all the airmen who drove the government and then the Ministry of which they were, they were Canet Subotic's planes. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, should this law allow Serbian authorities, as well as domestic magnets, to enjoy the air flights of their new planes to replace their expensive cars? That was my question, too. They know those who were on the Traffic Committee. We don't mind that in the privatisation process, which is criminally done in Serbia, it is likely that this one day too happens to privatise the airport, because it seems to me that these laws are going that way. Okay, probably like everything that's been going on negatively in Serbia, it's still likely that the government's trend and a certain ministry is. What should be further noted is, ladies and gentlemen, how these airports and planes were abused in the largest, let's say, transactions and the biggest drug trades, where Mr. Saric had certain open roads. What happens at the end? The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. I see some abuses around here, which is probably when it comes to details, about amendments, I'll talk about. Now about this second law on water facilities, I have to say that in the '80s I was assigned by an expert team as the manager for the construction of a special water facility with a pulsating drive. The project was funded by the UN. These facilities were water facilities, were to be applied to water that did not have a regulated waterway and would be used for tourist and military purposes. Unfortunately, as is happening and happening in our country, the project continued to live beyond the borders of the then SRJ and Serbia and did not see the light of day in this country, but beyond the borders. If we look at water flows in Serbia, my colleague Nikola Savic has tried to explain to you or to refer to certain problems with these water facilities and ports, where these ports used to be used in large industrial complexes. I have to say that the chemical industry Zorka Shabac had used these waterways until the collapse, where the industry worked and worked, where the barges were used, where the raw materials were delivered, were used to transport the finished product even for the Latin American states. You must know it's one of the cheapest transports, both the most flexible and the fastest, without certain overloads. What's going on? This criminal privatisation and the end of business, or industry, has actually destroyed all these ports, as well as water facilities and waterways. I'm asking if now and how could that one barge of Sava go by, because she'd probably get sore, is that waterway, the water channel's buried, hasn't been clean for years. In a conversation at the Transport Committee, it was said – well, this is the headquarters in Zagreb, what does it matter if it is based in Zagreb for the treatment of channels and waterways in Serbia and through Serbia? What is also very important is that when you look at these water flows through Serbia, you will see how much and what opportunities we can have in both tourism and economic terms, and not to say that these currents have been used before, using the key ones, which is the scale. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I must also point out that these two laws you're talking about, especially at this session by emergency procedure, should have been discussed before and said, not to experience fate, where you can see for yourself how Luke Belgrade has been privatised and its criminal confiscation. Whether this privatisation is in order or not now, whether it is criminally returned or not, it needs these laws to be proven and shown. But I'm telling you one more time, and I'm going to end it, these two laws are so in cohesion, one has no connection with the other, but probably, what I said at the beginning, you take and join to discuss, and you see that each law has over 200 members to discuss and which are essential members and amendments that will contribute to the improvement of these two laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44253	National MP Milan Avramovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44254	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the other MPs in the hall, Mr Minister, I hope that at 20.00 hours, as long as there are five to 20, you will have the concentration to listen to all the other speakers, given that this topic is not often in the Republic Parliament, and it is important and the importance of its adoption we have in mind. Therefore, I would ask you to finally give us at least some essential answers, in order for this debate to look like a debate or for this discussion to contribute to the improvement of the law itself. The law on sailing and the ports on internal waters, which I'm going to focus on, is essentially supposed to exist. It regulates the flow of all vessels throughout our country, regulates a system that is recognizable in the world, how it should behave on the territory of a country, especially in rivers and waters, since Serbia has the capacity to pass through it a huge transit of the river road and to record, use, use, and financial abuse, there must be one law. But this one, like all other laws, has more goals that are essentially not what I've stated. The first task is the basic administrative norm that says we must comply with the Constitution of Serbia because Serbia is not within the limits it has been in, and so the laws come down to its existing territory. As well as the most significant reason you have listed here on page 84, which is to quote - the introduction of EU communal law into domestic legislation, with an explanation, of the introduction of eight directives, regulations and statements. If that is the basic and most important reason why this law is passed, and even by emergency procedure, then let's put an end to the law immediately and say, we don't need it. Here's why I say it. First, our opinion, as well as yours, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, that we still have nothing to do with the EU so far, and that is why we cannot follow the standards of EU members, not directives, guidelines, regulations or statements. I will remind you that there is no rule for EU members that has a discount on the state of Serbia because the state of Serbia is not a member, so there is no reason for the state of Serbia to give discounts to EU member states, let alone compensate for other non-member countries, and are also our neighbours and are also in Europe. I will also remind you of that stupid example of the Transport and Security Act, which says that one EU regulation concludes that it is desirable to use the position during driving and day-by-day to make traffic accidents as little as possible, and then to filter out the obligation that short-down lights should be included in our law, because it is some EU directive. You and I both know that by day you can see perfectly and that the lights are not needed, but here, that directive is respected. I hope that won't be the case with this law. The second reason is economic. With this, we must all agree that criminal policy has taken over in this law 14 members or eight sides, which in its range has a definition of fines from 100,000 to three million dinars. I will remind you that because of this famous EU, which we will never enter or when we enter, it will fall apart, the SAA costs the state of Serbia about about 300 million a year. That is why I remind you of Article 280 of this bill, which says that procedures which are not rightful, ended until the date of entry into force of this law, will be subject to the provisions of this law. How is that possible, Mr. Mr. Grouchy? If sanctions ranging from 100,000 to three million dinars hit that man who has no ability to break that law and is punished under this law, the question arises – are standard norms and rights used in this law? I'm telling you no, because where there's been a violation under that law, there's supposed to be a procedure, not where there's been a violation under the old law, and there's going to be a new one. Especially according to the new, which, em stricter, is that the rules of this law did not exist in the previous. I'd like to start by analysing this bill from Article 2. Maybe it's humor, but it's the sad truth. It says – the provisions of this law apply to warships when prescribed by this law. I must remind you that the Sofa Agreement, unfortunately, has defined what we can use from foreign war vehicles and how we treat them. As far as domestic war vehicles are concerned, they're gone. There is no need to worry about it, then you can feel free to delete Article 2(2). What is also important in this bill is the development and strategies that apply and bring about 10 years. It says here - the long-term development of water traffic is regulated by a water transport strategy of the Republic of Serbia relating to a period of 10 years. The strategy is brought by the government. In this bill, it is not specified in what period does the Government adopt a strategy, will it change and respect, whether there are financial opportunities for this? It is already said in the next article – according to the strategy, short-, medium- and long-term plans, construction of waterway development, ports, ports, and planned amounts of costs and proposals for funding. So, you guys know at first you don't have the money for it. You're looking for suggestions on how you're going to finance yourself, and here's the answer in the next article. Article 17 defines the concept of directorship. We must say that the Old Directorate of Plovdiv has been renamed to the Waterway Directorate, that it can commercialise its services, charge other entities or legal persons and that it can be financed in such a way, which is absolutely wrong, because this directive is on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It must work only in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, not in private, as our citizens like to say – the carpenters, or to fill their budget that is extra-ordinary for it. That's not controversial, what's controversial is that the directorate has assumed their staff who are educated and educated for this kind of work. What is controversial for us is the agency, which is opened in this bill, which is drawn up in the way it is drawn up and which makes decisions in agreement with the Management Board. The members of the board of directors are appointed by the Government, they are political parties, they are political figures. We have no proof that they are competent, and here there are members of the bill that say that the Agency's Department on a proposal can determine the amount of compensation for this or for that, or the Ministry on a proposal from the Agency can set a fee for this or that. So, the Agency will run this law. Unstructed people, people who are here by political division, people who need to take as much money as possible from the Agency itself, because her work is also about financing from taxis for which she brings the pricer, in agreement with the ministry. What's very important to me is Article 214. Since I do not have much time and to respect other colleagues, it is said, for citizens – port land and port infrastructure are in public property. This is a sentence that makes me very happy. I will remind you, it says this - extremely, the infrastructure in ports, or ports, can be owned by operators who have acquired this right in the privatisation process. Then it says – the provisions of this attitude do not apply to port operators that are contracted on privatisation that acquire property on parts of the port infrastructure completed after 25 May 2003. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, if you were involved in writing this law, what is 23 May 2003? Why has this date been selected? I'll tell you what we know. What we know is that in 2003, the Law on Planning and Construction allowed the legalization of objects built by that date. After that, a new Law on Planning and Construction was adopted, which allowed legalisation compensation, with the addition of market value, etc., so as not to waste time now. What is it that broke this date? Why isn't it February 2008? Why isn't some other date not explained by this law. What I will remind you is that if you mention that ports are state property or public property, I will remind you that Luka Rijeka, the state-owned company of Croatia, bought Luka in Sremska Mitrovica on the Sava and did its job for the century. So, overseas ships that can only access the port of Rijeka by railing their containers, drag goods to Sremska Mitrovica and thus use the entire network of waterways, both Serbia and Europe, and the Danube, until the Black Sea exits. What's important to me is reminding you that this is state property, that it's privatized in 2003 and that we don't have any of it now. I will also remind you of an agreement between us and Hungary in which combined transport is favoured, especially in relation to the waterway, and I will remind you that Croatia made the agreement with Hungary using our port in Sremska Mitrovica. Another very important thing, if we're already using ships, shipbuilding, I'll remind you of JRB's company. In August 2010, a deputy director-general, financial director, was arrested for embezzlement or compensation of 70,000 euros. That's what's known by the judicial way, for what you don't know the investigation will just determine. They've remounted ships for three times the price of what they need. The owner of Nenad Djordjevic, I think, sells the JRB building in Budva and property on the island of St. Nicholas in Montenegro, known as "Hawaii", for what. It's state property. Let me not tell you about Lucy Belgrade, for which we asked for the establishment of the Survey Committee in the Serbian Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, unfortunately, never came to the agenda, on which we wanted to present the sad truth of the robbery of state property. Mr. Moron, I'm going to remind you just a few details because I'm looking forward to this first sentence, but I don't know if it's going to apply to these parts that I'm telling you. So the land that was given to Lucy Belgrade for use is state-owned, there is no dilemma about it. The Republic has put 60 years to use the city. The city had no funds to invest, so it gave land to the social firm, the port of Belgrade, today's Luka Belgrade firm. Luka Belgrade is privatised and bought by individuals, now not to mention Milan Beko, Miroslav Miskovic. I think it was 2005. This privatisation is challenging until today, Verica Barac, president of the Anti-Corruption Council, who has filed criminal charges against all indictees in the privatisation. Whether Miskovic or Beko will remain the owners of Luke or not, the land belongs to the Republic. Since 70% of that land is not being used by Luka, the state could immediately take it away without legal difficulties. The state could decide whether Luka must be dislocated from the city centre or moved upriver to the Danube and use it to take away all the land from Luci, at this point in time, Miskovic and Bek and give them land at another location. Why doesn't the state do it if it's in this law now? One dilemma remains – is the change in the purpose of the property carried out by the Belgrade city administration legal and is the fair in Cannes a representative town on water in which Luka Belgrade is a complete residential settlement, not commercially, for what is the purpose? So, Mr. Mrkonjic, if I were to remind you that both the former Slovenian police minister and former Slovenian ambassador to Belgrade and the Slovenian "Proprija" for the bagatella bought "Doga" and became the owner of 11 ha of exclusive land on Villa's waters, where the right to use also has Luka, so the company whose director is former Ambassador, Borut Šuklje, bought a paint factory and bows "Long" from Belgrade for 17.62m euros, although it is worth more than 100m euros. The real reason for the purchase is an attempt by the former Slovenian police minister to obtain the right to use exclusive land of 11 ha on Villa's waters. It is after Luke Belgrade's largest salary in the location, estimated to be around 105m euros because the Ar costs 120,000 euros. So if the state were to stand in the protection of its ports, if it were to control, as it says in the bill, work and directorship and agencies, and if that money were to be used to develop road infrastructure and water, we could talk more seriously about this law. Until then, the conventions, instructions or recommendations of the EU cannot oblige us to rent our own water, our territory for some, and for some we give it away for free. One member says - this member does not refer to EU members, more specifically the EU. What about the other countries? Don't rush into the EU, you won't get there soon, and don't hurt the state of Serbia in particular, and not even this law, because you won't fill a lot of this EU budget as you think.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44255	People's MP Radisa Ilic has a word. Your MP group has 23 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44256	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposal for a law on navigation and ports on internal waters and the draft air traffic law wants the government to, as it is said, create assumptions for harmonisation of national legislation with EU regulations. The only confusion is the fact that the government has submitted more than 40 amendments to its own bill, so the question arises – who wrote this law in the first place? We in the SRS see this differently because this law and its adoption on paper are being met, I would say, only the formal conditions of the EU, and when it will be implemented in action, it is a particular issue. However, in order to bring all of this into order and at the wishes of Euroburocrats, it will take billions of euros to manage infrastructure, airports, ports, and then to modernise air and river traffic means, and then to train staff, etc. In 2003, some, however, rushed to the EU by buying a few thousand-euro ficus for a furniture salon such as Louis XVI, plastic spoons for thousands of dinars, etc. We hear yesterday, after seven years, a final indictment against the former minister of traffic and a group of airmen, with the difference that a million euros has been reduced to a million dinars. Just because we pass this law does not mean that something drastic is going to change in this area, because to do something, funds are needed and the state of Serbia does not have it and that it is likely to have to be found in new loans to the World Bank, the IMF or the European Investment Bank and some other banks. Members of the SRS today provide you with a lot of details from these two draft laws, but also many examples of serious violations of laws that fall within the sphere of air and river traffic, which result in the uptake of state property and the acquisition of material benefits. You, Mr. Minister, have probably heard of the problem of the alleged construction of the Smedereva refinery and everything that's been going on around it. What ties the problem to the proposal for laws on sailing and ports on internal waters is a location for the construction of a refinery based on the "Luke Smederevo" and takes over the right bank of the Danube River below the port. So someone will consciously ignore both this law and the interests of Luke Smederevo, since it's obvious that from the port area in this case there will be nothing. Do you know, Mr. Minister, what kind of company is this, that's leased on 99-year-old land of 120 acres, I'm talking about Luke Smederevo, next to the Danube itself, right next to the harbor? In fact, it's a consortium of an American firm registered in the Netherlands. Why isn't he in America? It's a question of thought. In public, stories have surfaced that the director of the mentioned company, Bulgaria, is a certain Venceslav Dijanov, whose name is connected to the construction of a gas station in Serbia, as well as a gas station, also in Serbia, but with many failures, poor quality, equipment and materials. However, all this would remain at the level of speculation if it hadn't leaked information in the public on a secretly signed contract, with annexes, in August 2009, which mentions this Bulgarian as the company's representative. However, citizens should know the fact that this company in the Netherlands, which allegedly wants to build a refinery in Smederevo, next to Luke Smederevo, is an absolute unknown, except that there is a headquarters and address of the company, you will find nothing more about the company. It's just amazing that the company, a consortium that invests huge money, in this case is talking about some 250 million dollars, doesn't have its own website to present its business activities. I'm saying this for a reason to see how irresponsible the land that is strategic and which can be classified in the port area is, and is referred to by a member of this law of 214. I will quote Article 214(6), where it is said: "The government determines the port area for each port, or port in accordance with spatial planning and water management plans". This means that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should establish an area for every port, including the one in Smederevo, as well as for the port, but how will it do so if next to "Luke Smederevo" and the right bank of the Danube River the world's cheapest refinery is raised? Each port must have its own area, frozen for the possible expansion of the infrastructure, then for safety or for environmental security. Mr. Minister, you know yourself that when it comes to roads, highways, corridors, etc., there are areas by which no buildings, buildings or anything can be built. We also have an example in mining, where there is a wide exploitation of fields that are legally defined. But what is even weirder in the whole story is the founding capital of this consortium that wants to build a refinery in Smederevo, which is only 2,000 euros, has only two employees in the seat: the director and deputy, the basic assets are estimated at around 6,000 euros. The company is called "Comico oversize" and they are not listed in the database that exists with two global providers and it's "Dun & Bradstreet" and "Better Business Bureau". Mr. Radomir Radivojević, who was presented in public as deputy director, answers that comment that the company "Comico" is part of the giant "Bazik Equipment". But when you get on this financial giant's website, there's no comedian there, not as part of the company, not as a client. What follows is particularly interesting and should concern us and all those who intend to make the city's 120 hectares of land next to the Danube and the harbor trust someone whose project was supported by the American investment firm "Mary Lynch", known for its stock exchange speculative business, which has bankrupted, which has failed and bought by the American Bank. This should be borne in mind by those who give up land, that after the collapse of this business, they will deal in court with the American Bank. Knowing who in Serbia teaches lessons, how both the government and the court can be judged, you can conclude the final outcome. The logical question is raised – why don't they make this refinery, say, in Bulgaria on the Danube? They'll be even closer and cheaper transporting raw materials through the river. So why don't they threaten the proximity of some port in the Danube, why are they doing it in Serbia? There's the answer. In Bulgaria, such technologies cannot pass, because Bulgaria, whatever it is, is an EU member and such businesses are unacceptable for them. Furthermore, can you imagine an absurd situation that the director of this company, Bulgaria, does not want to help its country with such a "grandious" investment, has been haunted for months with local bureaucracy in Serbia. Also, remember that one such attempt pushes a direct finger around Russia, the interests Russia has over NIS in Serbia and the Balkans. If something is done, and that's impossible, it can only be a refinery with outdated dangerous technology, which will represent an ecological bomb for the whole area. Also, don't be surprised if all of this isn't just a well-prepared dislocation of some of the refineries from the neighbouring country or some, where the main components are already, I'd say clean and reparate, preparing for Smederevo. There's also some kind of military mobile refinery. We could now clarify the claim made by the company's representatives who want to take land near the port of Smederev, that the value of this investment will be 250 million dollars and that the said future refinery will produce 100,000 barrels of oil derivatives a day. So pay attention to what I'm about to prove to you now in the case of a moving market price in this area, and that's the inability to make a refinery with that capacity for just 250 million dollars. The first example is the Brazilian state oil company Petrovos, which bought 87.5% stake in the Japanese refinery "Tonnen Genal Seki", which is otherwise a subsidiary of the US company Exon Mobile. Petrovod is planning to invest $975m in modernising the 100 thousand barrels refinery daily, so, like this Smederovska on the Japanese island of Okinawa. So they're just modernizing, not building a new one. If they'd known about this company, both Brazilians and Japanese could have saved a lot of money. For example, even worse than the first one, the oil company "Saudi Aramko" and French "Totel" would invest $10 billion in a refinery that has a capacity of 400,000 barrels a day. The third example, even worse than these two, is an example from Republika Srpska. Russia's Verubezneft, the owner of the oil refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, plans to invest a billion euros to develop and modernise existing refineries. This sum turned into dollars is a billion and 300 million dollars. I'd say now the Russians are probably crazy to invest so much money in modernizing the refinery. They could simply hire these brown sheiks, save them the misery and save them a whole billion dollars. I think it's clear to all of us that behind all of this is the intention of taking the land. The fact that there are already certain lease fees is nothing compared to the real value of land and the strategic position in the Danube. We've had a lot of cases like this, there have been speeches here about Luke Belgrade, in this ten-year robbery privatisation of everything valuable in this country, from factories, natural resources, to land. If we were to draw the line below the number that would represent the total real value of the sold social and state property and the number that would represent the total earnings achieved from the sale of these companies, we'd get the right picture of what brought us that famous October 5th, whose ten-year-old ironically today, I'm not saying ends, but ends. I think you too, Mr. Minister, will agree to this finding.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44257	National MP Milan Škrbić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44258	Although, Mr. Minister, I have counted that there will be more time, because this topic that we are talking about today, I think that in all the segments of this second law that we are talking about, about ports and inland navigation, we are going to be dealing with the municipalities from which I come from, which is Apatin, which is really in the perspective, and about this law, has a great basis for good co-operation with the Ministry, good co-operation with the state, and that would also be good for the municipality, and also for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, if that co-operation, as it was conceived in this law, was implemented. Indeed, to be honest, when I talk about this law and the like, we only encounter problems and it's huge. About a year ago, Serbia signed an agreement with Croatia, you know, on sailing and waterways on internal waters and their technical maintenance that defined the maintenance of the Danube in the border area. The agreement defined technical maintenance of about 130km of Danube waterway in the border area, as well as issues of safety of navigation. I think it's important to say that about 130 kilometers of Danube waterway is in the border area. Maintenance of the Danube so far has been undefined, so they've all been working a little while, and in fact, nothing has been done and why this waterway is threatened. The agreement does not prejudge the borders between Serbia and Croatia in the Danube area that has not been defined. The issue of boundaries should be resolved as soon as possible because only then would the application of this law make sense. So far, it's unclear where the border is and there's going to be problems about co-operation, about maintenance. There's a particularly critical part of your ministry and ministry that's been responsible for this story before, but nothing has been done about it, and it should be done better as soon as possible, because there could be catastrophic consequences. Not to talk about the way the coastal fort was done now, because Croatia was doing its smurf, and Serbia was not. These sports shift the water flow of the Danube and the queen throws herself on the coast of Serbia and dives, that's what you ministers visited and saw, it's a huge, really huge problem. There's one more thing I'd like to say within this little time I have, which is a bad or extremely bad situation in this branch of the economy. Thank you very much for throwing me away. Here, my colleague Markovic tells me to spend all my time. Thank you very much, and I really think that in my discussion, I'm going to point out a lot of things also useful to the ministry itself. So, an extremely bad state in this branch of economy has also contributed to some governments' hasty decisions, so I'd say even these governments, I think. The amendment of the regulation on conditions for the navigation of foreign vessels to domestic waterways is contrary to the plans and draft of this port law. The granting of port status opened for international traffic to the port in Beocino is causing enormous damage to domestic economy, and we need to find out, which is why Luka Novi Sad will first of all lose significant revenue from freight operations because foreign ships will be able to leave directly and take over from Beocino. The controversial amendment to the said regulation was made contrary to several planned documents by the Republic of Serbia, and it devises a draft law on the safety of navigation and ports on internal waters. This disputed regulation, which I speak of in the former port, repeats for my own needs, which is within the composition of the Lafarz cement factory in Beocino, has been granted the status of the airport open to international traffic, which violates the current spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia and violates the proposal for a spatial plan of Serbia that does not foresee the existence of an open port for international traffic in Beocino. I note that Lafarg is not a Serbian firm, we all know who holds a cement store in Beocino. Corridor 7, the Trans-European route along the Danube River is just as great a chance for Serbia's development as Corridor 10. However, our country has failed to take full advantage of this advantage, that river traffic should become a non-replaceable and unambiguous component of Serbia's transport system, and the Danube spine of the development of the economy. In developed countries, they have long started using the advantage of free water traffic. The channel system has given new quality to these traffickers. However, not all possibilities have been used. Despite these advantages, water transport businesses face many problems. Now, in this presentation, I'm going to mention some of them. Weak infrastructure is present in ports and at border crossings, safety of anchor facilities, poor capacity to supply vessels, slow harmonisation of legislation in this area with European standards and practical needs, frequent oscillation of railways in the Danube, possibility of halting navigation due to wind, ice, water levels, not maintaining channels, unmarked waterways, etc. Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic himself recently said that from the 2011 IPA EU funds for projects in Vienna, between 25m and 30m euros, he said that out of 24 municipalities in Danube Serbia, only nine have submitted projects for the Danube strategy that will be completed by the end of this year and adopted in the first half of 2011. During the Presidency of Hungary, the EU can say that Apatin has submitted among the first things that the commission has asked for, and we hope that we will get both state and these funds, so that Apatin would indeed become something that everyone should look up to. Serbia's river potentials are completely untapped, and the fact that water transport accounts for only 4.7%, if the statistics are correct, of the overall traffic record that we are significantly lagging behind for EU countries where water transport is represented by around 15%. The best example is the Netherlands where this transport is represented by more than 40% of the total traffic. I must also point out that so far, investment in water transport has not been a priority for the Serbian authorities. In recent years, the EU has been increasingly seeking to include our country more actively in the development project of pan-European water corridor 7 of the Danube River, which flows through Serbia over 588km. Thus, the European Agency for Reconstruction financed the development of master plans for Serbia's waterway development by 2025, which predicts that over the next twenty years, river traffic has increased as much as four times, i.e. on Serbia's waterways, 30% of total traffic should be realised. Mr. Minister, although Serbia in a sailing sense has the best part of the Danube, which is deep and wide enough, the state is not at all focused on river traffic, nor is it paying attention to the potentials this river has. The Danube matches the highway with ten lanes. However, ships, ports, and goods are missing. Other types of traffic have no such perspective at close range and cannot develop without enormous investment, unlike transport to the Danube. While the authorities often talk about the necessary major investments, I personally argue, as well as the entire SRS parliamentary group, that it is more about lack of political will and effort than about enormous figures. Here's why. I would point out this moment that we consider it very important that Serbia must already now, and it could, too, include participation in almost all development projects related to the Danube and that as if it were an EU member, but no one is paying attention, so there was no possible EU assistance. If the target is drawn, and as far as I can see, the Government has drawn it, the goal is to increase the transport of goods by water to 12 million tonnes from the current six million tonnes in 2015. What I'm saying, Mr. Master Pavle Grujic knows very well, because by listing literature and preparing for this session, I found his name in many seminars, educations, public debates and I believe he knows it well and understands everything I say. So, Serbia still needs to work seriously to connect water, road and rail traffic, and part of that plan is to build four transport terminals along the Danube in locations that will yet be precise. According to him, a total of 29 projects are foreseen in the Danube, a total of 260m euros, while all projects on the Danube-Sava-Tisa rivers require about 350m euros. Over the next 10 years, Serbia will not be able to provide all its resources and will continue to seek assistance from EU funds. The EU's Master Plan for Serbia has already defined priorities in the projects, and I am glad that this is one of these priorities and in general collection. As works to be completed in a short time, such as a remont, ship's translation to Gerdap one and two, removal of all bottlenecks and increased.. (President: Mr. Squirt, time. After the introduction of river information knowledge and technology... really, there's little time, what's more important to point out, please one more minute and I'm ending up, is, I don't know where to start, there's a lot to start with, but back to consumer protection law for a while. I would not like to see many countries from Europe taking part in this law, and according to their duties are called older, long-term experts, and younger long-term experts, and older short-term experts, and younger short-term experts, it's all here. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44259	There'll be an opportunity to talk about it. Thank you, Mr. Squirt. Is there anyone else who hasn't used the right of Article 96? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Minister, would you like to speak to me? Just sign in. Mr. Minister Milutin Mrkonjic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44260	I'm sorry everyone doesn't have a lot of MPs, but I have to tell you that I've learned a lot and that's when I say it, then you know it's true. Twenty debaters who have spoken, each in their own way, and those who have criticised and you have been particularly interested in me, as well as those who have supported me, will make a significant contribution to the number of these amendments that we have brought, which we have now, most of us adopt. Reason number one, answer all your questions. As a man and as an expert, what I thought was a concrete opportunity, for our country the best. No unions, no entrances anywhere I've been run, no nothing. That's the first plan. Please, another plan is what I'm talking about right now. Of course, the amendments came from the EU and we waited six months, and then in September there was a criticism on my behalf. Of course, as a man who doesn't want to prevent entering Europe, he gave a warrant to do so by emergency procedure. There was no time to go back to the government and lose another week or two days. On October 9th, we must adopt this law. Okay, well, she's partly right, not in everything, which is why those 40 amendments, of which six or seven, we read them in the office upstairs today, are essential. These technical and legal regulations remain. That doesn't matter now. Once again, I have to apologize to Mrs. Banovic, and I have to go from her, and she's a lady, and there's one left, and I'm sure I promised, for sure, and I don't think that's right. When I received information today that the police had gone in there, I reacted immediately. Tonight I'm gonna sit down with Hansel Dacic and see if he's here, of course, and he's a man on the road, that's not right, that we understand each other. I don't know where the conflicts broke out, these people accepted, so something else happened. It's a big deal in procedure and expropriation, and most of you know it. It's a legal procedure. Income managements define as much as anything and where to pay. I'll say one thing, it's not good, TV's watching it, in Levoso, there's been a lot of criticism and on that project, I paid for the expropriation myself to speed up the process, and now maybe tomorrow someone's gonna take me out, as they're talking about the former minister. I want to tell you that administration is slow in these expropriation processes, but that's the only example. It's no good, he's gone in Serbia, and that's good. I promise, tomorrow morning we'll take it immediately into consideration, I'll go back to Dimitrovgrad, but please, at that point, local self-government is very important. She determines these procedures you're talking about, they called the police today. I'm sorry, there won't be any more of that. As for the pressure and the roads, I'll try again, you know I've had a lot of conflicts with people who work there, but that's how it is. I'll try to figure it out, and there's no problem like that. As far as the law is concerned, the first thing is our internal relations and the definition of finally air traffic, water, railway, of course, I was called by my colleague Savic or Avramovic, railway traffic, and we have now prepared that third law, which is unfortunately not in that package for 9, but it will be very soon under consideration, as well as the law on dangerous burdens. Of course, it's a priority, but until today when we talk about air traffic, it wasn't an orderly relationship, and yet it's not here right now, Jorgenka, she asked, I'm going to give both regulations, the moment I'm put in place as a minister, just by estimating the conflict of interest, I've asked to see what documents I'm supposed to do in the Directorate and the Agency, of course, with no money, without money. They gave me those three decisions from the Serbia-Montenegro community. We're working on those decisions today. To settle that question, we are making the law today, so that there will be no more anarchy, at least in that part. As for the money they're dealing with around the Directorate and the Agency, it's completely defined. It can't be spent, at least globally, what we know, beyond what we have to do. So I'm saying there's no theft. That's my job, and I can tell you that. Momo, the answer to that question is to you. As for Luke Apatine, my friend is sitting there, so she's the best example of how well you can do and how local self-government, and even though there's no support somewhere in the government, part of the job can be done. It's the best example of what the Danube River means. This government has accepted Corridor 7 as its other development potential. Believe me, Apatin will be one of the most developed municipalities in Serbia. One more thing, esteeming the Danube and the Waterway Act. So far we've got 12 ports. Of those 12, 10 is privatized. You all know when it's privatized. Of course I'm the most bitter opponent of this wild privatisation, just like you. Now we need to get that back, so we can see what the state needs to use, as well as the sky. The first information to me was: the sky isn't ours. Of course the sky is our resource, and I've explained it to the people who run the Agency. So it's the same with the ports. We're going to separate the portion, they're, 10 ports are privatized, sold, we're going to see how and in what way, we're going to damage these people, but what's basic, in law it says, the part that applies to the state is going to be a state resource. That's what's most important to me. So, we made the laws so there wouldn't be any more deviations and thefts, and I hope these two laws did it. As for Velina's proposal, I think that's what Mrs. Donka said, I think one of the radicals said that, too, today, to withdraw the law, to approve those 40 remarks, we need a month. Don't let us go to that solution. For the next three or four days, we'll be watching these amendments. On Monday, as the president tells me, we'll be back here, you'll see how many amendments we're going to install, exactly the ones you were talking about today. Let's adopt these two laws, take them off the agenda and try to seduce the order in those areas. Once again, I thank everyone who participated in the debate. Donkey, I promise tomorrow, just give me the phone that Jorgenka's asking for, and I'll give you the documents on the basis of which the Agency for Traffic Safety and the Air Traffic Directorate are operating. One more thing, the Directorate doesn't have a big budget, the Agency has a big budget and are under control because we are in the Directorate and Mrs Diana Dragutinović, and Comrade Ivica Dacic, and Mr Sutanovac and I. So, believe me, there are no major deviations here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-05-0.u44261	Let me conclude the search and express my gratitude first of all to you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the really very active and reasoned debate you had, the minister and his associates for following and hoping to adopt Parliament's suggestions. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft air traffic law and the proposal for a law on navigation and ports on internal waters. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thanks again. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the MPs. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Milos Aligrudic. We move on to a joint single search of the 6-8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Republic's Committee for the Protection of Law in Public Procurement Procedures, the list of candidates for the President of the Committee for the Protection of Competition and the list of members of the MEP OF THE CONTRIBUTION MEMBER STATES I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. In line with this parliamentary group, G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Slavic group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit statements for a word, with a order of MPs, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Arsen Djuric, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Vlajko Senic of the G17 Plus Parliament Group, MP Zoran Krasic of the SRS. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on a proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, a list of candidates for the President of the Competition Commission and a list of candidates for members of the Competition Protection Council. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Financial Committee’s rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word?
