ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36449	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36450	First of all, Madam President, I ask the question – when will I get answers to the previously asked questions? I'm just surprised to you that you don't insist that I get your answers. One of these issues is related to the company Morgan Stanley, which has privatised the tobacco industry and received tenm euros for it, and according to some of my findings, it has not been registered at all. It's a pure crime and someone has to answer for it. I have asked this question to the republican public prosecutor, and to this day there is no answer. However, I do not wonder why there is no answer, because this society is completely criminalised and in this criminalisation, unfortunately, a complete political summit is taking part. You had a chance to watch something very interesting on one television last night, and I'm going to ask some questions, first of all, the Ministry of the Interior, the Republic Public Prosecutor and the Privatisation Agency, to see what's going on with some of our companies. This could be called "now you see it, now you don't see it"; it's a match game, with that ball, but it's not about balls, it's about the whole company. One of these interesting companies is the company Novosti. The company "News" is privatized under the 1997 Act on its own transformation. The workers got 60% of the capital. By the time the Agency was set up in 2001, the privatisation decision was "discarded", as there is absolutely no single document. Stockholders have been deleted from the database at the Ministry of Economic and Property Transformation. Mia Petrovic, a lawyer, claims she has never signed a cancellation decision and has no basis for that. After the establishment of the Privatisation Agency, all companies privatised under one of the previous laws in 1993, in 1997, were obliged to deliver data to the Privatisation Agency on their shareholders. It was compared to the Ministry's database and it was made so-called temporary register. During the privatisation of companies under the 2001 law, the base was consulted and workers were reduced actions, depending on whether they had already exercised rights under the ZOST. In January 2004, the base was handed over to the Central Charter Register of Values, the Agency continued to control the entry of actions and to reduce them, because the only one had information about all shareholders and had a finished program for who was doing it. Until then, the News Agency has not called at all. The first was, so it was gone, but said – by 2006 "News" did not appear to be privatised under the 2001 law. However, it is found that the "News" are listed in the Central Register, but it is not known when, in any way, or who approved it. Now a simple question is raised, since we heard whose money "News" were purchased – what about the period 1997 to 2006 or 2007? How is it possible for such a large company to be privatized, that workers get 60% of the company's stock, that it disappears completely, and that after almost ten years it appears again? That's just impossible. This time I call on all the workers "News" who have received these actions to join together, to initiate the procedure, to take a lawyer, because it is obvious that they have been stolen, it is obvious that a great crime has been committed, it is obvious that someone from the political summit of this country participates in this crime, it is obvious that privatisation has been made by the money that has also been earned in a criminal way... (President: Time. I think that finally the ball should start to unwind and that those who are responsible finally account for this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36451	Mr. Todorovic, when 15 days pass and the MP does not get an answer to the asked question of the service, are uraging. We will, of course, do it this time, given that the first part of your exposure was related to the objection regarding non-response. That's unfortunately true. I am also taking this opportunity to remind all those referred to by MPs that they should answer the asked question within two weeks. Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36452	The Honorable President of the Assembly, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission, especially those who regularly pay TV subscription, since I am one of those and have the freedom to represent citizens who pay for a TV subscription, I have a number of questions for the present Mrs. Finance. If you haven't been notified, a few days ago I asked a series of questions. Today you have a wonderful opportunity to answer both to me and to all citizens of Serbia. Dr. Aleksandar Tijanic, Director of Public Service, in response to my parliamentary questions and warnings at the end of November that text messages are being played on the Public Service, to God, gambling, one big fraud, said that one part of the funds is being paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Please respond to the citizens of Serbia how much of this game from the Public Service has been paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Since some people have been arrested, since some are under investigation, since 160 people have been brought into various legal or informative talks, as you call it, Mrs Dragutinovic, if that money is paid, do you think you can return that money to the cheated citizens of Serbia? A moral message – some of these couples are reportedly buying benches for some remote rural schools – I do not want to talk. I repeat to the citizens of Serbia and to all of you, fellow MPs, who are not yet answering, and you all think, though, in the halls, like me, to report here, so that I don't turn out to buy some cheap political points here, I can only say that the school program has been and that this school program exists, as unfortunately does not exist at the Public Service, perhaps the Director of Public Service would learn something, would not behave like this. I continue with questions, as I promised the citizens of Serbia. How much did this year's show "Three and One for Oslo" cost to elect our representative for the Eurovision Competition, and especially how much was Eurovision in 2008, which was organised in our capital, Belgrade? So, I call on the Director of the Public Service to answer these questions - what were the fees, who were the people paid the fees, and are all the legal regulations respected? For this announcement, on Tuesday 16 March, I ask – is it true that RTS editor Sandra Shusha, the editor of the entertainment program, is that correct? Is it true that her own sister Anna Shusha is the editor of the music program? I repeat the question, since I have the support of at least 90% of Serbian Radio-Television employees, what are the salaries in Serbia's Radio-Television, at the Public Service, from porters to directors? I represent citizens who pay TV subscription. Most of the time, I believe that the public service is also funded from the money collected from the TV subscription, and if the MPs here, all public officials and directors of public enterprises have to and should report to the citizens for every penny they have spent, I see no reason why the Public Service would not also file accounts for the citizens of Serbia, to see how that money is spent. New Serbia, I hope, with the co-operation of all fellow MPs, will try to help citizens of Serbia who have been deceived by texting. They were invited from the Public Service to participate in the "reward game". We will try to organise teams of people's lawyers, bring together these lawsuits, and try together to exercise the right to return to the citizens of Serbia. Given how Serbian citizens live, that is, most of them, and that there are announcements that there will be an increase in TV subscription (or TV tax, as someone calls it), so much more important is what I ask. Now I want to say something for myself. I fear no one but the Lord God and his son, and I have always, as far as I know, been able and able to rule according to the principles of Christ's faith. Tired and insulted by communist hysterics won't scare me at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36453	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36454	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am glad that Ms. Minister Dragutinović is here, and I welcome her. The last few years have been very instructive; the whole world has realized that integration and globalisation bring a lot of good, but that anything negative that happens in a big or small country can seriously endanger the financial system. Yesterday, a good part of the world waited carefully for the results of a meeting in Brussels, where it decided how to help Greece in the serious financial crisis. The crisis has already passed on to Portugal, Spain, and the question is where it will stop. So the whole of Serbia closely followed last week's meeting in Kopalnik and concluded that instead of answering, it brought only a new question – does Serbia have economic policy at all and, if so, what policy is that? The latest economic crisis hit Serbia in late summer or early autumn 2008. First they hit the banks. Do you remember the reaction of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia then? The Democratic Party of Serbia, a parliamentary club, has already proposed the Deposit Insurance Act in early October to stop the bank's savings outflow. Only after 15 days or 20 days did the government accept such a solution and stop the citizens' reaction. During that time, more than a billion euros left the banks. The second step of the crisis has affected businesses. In the last year, more than 200,000 people have lost their jobs. The serious problem is liquidity, the serious problem is the functioning of our economy. The third step or part of the crisis has long begun and he strikes the banks again. Every seventh company in Serbia is unable to serve its obligations. More and more citizens can't serve the commitments they have to banks. There will be a problem with the growth of late, because in the period ahead of us companies will continue to be late with the payment of their debts. I don't think the financial sector will be at risk, but there may be serious problems. I will not enter into the reasons for Greece to be in trouble, but the fundamental question is whether the crisis that has affected Greece could have anything to do with Serbia, as it does with some other countries, and whether Serbia and Greece are connected? The answer is – yes, of course. If nothing else, Greek banks own 17% of Serbia's banking system. Depending on the way and model of solving problems in Greece and the way the EU, perhaps the IMF, will decide to solve problems in Greece, these problems can seriously affect both Serbia's financial system and Serbia's economy and Serbia's overall functioning. I have a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Cvetkovic and Governor of the National Bank Radovan Jelasic – how is the analysis seen in Greece and how, in case the financial situation in Greece gets worse, the state of banks, the banking system in Greece, will respond to the National Bank, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36455	Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that MP Nikola Lazic has been prevented from attending the session, as well as that I am in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also called for the presence of: Vesna Kreljac-Ivanović and Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Finance Minister Višnja Kuzmanovic of the Public Debt Administration and Dragisa Martinovic of the Public Enterprise "Serbia". We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE CARIN LAW (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Nikola Savinović, Dragan Stevanovic, Milorad Buha, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Martinović, Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic, Momir Marković, Sreto Perić, Momcilo Duvnjak, Dušan Marić, Aleksandra Ilic, Dejan Mirović, Mirko Munjic, Nemanja Sarović, Milan Škrbić, Dragan Zivkov, Nenad Popović, Arsen Đurić, Marina Ragus, Milan Avramović, Bojan Mladenov, Vladan Jeremic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Boris Aleksić, Dragan Aćimović, Srboljub Živanovic, Paja Momčalov, Gordana Rajkov and Vitomir Plužarevic, as well as a Committee for economic development and economic relations. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. National MP Gordan Rajkov, written on the way, withdrew Amendment I and Amendment II to Article 216. On the basis of Article 148(2), Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee, as untimely, rejected the amendment groups from the 21st National MP of the Prosperity Group, to Serbia. 5, 16, 35 and 193. Pursuant to the same article, Article 3, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. I asked for the proposal of customs law and this amendment to replace the word 'this' in the text with'Customs'. I felt that my amendment and what I was looking for would define more precisely the text of the law itself, so simply for those who interpret and watch the text, it would be clear what it was about. In its argument, however, the government stated that this amendment is not accepted because the established terminology and decades of practice that is present in other state bodies is being used. Perhaps I could accept this argument from the government, that the government is consistent with these principles in every situation and in all fields. But we know how the government behaves when it comes to the principles of this kind, we know that laws are passed that change every year; we have the text of the law, and then we make changes, and then they change again. I simply believe that this amendment should have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36457	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is in principle similar to Nikola Savic's amendment. The government explained why the amendment refused to respect decades of practice, the methodology for making the rules. Of course, our amendments weren't something that would have to be stopped or destroyed and made up of it. We think these proposed solutions were just a little more precise. Because you are absolutely right, Mrs Dragutinovic, when you say this law is technical. This did not interfere with a technique that was defined by customs regulations, goals and all that this law contains and contains. I don't think you had any reason not to accept this. It would only be more precise and correct. I would take the opportunity to look back at the end of our principled debate. In your closing statement, you pointed out one mistake that I did here. I said Kosovo is in the World Trade Organisation. You were right, I did make a lapus, but Kosovo is a member of the World Bank, the IMF. There is an impression that this is a detour to talk about the essence, which is why I insisted on Kosovo's membership, a mistake in the World Trade Organisation, which is that you are installing into this law the standards that these organisations are proposing, the EU standards, or the directives that come from Europe. The Serbian Radical Party believes that this law is one of the laws that will put the government to the test, whether through financial policy, or fiscal customs policy, it will represent the position that part, at least declaratively, speaks, is that Kosovo and Metohija will be an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will never give up on this fight, idea and such attitude. We are now interested in telling us whether this law will be absolutely in the function of such a position of the Government, or whether you will still succumb to pressures, or international contracts, which this country will define, which are somehow later in this point 3), where this law will be said to be applied and applied uniquely throughout the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia, unless otherwise prescribed by this law, by another law or by an international agreement which has been confirmed by the Republic of Serbia. You see, in this law are built into standards of organisations that essentially do not allow us to apply the laws throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What we wanted to ask on this occasion as a question – what mechanisms will the Government, for example, apply this law at the border crossing, or in the customs exhibition General Jankovic in Kosovo and Metohija? We're interested in what kind of mechanisms you're going to try to apply in the area of Kosovo to Metohija. On the other hand, the European Commission said that the border with Kosovo and Metohija is in the context of customs looseness and that Serbia is expected to strengthen the customs apparatus precisely at points towards Kosovo and Metohija. In this context, we are asking whether, as a state and in this sense, you will stick to the principles and attitudes, which at least declareably promotes Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, that you will not give up fighting for Kosovo and Metohija and through institutions, or will you allow the strength, strength and affirmation of borders in relation to Kosovo and Metohija? What treatment will the goods coming to Kosovo and Metohija, which enters Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija? What will be the crossings? What treatment will a slave enters Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia? It seems to us that the EU, which you are leading us in and whose directives you are going to run, will re-evaluate what you are saying and promoting and will put you to the test and test in a serious way. We are afraid that latently in this law you have created a place for yourself to sort of go for an order, firstly, the EU, or the international community, which wants to establish a state in one part of our territory. Also, a question that is very interesting: whether the World Trade Organisation, when treating Serbia as an observer, treats Serbia with Kosovo and Metohija, or if Kosovo, etc. the state of Kosovo, to have its separate path, the integration path into the organisation, that is, the World Trade Organisation? These are some questions that we didn't get answers to in principle, so it would be nice if you told us now what the government's position is and how the government is going to fight, with mechanisms, that this law applies to the territory of the Republic of Serbia in general, that is, Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36459	Thank you. You're just going to tell me if this is more than two minutes from the parliamentary group of authorized representatives? Yeah. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36460	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 paragraph 2 of the Customs Law proposal and suggested that the words "beyond regulations from other areas relating to trade in goods" be deleted. In fact, it is a legal-technical correction requiring erasure of the part of the regulation, because I find this regulation unnecessary. Why unnecessary? Because, according to Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, it is technical law. Given that it is a technical law, it is generally related to the procedure, it is a general law, and in this case it is also a regulation in many other legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia and there is no need to repeat certain things defined by other laws, i.e. other legal regulations, which are already an integral part of the legal regulation of the Republic of Serbia. What's important to point out is that the customs system itself has been in the period since 2009, so on... Since we unilaterally accepted in 2009 the application of the Trade Agreement and all the negative reflections relating to the application of this trade agreement, I will point out here with several financial indicators the adverse consequences of unilateral application. In the 2009 budget, the plan was to raise 72 billion from customs. At the end of the year, we see that all around 46 - 47 billion are collected, which means that approximately 300 million euros are less in the budget. It's a huge asset. The government did not find a solution to settle missing revenues in the budget. (President: Time. Would you like an MP's group? Yes. (President: you have to do it again. ) The government found no solution for the lack of funds for 2009; it is the same in 2010. It is not only a direct damage, which is about 300m euros. It is an indirect damage, which is more directly fatal to Serbian national interests. What's the indirect damage? Reduction of customs rates. We didn't just cut those rates, we cut revenues, but on the other hand, we allowed unfair competition to come to our market with a variety of goods. According to SRS 2009 indicators, between one billion and two billion euros of goods were found on the market than in 2008. Such a trend will be in 2010. Why less? Because we allowed the lobbying circles of companies dealing with imports to market far more foreign products, so our producers and our domestic industry remained damaged, could not sell, materialise on the domestic market a domestic product. In traffic, we had between a billion and two billion euros in goods to be produced by our companies. That is why we have such a huge number of non-equity businesses in business in the Republic of Serbia. We know for ourselves that about 67,000 blocked companies; but not only blocked companies, tens of thousands of companies are currently inequitable. One of the reasons, perhaps one of the most important reasons, is precisely the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement. On the other hand, we do not have an adequate policy of monitoring the entry of goods, the transport of goods, and from a health, sanitary aspect and from all other aspects, so that on the domestic market we have unfair competition. We didn't protect our domestic producer. These are harmful consequences. It's an indirect damage the government doesn't think about. This measure will cause devastating consequences for domestic producers, they are already present. In 2010, 2011 we will have far greater problems. How do you fight all that? The finance ministry has one policy, or there is no policy. The National Bank of Serbia advocates the story of reducing certain costs related to public spending. On the other hand, the government does not take measures to actually reduce public spending. It's a confusion in the ruling coalition, which doesn't lead to good in our domestic flows, because we don't have an adequate policy to help exporters, we don't have incentives for our producers coming out of the foreign markets. On the other hand, I will now read to you how importers work on the domestic market, without any restrictions, without adequate government policy that will stop imports and help our exporters. In 2001, imports were 4,759,000,000 euros, in 2003 6,580,000,000, in 2005 8,439,000,000, in 2007 13,506,000,000, in 2008 15,494,000. From year to year, the trend in import growth is between 20% and 30%. Every import-related government projection was promising in those years, in terms of reducing imports, taking certain measures, stopping imports, however, all these measures were barren, giving no result and we had an increase in imports year by year. On the other hand, there was an increase in exports. However, it was a verse, without any state organisation. What did we have in the end? We had an enormously high deficit in foreign trade, with all the negative implications of increasing that deficit, i.e. withdrawing foreign exchange funds from the domestic market and throwing healthy foreign exchanges into the external market. It's what the government is keeping quiet about. The government does not have an adequate policy to help export. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36461	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet, who has a word. Would you like to sign in, Veronica?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36462	Today we have a debate on one law in particular. It's about one big law that has over 300 members and should make the impression of a serious law. The topic that this law regulates is very serious, but what is provided for in this law is mostly some kind of laurels. The point isn't the law itself. You have also seen through the amendments, we have no excessive fundamental objections to the law itself, but we have huge objections to the functioning of the customs system, to the application of the current law and to the application of the future law, which will be passed in parliament. It is about the fact that it is generally known in the state of Serbia that citizens (I don't like to say ordinary citizens, we are all people), when they talk about customs, they know what essential problems are. The main problems are that non-selective imports are at work in Serbia. We all know the year-old story of imported apples, that ours can't be sold. Exports to Serbia are also under question due to the fact that today's exports to Serbia are three times lower than imports. This is what is the fundamental problem of this law and the application of the law, and the fundamental problem of those institutions of the system that are related to this law. The Serbian Radical Party believes the state must stimulate exports, and that is to say by certain state subsidies. An even bigger problem, which is difficult for this government to solve, is that in Serbia, unfortunately, there is no production, and while there is no production, it is hard to talk about serious exports. But what could be very easy to get to certain export products is our agriculture, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia absolutely does not care about and does not give it certain incentives so that we can increase exports, or at least even it with imports, for starters, and of course, in some future times that exports are larger than imports. This should be the goal of every one, including these governments, because until this balance is achieved, Madam Minister, you are certainly aware that there is nothing since leaving the crisis, nor of increasing production, nor of a better life for Serbia's citizens. You're talking about it more and more - we're getting out of the crisis this year, next year. Of course, you still don't have a unique position, and within the government of the Republic of Serbia, we heard it these days while you were wintering on the Kopalnik, and that's a really big problem not only for the government of the Republic of Serbia, it's a problem for the citizens of Serbia. When it comes to this amendment, like all amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS, they are mostly legal-technical character and it would be really good if you had accepted them, because at least formally you would have a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36463	The government has accepted your amendment, you know that. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Mr. Dragan Stevanovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36464	At first, Madam President, I'd like to correct you. This was an amendment to Article 2, which the government accepted, not Article 3, as you said, since the Serbian Radical Party did not submit amendments to Article 3. For the sake of the public, the government has accepted this amendment. As far as my colleague Aleksandr Martinovic's amendments are concerned, it seems to me that the government could accept this amendment. He refers to the objectives of this law. My colleague Aleksandar Martinovic suggested adding point 5, which would be another objective of this law, which is to increase the competitiveness of the domestic economy through the modernisation of the customs administration and the development of the IT system. What we have received as an explanation, not to read everything, says that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that point 5 is proposed but contained in the provisions of Article 5. 2, 4, 22. If you look at what is defined through the objectives of Article 2, then you can freely say that point 3 is contained in all these members, that point 4 is contained in all these members, security and protection of people and the environment, facilitating international trade, etc. If we were to manage the logic of which the amendment was rejected, we could freely say that the provisions of this law contained what is found in points 3 and 4. The idea of the Serbian Radical Party was that through this goal we definitely show that we want everything that could be in the capacity to increase the competitiveness of the domestic economy, including the law on customs duties, procedures and everything that regulates these procedures to be in a function of development, or competitiveness, increasing the competitiveness of the domestic economy. This is something that the bodies within the Serbian Chamber of Commerce insist on. They also require calls for administrative arrangements, facilitating customs procedures for the affirmation of domestic production, i.e. increasing the competitiveness of domestic economy. Mrs Dragutinovic, what you have been saying in the past few days is almost in line with the SRS' views. What we have proposed here is our determination that Serbia can no longer insist on the existing growth model, the model that advocates that other part of your government, which is an increase in consumption; that irony is greater, that consumption is increased through new borrowings. Serbia has a problem this year because some of the funds from the banks will be withdrawn to their queens because the money was not hired, and the money was not hired because neither private nor legal persons are creditworthy. The growth model in Serbia definitely needs to be different. The government of the Republic of Serbia must stop misleading the public. Serbia cannot think through political pragmatism in its perspective, so you will make decisions that will bring political benefits over the next six or seven months or until the first next elections. All the decisions the government has made over the past few years and all the decisions that are now being proposed, and regarding economic growth, are exclusively in the role of political market and political, to say, the ratings of parties participating in the government. Everything Serbia is planning, as far as finance is concerned, it must plan at least on the medium term, which will give effect over the next five and ten years, respectively. Everything else comes down to spilling from hollow to empty. The government, or part of the government, is offering new borrowings. Who's gonna pay it back? Who's gonna pull those loans? On what? You just heard my colleagues talking about exports to this country. How's this country's export? Every dinar invested in this country must go into the real sector, a sector that will export, and that through this law exports, and possibly imports, are provided, or facilitates and stimulates, that the economy is finally beginning to breathe, that through growth in the economic activities of the regulatory sector, space is created for people to be able to provide an increase in consumption. The increase in the consumption of the loan is pointless. I said that 20% of our economy participates in exports; 20% of our exports are in GDP. To be healthy and stable, it must be at least 60%. Who guarantees us that such a growth model as the government offers us will give us the effects of consumption? Who's to guarantee they'll be spending their time on the right stuff? Who guarantees that we will spend on things that will raise domestic economy and domestic economic activities? Look what's going on -- there are estimates in the economic world that in Serbia, I don't know how many years to spend the most on food, because people don't have one for another. Who's to say we're going to buy some homemade food? Go into every market. It comes back down to customs and import. We eat Croatian ajvar, Croatian beet. Just laugh; on five jars of Croatian ajvar you have one "Diamant" or "crazy". For whom do we pass a law to simplify customs procedures? For the import lobby. So we will give money in consumption to enable progress and development of the import lobby, i.e. the economy of the countries in the environment. We can't agree with that, and it seems to me, in accordance with your statements, that neither can you, or you don't want to. It seems to us that, as one of the objectives of this law, you could accept it as an increase in the competitiveness of the domestic economy. It wouldn't cost you anything. But to commit yourself to it through this law, so that tomorrow someone who will suffer the consequences of the government's irresponsibility can be called to the law and said, "Why is this law not provided and why is the law not in this sense in function?" Like this, we seem to be running away from responsibility in this way. This would not undermine the concept of the law, nor would bring your European directives into question, but would give space to those who make up the domestic economy and the domestic real sector to seek, with the right, calling for laws, improving domestic economy, or its competitiveness on the market in the environment, so why not in the world. Watch out, defeating fact: yesterday we hear that the value of the annual exchange with Kuwait is 1m euros. That's how much one average tycoon makes in a month here. Not to mention how much these drug dealers, Saric, etc. spend. These are the figures that show where Serbia is today real and how devastating the truth behind your stories about European directives, European standards and the European perspective of Serbia. When it comes to borders and customs, Mrs Dragutinovic and you gentlemen who will vote for this, there is no European Union until Serbia clears its borders. This same European Union does not allow us to settle our borders and to place on the territory of the entire Republic the possibility of applying the law that we are talking about today. After the bitter experience of Cyprus, no one will be allowed into their borders by Europe without solving the problem of its borders. Whether you go to them or defend what you declare in both Serbia and the world, time will show. What we insist on is that you stop telling fairy tales to Serbian citizens about the European perspective, and that there are big, huge problems behind it, for you insolvent, because you are ready to compromise each species, which is put before you by the EU and the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36465	Thank you, and thank you for correcting me. I was wrong, you had amendments to Article 2. The People's MP Milorad Buha, who has a word, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36466	Article 2(2) of the Proposer of the Customs Code came out of the authority belonging to the customs authority, and I therefore requested that this position be deleted. It is said in Article 2(2) that the customs authority controls international trade in goods by contributing to free trade, implementing external aspects of the domestic market and trade principles, as well as general security in the chain of trade. I believe that such a proposal has left the context of the jurisdiction of the customs authority because this draft law gives them greater powers than normally in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia should have a customs authority. What is important to emphasise is that our country does not have a national strategy to stop negative flows in the areas of imports and exports. If we have determined that since 2001 we have a constant, drastic, huge, growth of imports, each government has to wonder what to do and how to slow down imports and stimulating measures to improve exports. That's what a national strategy does. Does this country have a national strategy? There isn't. Is he working on that national strategy? It's not working. Can we tell this government he's serious? We can't say. If the government realizes for ten years that we have a negative tendency, that we have a huge deficit, that it increases year after year, what does a serious government do? It stops that trend. With what? National strategy, legal projects, promotion of exporters, benefits, subsidies, etc. Is that what our government does? It's not working. We have to say this is a non-serious government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36467	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36468	With this amendment, we just wanted to draw attention to something that Article 4 regulates, which is information technologies, whatever they mean in terms of this law. Sure, let's just draw attention to what's going on. This law, first of all, aims to protect our market. He has to respect some of the fluids of imperialism, and that's foreign trade. It should enable the exercise of rights, obligations, interests, both for those who export and for those who import and for those who participate in the procedure. It's practically the content of this law. This should be contained in this law, whose adoption practically puts something out of effect that was already done in 2003 and changed in 2005 and 2006. We wanted to draw attention to these information technologies. Just to remind you, as great IT experts, people at the Privatisation Agency have been hired; now the fourth group is in the agency, and where are those three previous ones? They were distributed to ministries, public enterprises, private firms. Take their work books, and see what those young experts were doing there, experts in two or three languages, yuppie kids. See where they're being deployed today and what they're cleaning up in these companies today, and connect it to what you've been doing for a month, where you want to trace organized crime. It's a link to information technologies. You know what these information technologies provide. Otherwise, as regards what is regulated by Article 4, I believe that this should be one principle provision, and all the technical aspects of these integrations and the possibility of using an electronic connection, etc. The matter is for a sublegal act, because the customs law is not a technical regulation. He's not a technical regulation, no matter how you present him as a technical regulation. It must regulate the rights and obligations of those involved, but also give a dimension to where the state is, which is the role of the state. Check out some of your customs stations and customs authorities. I remember that, in the King, some yacht was customsed, as if it were King's in Barcelona. There's a lot going on. Take a look at those customs organs of yours. I remember when some of them got into medical medicine, you know what, Mercedes for Delhi. Resolve these affairs. Those affairs have been open for a long time. If you have the strength.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36469	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36470	There's one more thing to add. Namely, counterpart Krasic gave a detailed explanation and pointed to certain facts that are important and related to these provisions of the law. However, Madam President, I was given a rare opportunity because a number of citizens of Pancheva asked me if the health minister would respect the Constitution and the health law and whether the citizens of South Banat, the municipalities of Kovin, Pančevo, the White Church, the Landište, Alibunar, Kovacica and Opovo would have the right to be treated in Belgrade. A pregnant woman from Vrsac, who gave birth as an emergency in Belgrade, could not receive a refund from a subsidiary in Panchev. How long will it take, Madam President... And you're a respected doctor and specialist, and you know more than I know, but I have to tell you the great indignation of the citizens of Panchev, because for years they've been tormenting and from Panchev they're going to be treated in Vrbas, Novi Sad, Sremska Kamenica, and Belgrade is 15km ahead of their noses. Is this allowed? I've asked a question three times, and I'm not getting an adequate answer. In this case, will we, as it is the region's projection, reach Pest; will our citizens have customs relief when they bring drugs into Serbia, or Vojvodina, or southern Banat from Budapest? Please take appropriate measures. The citizens of Pancheva are offended, the citizens of Pancheva are humiliated, discriminated against their health and the enjoyment of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the health law. The Director of the Health Fund of the Republic of Serbia has raised his instruction above the Constitution and above the law, and you well know that it is illegal and illegal. I seek the responsibility of this person who has brought this direction and thus denied the right for the citizens of Panchev and South Banat to come and to be treated in Serbia, in its capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36471	The MP is required to stick to the agenda. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Krasic's last sentence made it clear to Serbian citizens that it is very healthy to drive in a "mercedes", given that "mercedes" is customs as a means of health care. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, last item: "The Director of Customs Administration determines the conditions under which economic operators can address customs administration by electronic means. “ I asked that this “Government of Customs” be replaced by the words “Minister of Finance” because I believe that the Ministry of Finance should determine these conditions under which economic operators will address customs administration by electronic means. This is how it will be. The incense sues you, the incense judgeth you. This will enable the Director of Customs Administration to determine which economic operators will be able to address them by electronic means and which they will not. This way, many economic operators will slow down, and this is how to give a state authority information that doesn't belong to them at all. The finance ministry is required to provide preconditions and conditions for the implementation of this, otherwise the law. If amendments to the SRS and other amendments to the MPs are not adopted, this law will only be an empty letter on paper and will be a law on a drawer or policy law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36473	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36474	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the best example of the hornath of this law, which is Article 5. He's on four pages. Some laws don't have more than four pages. We're not saying that customs law can regulate that area on so many sides, but this should be one law that the government has to affirm. How and for what? Simply, to speed up exports, and thus create conditions for new jobs. That would be the right thing to do then. Article 5 defines certain terms, better said terms used in this law. We have noted in Article 5 paragraph 1 point (1): “The person is a natural person or a legal person... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We suggested that the point be put there, and the rest of the text in point 1) of this attitude be deleted, for it follows: "... an association of persons and entrepreneurs recognised in accordance with the regulations the ability to take legal actions." Faces can even be divided into legal and physical. There is a large spectrum of legal entities within the legal entity, in general the state bodies that are being placed there, and you now want to share the person's association, to say: besides legal and physical, there are also joint natural persons and entrepreneurs. That was completely unnecessary and pointless. In addition, this best confirms point 25) of Article 5: “The submission of the declaration is the submission of the declaration... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” There is also an extension: “... the competent customs authority, in the prescribed form and in a prescribed manner, in order to implement the customs procedure. “ So the submission of the declaration is the submission of the declaration to the competent authority. I don't think those people in the import or export business knew that this was to be submitted to the competent authority, but perhaps the person responsible for enrolment in the birth certificates submitted those customs declarations, which should otherwise be filed, as you say. This reminds me of an unemployed man who enters the meadow and starts counting the grass; instead of cutting it, he counts it. So this government, about to show that it takes four or more years for it to do a certain part of the job, it does nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36475	The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36476	Dear MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5(1) of the Customs Code proposal – after the word "physical" the word "face" is deleted. The amendment proposes a legal and technical correction that complements the actual name of the state body. Since the amendments to the Customs Act are on the agenda today, I ask the Minister when will the Kruševac receive customs duty, since he now has a customs office and the customs office is in the King? Why am I asking this? Because in the last six years DS and State Secretary Miodrag Djidic have promised each election whether it was local, republican, presidential, in the campaign for the citizens of Kruševec customs, and we haven't received it yet. Kruševac's got a lot of problems with the customs station. For the last five years, the customs station has moved three times. The last location was in "Metal Transport" (owned by Amza Kaplani), and it was there for two years. Four months ago, she moved to South Bogdan Street, to the offices, and trucks and tow trucks were customs in the open, next to the train station, without video surveillance, most nights and nights. The privatisation of Metalpromet was attended by Mr Miodrag Djidic and Goran Krasic, members of the DS, and helped Amza Kaplanija buy "Metalpromet". Madam Minister, there's a lot of abuse going on. We've been pointing out this for the last two years and we said customs can't be in a private company, and eventually there'll be problems. Problems at the DS in Krusevec were caused by the customs and exits of 1900 members from the Democratic Party. In May 2009, two test tubes disappeared from customs. The tubes are used to produce plastic packaging. It's worth over 200,000 euros. Is it by any chance that the current DS coalition partner is the only one that produces plastic packaging in Kruševec? What I'm telling you, here are two CDs, which I'll give you after my speech, with two local TV shows - Patrol 1 and 2, dedicated to customs. For this someone has to answer, either State Secretary Miodrag Djidic or owner of a private company "Metal Transport" Amza Kaplani or people working on a customs display. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36477	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36478	Dear Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Kruševec, I suggest that this amendment be rejected, because we have heard a series of accusations here in line with the policy of a party who is sad and angry because it has lost power in the town of Krusevec, and during its term of office has not brought any investment into the city. Now that the Ministry of Finance is planning to build a modern customs office and when the tender procedure is under way, when all the work that will contribute significantly to the development of the town of Kruševac and the Rasin County, when the citizens of Kruševec will no longer have to go to the Kingdom to take their goods customs, will already be able to carry out all the jobs in their city, we now see an attack on such an investment, and it is an unargumented attack, an attack that does not correspond to the facts and which aims to compromise this idea. I know there are people who have spare cities, and I know that there are people who have a spare homeland, and I know that there are people whose Kruševac is just a side stop, but there are us who have the most beautiful place in the galaxy in the world, who have us in the first place, above the party, above political interest, above personal interest. We, as God has given us, love this city and try to do something about it and keep it behind us. I'll just point out that customs duties at the private customs office lost 50,000 euros a month in the town of Kruševac. Every month 50,000 euros were left by private entrepreneurs of the town of Kruševec to someone who had some interest and now that it is no longer seen crying, sobbing and moving some who have lost 50,000 euros. I understand that everyone has the right to protect their own material and economic interest, but no one has the right to place their personal material and economic interest as the general interest of the town of Kruševec. No one has the right to point out that because of the failure of his own party (sometimes his vice president is in one party, the president of the municipality in the other party) and because of his own political failure points to the other and says the other is guilty. Maybe they're also the citizens of Kruševec because they can recognize the work and efforts to get Kruševac out of the fungi in which he is? I'm going to ask this gentleman who's throwing me, who's in power in Priboj, who's arguing along with his party that he's going to run the Priboj, does Priboj run by starting a slide in Priboj, and then the Priboj spa disappears because someone's digging a pool without a license? Kruševac and Priboj are driven by investment, and investment comes from what the Government of the Republic of Serbia says – it is good that Kruševac has its own customs office. Eleven more Serbian cities have their own customs office. The value of the investment approved by the finance ministry for the town of Kruševac is over threem euros. These works will be performed by Kruševec private entrepreneurs, who during the previous speaker's term did not have the opportunity to work in Kruševec, unless they give some percentage to someone, but were performed 200km away from Kruševec. As Kruševljanin, I am very proud of all the activities of Mr Miodrag Djidić and all the activities the Democratic Party in Krusevec is taking to get the city out of the crisis, in which it was found guilty by some people who exercised power and experienced it as a lucrative job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36479	The word is Mrs. Verica Radeta, the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36480	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, a member of 27 has just been broken. I'm afraid you didn't follow what my colleague Milivojevic was saying here earlier. Of course, he has the right to represent the interests of his party, like any of us, because that is the essence of what we do here. None of us thought of it, nor of our colleagues to Duvnjak, to mention to Mr Milivojevic that 300 people from his Kruševec party came to demonstrate against him and other officials here in front of the party. That's not what we're interested in, it's an internal matter of the Democratic Party, but what should interest both us and you... I was really surprised by the way my colleague Milivojevic talked about my colleague Duvnjak having some spare legacy, a spare city, etc. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic and counterpart Milivojevic, Momcilo Duvnjak and hundreds of thousands of Serbs have come to other towns by force because they were driven from there by friends of Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic's party. I really think it is inappropriate for hundreds of thousands of Serbs, who cannot live on their hearths today, I repeat, by the will of the great forces, by the will of the Croatian Ustasha state, by the will of Muslim authorities, by all together friends Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36481	Mrs. Radeta, I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. The talker's tendency was to say that he tied his life, political engagement, and plans to the future to a far greater extent to Kruševac. That's how I realized. I don't think he wanted anyone to be underestimated in any way, especially in the sense that you interpreted it. If you disagree and you think the Rules of Procedure have been injured, we can make a statement in the voting day. (Miss Radeta, from the city: Yes. ) We will declare ourselves in the day of voting. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36482	Madam President, unfortunately, I must point out that perhaps at the time you did not interrupt the previous speaker, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, because a number of unacceptable insults based on complete untrueness were actually made in the previous speech. I think the political argument that had previously been provoking Mr. Milivojevic's reaction was also an unargumented accusation, slander and some data that were absolutely not based on facts. If you didn't react then by referring to an article. 101st and 104th, I think you've had to react in the event of Mrs. Verita's exposure. I don't want to go back to that past whose consequences we all suffer, including Mr. Duvnjak, but not just him, and I'm not going to say that the ally of that policy was your policy. So the greatest ally of this policy whose consequences we are suffering today was your policy. The result is the position of these people, who had to leave their hearths. In no word has anyone in this regard made an inequality between the citizens of Serbia, but it is still unacceptable to say that those who led the policy in response to your policy, or the policy with which you had an excellent understanding at the time and led it together to the harm of people, that it was the friends of the Democratic Party, least of all President Boris Tadic or anyone who stood up for it all along and fought for the peaceful way of solving problems, not war-wrestling.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36483	In principle, whenever you enter political views into your statements, not only do you step away from the topic, but we are not actually doing the work that we are in parliament for, and I could always interrupt the speakers, and then it would cause replication and affect the efficiency of the work. I agree that there are elements and that it can be understood that there was indeed an insult in political qualifications. If you think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, I suggest that in the day of the vote we plead. (Nada Kolundji, from the city: No. ) The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36484	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, if you carefully read my discussion from the stenogram, you will see that I have not pointed out for a moment that Mr. Duvnjak has a backdrop. If Mrs. Radeta called him and recognized him in my discussion, then that's their problem, not mine. As a Kruševljanin, I can only tell you that there is a beautiful song about the town of Kruševec: “Near the river Rasina and Jastrepac, high mountains, as a garden of flowered roses, the town of Kruševac provides all hands. ” We've all given hands to hundreds of thousands of people who have passed through that city through its history. After NATO aggression in the town of Krusevec, 20,000 people from Kosovo and Metohija were given a hand. While they were being beaten by some, from a party that just appeared to some collective centres, we gave them a job, provided the existence, cared for them. They're our fellow citizens, and we're very proud of that. We've never shared people with newcomers and natives. When I say that someone has a spare home, they don't have to be outside Serbia's borders, they can be in Serbia as well. My grandfather's from Chačka, he's come to Kruševac and he's never given up the Sheepman and the Cablar. It can also be a spare home. If someone recognized someone in my discussion, it's his problem, not mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36485	MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36486	Replication to Mr Milivojevic's first discussion because he pointed his hand at me – Mr. etc. I sat here all by myself. It literally referred to me. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not mention the 300 Democrats who came here to protest, because I think it's an internal issue. I'm not saying they protested against Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic and his relationship with the Democratic Party in Krusevec. All said Mr. Milivojevic, but he didn't say he didn't answer one question -- who stole two corrugated tubes for PET packaging and who damaged Serbia's country by 200,000 euros precisely in your Krusevec, Mr. Milivojevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36487	Mr. Dragan Stevanovic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. You have two minutes as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36488	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there really is some discussion opening up and then heavy words fall down. I'm not getting into it at all who said what a tough word. Someone who represents the majority today gives himself the right to honor the opposition's hypocrisy. The representatives of most in their hypocrisy begin to talk about investments, jobs, offered jobs, etc., and this government, supported by the majority of them, cannot find a consensus about how we're going to get out of trouble, how we're going to get out of the fungi, how we're going to ensure the lives of worthy citizens in the 21st century. You know, politics is a process, sometimes you do good, sometimes you do bad. It is not disputed to accept the electoral defeat, but it is even less controversial to accept the citizens' electoral will. Do you know what hypocrisy is? After ten years of hypocrisy, the authorities have been burdening themselves with the story that someone who once ran a policy is guilty of what's happening to him today. The Serbian Radical Party has participated in power for two years during the 1990s and will never give up these two years, but it is truly hypocritical to call on the allies of the 1990s and that these same allies of the SRS today do not disturb you in the government and that you are sitting with them in government, that you are tailoring economic policy and creating problems that Serbia today has. What's also unacceptable to us is that our former allies are silent about such findings. What are you quiet about? Shut up, it's on them. It's really untasteful that today, after ten years of government so-called. DOS doesn't believe it's better than it was in the '90s... (President: You've wasted your time as an authorised representative. I have the time of the parliamentary group. (President: You can, but you're not talking about the subject at all. You've gone so far from the subject. ) You know, someone was talking about the back-up countries of the amendment that was filed under customs law. That's when he didn't go far because the MP group had time. I don't mind, but then be equal in the arches, so apply them to Srdjan Milivojevic and Dragan Stevanovic. Momcilo Duvnjak, MP of the SRS, supported all the disks, with two CDs to hand over to representatives of the government, or the ministry. Mrs Dragutinovic, it took this country five or ten years to collect courage, not because it has a political will, but because it has expressed a certain political interest, that after ten years such a shy reckoning with some who have created economic relations in those same ten years ago. That is why it is not bad to look at this disc, you may find traces of the facts of Momcilo Duvnjak, not that someone disqualifies them just because a personal friend of a certain Mr. Djidic, with whom he shared the unpleasantness, whom three hundred members of the Democratic Party called together in front of the board in Krusevec.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36489	One minute and forty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36490	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 5 explains the meaning of certain terms in this bill. I have submitted an amendment to point 5, which defines the meaning of the term "domestic goods": "Home goods in general are obtained or produced in the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia, which does not contain goods imported from countries or territories outside the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia and goods imported from countries or territories outside the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is put into free circulation". I believe that this provision is "a slave from countries or territories outside the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia" unarranged and that it is as such inappropriate for a legal solution. I ask Minister Mrs Dragutinovic to take the bill and pay attention to the following. The first fact, all countries, except the Serbian state, are outside the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia. If you say "from countries outside the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia", then a logical conclusion is made that there are countries within the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia and there are no such countries. When I read this bill of law, I concluded that it was a technical mistake. To be honest, I thought that mistake would be removed by submitting the amendment itself and that the amendment would be accepted. But I was wrong. In an explanation for the refusal of the amendment, signed by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, the same mistake is repeated -- states and territories outside the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia are mentioned again. In my opinion, there are two logical solutions here. The first solution is to accept this amendment and to remain only a formulation "of goods imported from territories outside the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia". That formulation covers everything. So there's no mention of states. There is another solution, which is even better than this solution I have proposed with the amendment, which is to insert the word "others". In that case, the formulation would read: "Home goods are imported from other countries or from territories outside the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia". Why is this a better solution? Because we have Kosovo and Metohija, which is not another country for Serbia, it is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, but it is a practical area of the outside customs territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think this would satisfy the form, and I suggest that the minister use his right to accept or reject the amendment, as she did, but to insert the word "others" in front of the word "state". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36491	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36492	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that Article 6 paragraph 1 delete the words "under the conditions provided for in Articles 89, 2 and 3 of this Law". The words whose erasure I suggest are too high, completely unnecessary. Article 89(2) states: “When the acceptance of the declaration imposes special obligations on a particular person, the declaration must be submitted to that person or another person on his behalf and to his account. ” In the same article, the following stance says, "The Declarant must have a seat or place of residence in the Republic of Serbia". Article 6(1), which I have submitted to the amendment, speaks of the right of each person to appoint a representative to represent him in the customs procedure, in a procedure conducted by the customs authority. It's a very clear determination. So, Article 6 speaks of a broader matter, of a customs procedure, and Article 89 speaks of only one segment of the customs procedure, of who can file a declaration for the customs procedure. For this reason, I believe that the amendment should be accepted. I'm taking the opportunity to point out the fact that customs law and customs policy are unarranged and bad, much thanks to our country being flooded by goods from abroad, and our foreign trade deficit is a terrifyingly large and literally daily frightening growth. When the parties now in power, except for the SPS, have broken Milosevic in good time, I remind you that the rules, people said, are a joke with his co-operation with the Republic of China. Now you claim China is one of four pregnant pillars of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, and it's good if it is. However, it is not good that our stores are literally covered in Chinese goods of poor quality, I am primarily referring to textile goods, and at the same time you have closed, practically, the complete textile industry of Serbia and more than 200,000 workers, professional people who made goods that were valued in Europe, thrown into the street. It's bad that we don't produce anything in Serbia. Yesterday I heard information, which I didn't know before, that Serbia wasn't even producing toothpicks, it was importing them from China! You destroyed the meat industry, so now chickens, veal and other meat, third or fourth categories, we import from Brazil. The only move you've made in the area of agriculture, so now you can't buy beans from Tetov on our markets, but we're buying beans from Kazakhstan!
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36493	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36494	Dear Members, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6(4). The proposal for a customs law to say ‘except in the cases referred to in Article 89(1) and (2) of this Act’ shall be deleted. The amendment proposes a legal-technical correction, which suggests erasing unnecessary words. On the occasion of the previous amendment, I was talking about customs duties in Kruševec and I'll tell you some more things about customs in Kruševec, so the minister and the government will see if I'm telling the truth or not. The town of Kruševac gave the land of the old "Merime" in the city centre for the customs station seven-eight years ago. That's why the customs station in Krushevec gave up. Why, we don't know, and the citizens of Kruševac want to know and ask for an answer from the minister or the government of the Republic of Serbia. Then the big games started around the customs station in Kruševec. In February 2009, a meeting was agreed at the finance ministry to move the customs exposition to the Zupa Chemical Industry, as "Zupa" became state-owned after the failure of privatisation. The meeting was attended by: Mr Miodrag Djidic, Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Petronijevic, Director of Customs Administration, Mr. Radosavljevic, Director of the Tax Administration. The meeting agreed (and it was done): part of the Management Building of the Chemical Industry "Zupa" was refurbished for the use of the customs office in Kruševec, a complete counter hall was made, with all necessary electronic connections for smooth work. Offices for customs workers have been provided, as well as auxiliary rooms. There's a ground floor for the freighter's work. A parking lot for 80 trucks has been completed. Every truck entry into the Kaplani company, where it was customs, the owner charged 1200 dinars. There were between 80 and 90 trucks a day, calculated at the level of the month, that's about three million dinars. The parish accepted that the truck's entry would be free of charge. The Parish gave up, we don't know why. It wasn't the Serbian Radical Party, it was the Democratic Party, gentlemen. We were neither at the republican level at the time, nor at the locale. Who gave up on the Parish, we don't know. Now the new location is the land behind "14. October’. Whose land is this? I'm telling you, there's a lot of abuse going on around the customs station in Krusevec. That's what the DS is doing. If I lied to you, you have two CDs here that I gave up. This was not part of the Serbian Radical Party. I just put out what the citizens are looking for. Just to say, if Mr. MP hadn't told a lie about me, I've been Momcilo Duvnjak, a 31-year-old craftsman, private, living in Kruševec since 1982. In the former Yugoslavia, it's no good when a man talks about himself, it's very bad, a quadruple champion in autogenic welding. I'm proud to be Moma Bosnian, that's what they call me. It is true what Mrs Verica Radeta said, the war in Republika Srpska began with the attack by Croats on the village of Donji Malovan, where I was born on April 2, 1992. It is true that 16 of my brothers, relatives, friends, godfathers died that day. I've never talked about this before, and I wouldn't talk about it. Many have been taken to the infamous port of Laura. I was on the battlefield, I'll go again, if the government of Milorad Dodik calls me, any of them, because that's where my grandfathers, my fathers, my uncles all lived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36495	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36496	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I will use the time of the MEP's Group of ZES. When I said earlier that I was proposing that this amendment be rejected, I stuck to what every party holds when it passed laws that are in the interest of the citizens of this country. The law is based on reason, truth and knowledge. If we talk about old Mary's land to bring down the old Merima, clean it up, and make it a customs station, it would cost like three customs stations. Of course, in the Democratic Party, we are thinking responsibly about the Republic of Serbia, the town of Krusevec, every part of the Republic of Serbia, and as responsible people who think responsibly about their country, we cannot be irresponsible to its property. One who is unable to keep state property out of public service should stick to an autogenic welding machine. Anyone who can't save and guard the state's register should treat his cashier, not the state's. He who can't, won't and won't see what his eyes say... Can the one whose eyes haven't helped help the eyelashes? Of course I can't. Because no contract has ever been made with the parish chemical industry to make a counter joke there. Maybe it was made there by some stealth technology, the same technology that made the SRS and their coalition partners in the town of Kruševac, when they ran the town of Kruševac, make 200 jobs, 2,000 jobs, or I don't know how many jobs. I don't trust CDs, I trust my eyes. My eyes tell me there's no room in Parish, there's no parking lot. We can check it out right now, go and see it on the spot. Nor has such a contract been made between the Customs Administration and the town of Kruševac and the Chemical Industry "Zupa". It is only true that it is from ‘14. October" taken land on very favourable terms, that a tender is under way and that a customs office, one of the most modern in the Republic of Serbia, will be built there. It is true that some who have lost their money, who have taken from the pear industry, from those people who work there, are now in a great deal of trouble because the Law on the financing of political parties restricts them from taking money. When money disappears from private funds, when you rely only on the number of MPs, then it can be insufficient in relation to needs and appetites. If you're housewives of what you've been entrusted with and given to management, then you have no problem with security or money. I'm very sorry if someone recognized myself in my discussion, that they didn't welcome the town of Kruševac. Anyone who wants to work and to be professionally realized and to live in that city is welcome, but anyone who sees Kruševac as a private property, anyone who experiences power on the principle of "take, grab, carry now and never again", is not welcome either to Kruševac or to any public function. I'm undermining, the one who can't store state property shouldn't be doing public business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36497	National MP Dragan Stevanovic, within the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is indeed true that responsibility to the public's interest, to property and to the state at all, should be translated into every law that this assembly has passed. No one has a dilemma here. But it is strange that officials, who have promoted, have called on responsibility to be held accountable in the last few years in this country. Now you're saying this for the public. It is indeed inappropriate to call on party representatives to be responsible during whose authorities carried out the worst, most criminal privatisations in the Republic of Serbia. Here's an example of the state's responsible relationship in the last eight or nine years since DOS came to power, according to state and public property. It seems to me, Madam Minister, that I once said it, but it's not bad to say it again. I'm not going to call on these job stories, promises, I don't know what we had in the last action, I'm going to say something concrete. This is a contract between one bank and one company owned by a senior party official who, along with the Democratic Party and other parties, has been in power for the past few years. You see, this firm takes and buys another firm in privatisation; for catastrian plots one, two, three, four, five, six or seven will pay only 1.057,000 dinars. Then the responsible individuals, who have been responsible for power over the last ten years, have raised a loan of 230,000,000 dinars to the land of a bank, and this same bank of land that paid a million dinars to an estimated 480,000,000 dinars. This is just one example of the responsibility discussed here today, to which officials today in Serbia are calling. I didn't want to be banal and repeat what we talk about daily and what we face daily, but if it hadn't been for this kind of responsibility, probably today, Mrs Dragutinovic, the level of investment in Serbia would have been higher. You wouldn't cobble with the revenue side of the budget, you wouldn't patch holes where you couldn't support them, with all your knowledge and respect for the knowledge you have. You cannot overcome problems, with all your knowledge, because of this "domestic" behavior, and you are aware of it. The problem and the question is how much longer will we all be able to put up with this responsibility and household rule together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36499	The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36500	Dear Presidents, honourable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for customs law to introduce a new position in article 7 between the second and third positions, which reads: "For indirect representation in the customs procedure, the indirect agent is obliged to have, in addition to the authority for representation, a contract with the person representing the person in whom the liability of a possible customs offence will be defined." In Article 7. The proposal for a customs law is specified under which conditions a legal person may carry out indirect representation in the customs procedure and the obligation to attend training and to pass a special expert examination in the Customs Administration, which means that he must be trained professionally and qualified to carry out indirect representation in the customs procedure. For all actions taken by the indirect agent on behalf of and for the account of the person representing the person must also bear responsibility for the failures and errors made to the damage of the person representing the customs procedure. Therefore, there must be a written representation contract, which will define responsibility for a possible customs offence, which is the reason for the submission of this amendment. If the indirect agent misrepresents the goods at customs duty, and therefore there is a lower rate of customs duty, there is a customs offence and penalty, which should be borne solely by the indirect representative, and not by the person represented by the contract. The representative shall also be employed and paid for his unquestionable expertise in the knowledge of customs regulations. This is just one example in a number of situations where customs violations can occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36501	The title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36502	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, this law regulates, above all, the entry and amount of goods arriving and exported from the Republic of Serbia. What is important and should be said when it comes to agriculture is that the state does not take appropriate measures to protect farmers, orchards, cattle and vegetables. Our government tends to import waste from the EU, when it comes to meat, meat processing, which is derived from the refrigeration plant, and have been lying for twenty years, are in a state of decomposition, instead of paying more attention to winemaking, fruit growing, vineyarding than the Government does. Since we import everything and everything, I said, freely from the EU, we have endangered meat and livestock production in Serbia, most of all. Imports are the worst and worst on the market. This government and state forget that they have huge resources and areas where huge amounts of healthy food, healthy meat can be produced. Let's just take the great Zlatibor, who once had 300,000 sheep, and now under this government, you don't have to count 50 sheep in hundreds of thousands of hectares, which no one handles, no use. Consider also Tara, Zlatar, Murtenica, Jasenovo, House, White River, Javor, Goli, Cave, Ljubish, Wrong River, Straight River, not to mention. The Ministry of Agriculture, and there is the Ministry of Finance, which holds that little leather bag as an icon, in which funds are poured into the budget by taxpayers, should pay greater attention to helping cattlemen produce healthy food for our needs and for export, that those who produce healthy food, healthy meat, healthy fruit can thus make a greater contribution to the state, both to themselves and to the state, to have exports. I don't think the state takes adequate measures when it comes to incentives for the development of livestock. I just told you, take now Malen, Povlen, Mučanj, the Deliblat cave, take just how many tycoons are now used, and no pastures have been returned to those villages and settlements in Serbia that should have been returned by law long ago. Serbian Radical Party Thinks State The government of the Republic of Serbia must allocate funds to encourage agriculture, to encourage livestock, fruit growing, vegetables and other branches that can make a major contribution to this country and help citizens to get out of the crisis more easily and thus benefit us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36503	The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36504	Thank you. The amendment to Article 9(1) requires that the words ‘authorised economic operator’ be replaced by the words ‘authorised company’. In view of the government's reasons why it did not accept this amendment, it is said, approximately, that the term "economic operator" covers companies and entrepreneurs, so that, as the Government says, if this amendment were accepted, entrepreneurs could not enjoy the privileges conferred on them by the status of an authorised economic operator, which is not the intensity of the customs law. Madam Minister, the government's explanation that the term "business entity" covers both companies and entrepreneurs, and that companies do not at the same time include entrepreneurs simply do not stand. This could be accepted as true only in one case, and this is if the Business Society Act had a full name – a law on companies and economic operators. However, since this is the Business Society Act, this is more appropriate than my amendment. At the same time, by looking at things and the termologically, you can justifiably ask what an economic operator is? What would be the negation of that? Is there anything else contrary to those words "a business entity"? That's why I'm saying that it would be more appropriate to have the solution provided for by my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36505	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36506	As well as the amendment to Article 5 and the amendment to Article 10, which I bear on behalf of the SRS, is more technical than essential. Article 10 has defined the conditions for applying the criteria, which the Government needs to establish, providing the benefits to economic operators or companies. In Article 10(1), point (1) says – conditions for the approval of the status of authorised economic operator. We suggested that it be said: "authorised business society". Let me tell you, in Serbia, there will be no better living with this definition of a business entity, no different. And if the amendment had been accepted, nothing would have been better with a solution like this. By retaining such a solution as in the bill, nothing will be better, but we have failed to recognise the government's will, or willingness, and the possibility, that this law is fighting for increased exports of products from Serbia and to enable the employment of unemployed persons in Serbia. One of my colleagues says 200 - 300 workers are employed in a beautiful city, in Kruševec. [[naturally, discussing more on the replica than on the amendment]] Any employment should be good and serve the authorities with pride, but that employment that creates new values. It is unnecessary to talk about any employment and criticise any local government, if it is known that from 2000 to today, the republican administration has increased by 20,000 people in ten years. We tried, because of the IMF's influence, to discuss the proposals for these laws that were on the agenda in this parliament at the end of December and the law specified a number of 28,400, a maximum number of employees. Now the government finds opportunities, whether establishing or setting up new agencies or republican bodies and organisations, how to keep that number of employees, rather than trying to create conditions in the real sector to employ as many citizens as possible. We also expect citizens of Serbia to want to create conditions for new employment, not for arguing whether they will have the name of a business entity or a business society. As a lawyer, I am fully aware of what the government was trying to achieve, as well as what we have submitted as an amendment. Do something, since you are not ready, you are not showing enough will to accept the amendment, for legal-technical adjustment of this, according to us important, law; at least try to create conditions that it can be properly applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36507	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Zivkov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36508	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to Article 10, item 1 point 5 – the conditions under which the status of the authorised economic operator can be abolished, as well as the procedure for abolishing that status. My amendment is of a technical nature, as Mr. Munjic explained earlier. The government responded to my amendment with the same text as my colleagues, Lightning. I believe that these answers, such as governmental responses, are unsatisfactory and that, Madam Minister, you could accept the amendments submitted by Mr. Munjic and I in front of the SRS. I believe that the amendment I have submitted is replaced by the words "authorised economic operator" in the words "authorised company"... The "authorised company" is a broader concept and this law would include entrepreneurs and all other companies and businesses involved in this business. I think that's the essential thing, which is technical. The law that we are passing, and which will certainly be voted upon, is necessary, but I believe that the state, government and resolution ministries in charge of the development and economy of this country should have little more account to bear, as far as exports are concerned. We have heard here a few comments that far greater imports than exports from our country (the ratio is one to three), and this has been achieved by various laws that you have passed in the previous period, such as the one-way law on the trade agreement, which is the main culprit for larger imports of goods. I think that all those affairs you've been making since 2000 and to this day, and they're not solved (I'd like to hear about which affair you've solved), could be branded, then exported to the market of Europe, which is expecting us, to accept us in a hug, so that you can export all those affairs branded, you would certainly improve the economy of this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36509	Thank you. MP Vlatko Ratkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36510	Thank you. I do not believe that the amendment of the distinguished colleague should be accepted, nor should a set of these amendments tabled by the MPs of the SRS, precisely for the reasons and arguments given by the Government. So, I don't think, as my colleague said, the government's argument is insurmountable. I believe the explanation that the applicants of the amendment gave was completely unfounded and unfounded. In fact, the Business Society Act clearly distinguishes companies as companies of a person, a company of capital, so that we have limited liability companies, command companies, stock companies, etc., but we also have entrepreneurs, so that the term "economic operator" sublimates and covers both companies and entrepreneurs. The intensities of this customs law, and at all the intensities of any customs law in any country, should also include the procedure for the control of the activity carried out by not only companies, companies, what is called coloquial, but also entrepreneurs. Therefore, I propose that this amendment be not accepted, starting, among other things, and from the arguments given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36511	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Arsen Djuric wants a word. Mr. Zivkov, you answered again? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36512	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Nenad Popovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. We suggested that the first position of that member be changed and said: “The first-degree decision of the customs office may be appealed to the Board of Appeals of the Customs Administration. The commission, president of the commission, as well as members of the commission, is appointed by the minister on a proposal from the director of the customs administration. Closer working conditions for the Commission are laid down by the rules of procedure on the work of the Commission. “ We have proposed these amendments because we feel it is unnecessary to state that the procedure before the customs office is conducted according to the rules of administrative procedure, as it is already stated in Article 11. It's a bill of law. We also believe that it is enough to make the Board of Appeals of the Customs Administration, as well as the members of that commission, appoint the Minister responsible for Finance Affairs and, on a proposal from the Director of Customs Administration. This amendment clarifies more precisely that the conditions for the Commission's work are approaching and that its conduct is regulated by the rules of procedure on work. We consider our proposal and our formulation of this Article 1 item to be more precise and clear, and we invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36513	Thank you. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Mr. Djuric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36514	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, we have tabled an amendment to Article 28, which was scheduled to be deleted by article 28. I will read the draft law Article 28: “The government prescribes in which cases and under what conditions customs formalities and controls can be simplified. ” We believe it is not appropriate for the government to be given that kind of authority. We think that the area of customs procedures is regulated by law and thus allows for full legal certainty. I don't think it makes sense to allow the executive authority to define the conditions under which customs formalities and customs controls are simplified on its own and based on the criteria itself. We think this amendment should be accepted because we think it's wrong for the government to have that kind of authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36515	Thank you. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36516	The amendment should not be accepted because Article 28 does not authorise the Government to decide on the abolition, modification and modification of the customs procedure, as claimed by the applicants. In accordance with Articles 5 and 28, it is the Government's authority to simplify customs formalities and controls in precisely prescribed cases. Therefore, the amendment is unfounded and should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36517	The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs Dragutinovic, finance ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this Article 28 covers the part concerning the simplification of customs formalities and controls. As we have been able to hear in the debate so far, it is a bill that has several technical characteristics, although I suppose, given the current economic situation and what should be regulated, and in this regard, an item concerning increasing the competitiveness of domestic economy, reducing imports, increasing exports, regulating what Serbia is unfortunately facing today, which is an extremely strong import lobby which apparently dictates certain movements, and also in legislation, without entering the monetary sphere on the course of the dinar... We felt that this amendment would be carried out exclusively legal-technical correction, which would in the right way, and with some justification or support found primarily in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, complete the actual name of a state body, which is to add the words "Republic of Serbia" after the word "Government". We felt that there were absolutely no other barriers to this amendment being rejected. The explanation given for the refusal of this amendment states that the foothold is in the Government Act, etc. Given the many inexplicable things that are within the scope of this bill, I believe that such an amendment, a legal-technical correction, could come to the understanding of the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36519	Thank you. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36520	The amendment of a respected colleague is identical to a group of amendments submitted by other MPs. After the words "Government" are asked to add the words "Republic of Serbia". On the Legislative Committee, we have considered the legal possibility of this amendment and it is undeniable that this is legally possible. But the acceptance of this amendment would mean one excess of the content of the law. Even the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in its chapter on governing the government, speaks of the government, not of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Some things are meant to be. Imagine a situation where, for example, Article 125 of Section 2. The constitution, which speaks of the Prime Minister, which reads: "The Prime Minister is leading and directing the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia" etc., reads this: "The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is leading and directing the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, taking care of the uniform political functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, harmonizes the work of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and represents the Government of the Republic of Serbia". From a normative and legal point of view, this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36521	The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36522	It's about the same story, the same argument that was made when the previous amendment was submitted. It's a legal technical correction again. What I have stated in the presentation of the previous amendment, I believe absolutely stands and that what Mr. Ratkovic made in his earlier address as an argument or that legal normation... In our opinion, absolutely nothing would be lost on such a proposed legal solution compared to what would result in the acceptance of the amendments that we have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36523	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure have been tabled by the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36524	Thank you. I asked, like colleagues, for the words "Republic of Serbia" to be added after the words "Government". I believe that the explanation of fellow Ratkovic, in order to result in an overload, does not really stand. The fact is, this wouldn't change the essence of this member or the law. The amendments submitted would absolutely not change the essence of the law in general, nor this member. Something logical has been sought, that our government in one member of the bill gets the provision that belongs to it, which it logically belongs to, which is – the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think this is completely logical and that this, as well as these other amendments, should have been accepted. I'd point to something else, which is the double arches that the government applies in the application of these customs regulations. As you explain, Madam Minister, the fact that a state body, customs office, at one point, on the basis of the valid documentation it itself requested, the otter of a certain number of items, for example two or three thousand vehicles, and that after a certain time (six months) these same customs ads, as well as other competent state authorities and the MUP, that such customs duties are not valid, that it is true that customs has done its part of the job, it is true that the state has taken a certain amount of money from those people who have delineated their belongings, however, that this does not now apply because of other conclusions which have occurred, that it is annulled, that these vehicles are taken away, etc.? I'm not going into any of the other things that are relevant to this situation, but I'm saying it's the application of double arches when it comes to these provisions, or customs regulations. You can't say at one point that something's wrong, charge the citizens of Serbia a certain amount of money and put them before the final act that part of the job is finished, and after a certain number of months say it's wrong; someone's wrong, not those people who paid, but the state authorities who charged, and maybe they shouldn't have charged. It's those double arches in application of customs regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36525	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36526	This amendment should not be accepted, and the explanation is as for previous amendments, which are completely identical. It's not about similar amendments, it's about identical ones; it's about "Government" everywhere, and "Republic of Serbia" is what they say. The illustrations, as pointless as this would be, mention in 14 members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia 108 times the word "Government" and never say "Republic of Serbia", which simply implies. By estimating the meaning of these amendments, we can only conclude that the law is good and that the opposition did not have the right argument to challenge this law, on the one hand, and on the other hand that these amendments are submitted only to allow time for discussion, which is legitimate, but in no way gives meaning to the amendments that have been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36527	The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36528	This amendment is similar to the previous one, however, some things need to be explained. We've submitted the amendments just to distract us. As it is pointless to speak European Hope, the European Kolundzija, European Vlatko, European Ratkovic, so it is pointless and this argument is that it is something that is too normous or insane. It absolutely doesn't matter. You missed the whole subject. However, what it implements through this law, which is a kind of infection since 2001, we say, when everyone started writing laws, we now do not know where it ends and where it begins something that is in the power of the minister as an in-house body of the ministry, where it begins and where something that is the responsibility of the ministry begins and where something that is the authority of the government ends. In the affairs of the state administration, and these are the affairs of the state administration, with its specificity, because the entire customs procedure stems from the administrative procedure, it must be said that there is not something that can be called a shared jurisdiction, but not a real or local one, but a normative one. There's a total mess here. Here for almost identical or similar things can be prescribed by the minister, by the ministry, by the government. You may nod to your will, but I have brought down several regulations in the Constitutional Court because you have previously taken Article 2(2) for regulations. The government law. This article says that the government is making regulations. That regulation also regulates the transport of oil derivatives and other areas that, according to their matter, need to be regulated by law. You ruled the regulations. You got through the Constitutional Court pack so you couldn't do it like that. However, one of those regulations is still in effect today. The purpose of these amendments is to draw attention. You can't put everything in the book. You can't put everything in the rule book. You can't put everything in the manual. You can't put everything in a recommendation. You know exactly what he can go to. As you set out, it is possible to transfer the customs tariff law to the customs tariffs regulation. It is also possible for you to transfer the questions of procedure, mode and conditions to the regulations, or I do not know in which other sublegal act. We only wanted to open the subject of these amendments – the sublegal act and the jurisdiction of the authority for the adoption of a sublegal act. That's all we wanted to open up, so that you can see that you don't have a criterion, not just in this law. This law is a consequence, and the reason is that in the Secretariat of Law they probably cannot deal with the visiting ministers who want to keep the whole area in the sublaw, in their hands and in their jurisdiction at all costs. That's what we wanted to draw your attention to these amendments. So, undermining, over-noding is a completely missed topic about these amendments. Once, the former SFRY was considered to be a principle that it was insane, that all areas of social life were regulated by laws and sublaws, in a way that should be done since the door was opened until after eight hours from that office. It is said that only what is forbidden should be inserted into the regulations. Do you know who criticized us? The European Community. Now look at the European Community system and this new European right and this new European science – for everything there is a standard for everything there is a norm, but they went below each level. For what? In each EU Member State, different authorities are responsible for the same thing. It is somewhere within the authority of the assembly, which is to pass the law, which is somewhere in the government's jurisdiction, which needs to be regulated by some act of its own, and somewhere within the authority of the ministers' recommendations. From country to country, we have a different normative jurisdiction of certain national authorities. This was just another warning to realize that there is not only a dialect between the words of the minister, the ministry, the government, but that there is some legal logic between what needs to be regulated by some sublaw. Not all matter is for sublaws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36529	Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36530	Thank you. From the presentation of colleagues Krasic and the amendments, the sayings of the amendments and the arguments arise, at least that is my conclusion, that counterpart Krasic considers this article to be both legally correct and comprehensive. The amendment by counterpart Krasic does not offer an alternative to such a solution as is normised in Article 57. This Article shall apply to closer terms and arrangements for the determination of customs value. The bill stipulates that the Government prescribes closer conditions and means of establishing the customs value of goods. You asked the amendment to add the words "The Government of the Republic of Serbia". That is the essence of your amendment. You have extended the subject in the debate on the amendment, and no one is slowing it down for you, the right to do so. You have not made a fundamentally different decision with the amendment than in the Customs Code proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36531	There's no basis for replication. It's all clear and there's nothing offensive. It's a subjective experience, I'm sorry, it's not objective. On Article 58, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36532	With the explanation of this amendment, just a brief reference to these previous amendments and to how much respect or disrespect is given to the profession, when it comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to terminology from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it must be borne in mind that it is talking about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it is understood that all the bodies regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will refer to the Republic of Serbia. We're talking about the Customs Code proposal here. What was legally-technically meant to be done is that when the government of the Republic of Serbia was first mentioned to write "Government of the Republic of Serbia", and in brackets – "in the rest of the text: Government". Then we'd know what it was about. So much for that. When it comes to Article 58, this member speaks of a border crossing, about entering goods into the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's regulated from the point of view of law. It is the subject of this law and it should be the subject of this law. It is indeed inappropriate to place a position 2, which we think should be deleted, because this position 2 says: "The design, construction and reconstruction of official premises at border crossings requires the agreement of the minister, with the previously obtained opinion of the Director of Customs Administration." This really isn't the place in this law. What has been regulated by Article 2(2) of the 58th should be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Urbanism. Border crossings, i.e. border crossings, must be set up in places envisioning a general urban plan and spatial plans. What these facilities will look like, an expert opinion should be given to a certain authorised architect or some projective house that deals with this. Of course it can't be done by the finance minister. Of course it can't be done by the Director of Customs. In addition to being convinced that Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are very smart, I say they can neither do this nor are in their jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36533	Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36534	We believe that the solution given by Article 58(2) remains in the text of the law, given that border crossings must meet certain standards, both architectural, ecological and all other standards. Therefore, it is not given here by the opinion of the 2nd exclusivity of the Minister that he designs, builds, reconstructs or gives consent to the Law on Planning and Construction. It is hereby authorised by the Minister to assess, with the prior opinion of the Director of Customs Administration, whether such a concrete project of the border crossing meets all the prescribed standards from the aspect of the performance of the customs duties. Of course, building such buildings cannot even be accessed until all the conditions laid down in the Law on Planning and Construction are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36535	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Verica Radeta, from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36536	I really don't know what's celibate or what's not celibate for the congregation majority or for the government of the Republic of Serbia, I'm speaking to the lawyer and colleague Ratkovic just confirmed what I said before and what is contained in our amendment. So if you're saying that for designing, building and reconstructing official premises at border crossings consent is given by the ministry, this ministry whose jurisdiction is customs, then I don't see how you can say that... Of course, someone else is going to design it, someone else is going to build it, not exactly the minister is going to take the mystery and build it, we didn't expect it, we didn't say it, but he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, you can't, you'll put it here in charge, but he's not professional and he can't be responsible for designing, he can't be responsible for construction, he can't be reconstructed. There are authorized persons who do this, there are supervisory authorities who do it, and all of it under the hat and paws of the ministry that deals with urbanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36537	Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) ` Members of the 107th Amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 128 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 128, but since they have two other amendments, almost tied, one behind the other, I would ask my colleague Ratkovic to comment a little bit, so that I may have more inspiration to explain these amendments. I am still holding that thread, and I suggest that the words "Republic of Serbia" should be added in Section 4, i.e. in the position of Article 128, following the words "Government", "Republic of Serbia". Comrade Ratkovic, you're saying it wouldn't be good, among other things, because we'd have one insane law. For one bill of law that has 310 members, you can't say that, if we just define precisely what government it is, several times, it would be an insane law. If you remember what was written in the draft Law on the National Assembly, and when I say what was written, I think that there was the largest number of provisions in the domain of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, then you will be absolutely sure, as I am, that it is not a misrepresentation, but only the need to specify which government gives specific instructions or brings certain acts. A dozen members are concerned that after the word "government", the words "Republic of Serbia" should be added. It is already explained from the order of the SRS Parliamentary Group that the Constitution (because the Constitution should clearly distinguish from any law, as the highest legal act) after the first mention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia stands in brackets – in the following text: Government. You didn't say that at any point in the bill, but you just kept explaining how it would be insane and how this is in accordance with the Constitution, which is absolutely not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36539	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36540	We're going back to the old topic. We thought that we resolved that the intention of these amendments was actually to talk about something else, not really justifying the need to put "Government" on each occasion the "Republic of Serbia". So it's not true that the Constitution says in the first article -- the government of the Republic of Serbia, and then -- in the following text: Government. That's just not true. At the same time, it does not stand for the fact that this is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is why the "Government" does not put the "Republic of Serbia", nor does the National Assembly always go along with the Republic of Serbia, because this is the law of the Republic of Serbia, and in many provisions here talk about customs space, the territory of the Republic of Serbia, etc. Thus, by analogy with the Constitution, every law is the law of the Republic of Serbia and the authority of the Republic of Serbia does not require that the "Republic of Serbia" be added to it. In addition, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the law, and hence, it is the law of the Republic of Serbia, and it is the government that has jurisdiction under the law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's just meant to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36541	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic to Article 137. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 138 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundjia, I don't know if I should read you article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but I won't, we'll skip it, it doesn't matter so much now, that I remind you of what it says in that article 1. The Constitution. Well, counterpart Krasic said, we can't believe it if certain things don't define themselves, because both Serbian citizens and we know who we're dealing with. Let me ask you a question now, because you like to settle with the MPs of the SRS, which is not bad at all, we get a better debate, so perhaps in the day to vote, fellow MPs who do not at this point feel that they should support certain amendments and vote for them. Let me ask you a simple question. You keep saying, when I say, I don't mean you personally, but your Democratic Party, that Kosovo and Metohija have nothing to do with European integration with the rest of Serbia. But when you fill out a questionnaire with three or four thousand questions, what are you going to say there, what is the surface area of the Republic of Serbia, how many inhabitants are there? Are you allowed to write what is true or are you going to do something else, or in a different way to give an answer? We want everything to be perfectly clear and defined, not because of us, we have long understood your intentions, they are perfectly clear to us, your fines are no longer going through with the citizens of Serbia; we just want to provoke you to tell them how and how and how and how you take care of the citizens of Serbia. Customs law has only come to us as a "lad to cake" to deepen these issues, which you must at times give a clear and precise answer and then your policy will be completely defeated and will not have support in Serbia, even in beautiful Krusevec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36543	The People's MP, Hope Kolundji, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36544	Since it is obvious that these amendments were not intended to amend the law, I can truly conclude that you consider this law to be good. The aim of the applicants of these amendments is to open up in parliament some other topics, which are not related to this law. According to our rules of procedure, it's not legitimate. We need to stick to the subject here and I think that all those who come out of that topic are in some way breaking the Rules of Procedure. I want to say, when you try, like many years ago, to politically abuse Kosovo and Metohija, then you have to know that the only consequence that can come out of it is the kind of trouble Serbia has experienced thanks to such a policy. Kosovo and Metohija for us are a matter of preserving sovereignty and state integrity. As far as we're concerned, the only starting point we unfortunately have to go with is Resolution 1244, and from that point on, we're starting at everything we're trying to achieve and repair in the fight to preserve territorial integrity. A better position, unfortunately, we don't. We used to. Someone else missed that chance. We have come to a difficult position, in which our ability to influence it is much less than it was before. I don't want to blame anyone. I don't want to talk about it, but I want to say that our European integration is the priority of the Serbian government policy that we have supported and chosen here, deeply convinced that it is the best interest of the citizens of Serbia. Maintaining territorial integrity and sovereignty is also a priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which we have chosen here and whose policy we continue to support. We believe that, in extremely difficult circumstances, this government in these fields achieves far better results than was expected, given where it started. We are also absolutely certain, when it comes to politics towards Kosovo and Metohija, that the policy that this government is now running is indeed the only possible one. Anyone who tries to bring that policy back to some time from the 1990s, when the results of that policy have been a waste, does not really want well for the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, but does not want the Republic of Serbia either. If it's an attempt to get a political point on that subject, then you have to face the fact that you're not crossing the censorship. Citizens understand that this is not a subject where cheap politicisation is allowed to collect political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36545	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36546	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, politicization and manipulation of Kosovo and Metohija is exactly what you're saying right now. I've said a hundred times about this pay phone, we really don't have a problem accepting the election will of the citizens, whatever it is. There's no need to repeat that from reporting to reporting, day to day. Politics is a process. We'll see what time will bring. Mrs. Kolundjia, do you know what manipulation is? To represent that both the EU and Kosovo and Metohija are priorities. Those two things are incompatible. You have to accept the fact – the moment you tell the citizens honestly what is essentially your priority, then we will see what the election will be like for your party. As long as you repeat the story that both are your priorities, and that essentially in the background are processes that deny it in a very specific way, you will be able to triumph, at least through the story. Now I ask you how is it possible for Serbia's priorities to be both European integration and Kosovo and Metohija when the EU institutions ask you not to accept Kosovo's independence, but tell you that you can't do anything that the integration processes of Kosovo institutions will challenge and disrupt? Explain it to us, it's still an insult to intelligence. No one's crazy, so I don't say anything harder. That means we'll do everything now. We are asked to build partnership and good regional relations, i.e. regional co-operation with institutions from Kosovo, and you assure us that both Kosovo and the EU are priorities. It's incompatible and it can't. At the beginning of today's discussion, I said nicely that we do not want to dispute in technical terms the essence of this law. Don't honor that, because we haven't said that for a moment. What we thought could and should change, we suggested. We can be malignancies, so let's say -- you know, there are two governments in Serbia today. You voted in this parliament that there are two governments in Serbia, you have the government of Vojvodina and the government of the Republic of Serbia. What kind of government does that apply to here? We can ask you that way, but we didn't go with that technique or those methods. I ask you simply – how is it possible for you to have the priority of talking to an institution that directly destroys your sovereignty, and the constitutional order to which you call and to which you swear? Those two things are incompatible. You have to give one up. The Serbian Radical Party makes it clear -- we are not for European integration until all those international standards applicable to Spain, Italy, Greece, Portugal or any other country that is present in the EU, which has similar problems to Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, are in force for Serbia. They are allowed under the auspices of the EU, but Serbia is not. We're different from you because we speak it openly, and you won't say it openly. Say it - the EU is our priority, and I don't know what at all. As we say we are ready to pay any price, but to preserve the constitutional order and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. So we ask, at the beginning we asked nicely – will this law be applicable in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, as it says here, because here it is defined what is the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the EU has a diametrically different position on the customs territory of this country than we do in the SRS, or declare that you are handling the Government today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36547	National MP Vlajko Senic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36548	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I would like to join in this debate on Kosovo and Metohija. I think some questions Mr. Stevanovic has asked and there are answers to these questions. Those answers were given in the May 2008 elections. For us in the ruling coalition, there is no dilemma that citizens in these elections practically voted on what is the government's priority for them that they want to see after the parliamentary elections. I would remind you that the elections held only a few months after Kosovo and Metohija unilaterally declared independence, that the ZES coalition clearly focused its electoral campaign on Serbia's European future and the European values of Serbia, that you were then unique, and some other coalitions and parties put some other things in focus and offered to the citizens. Citizens are at the most difficult moment, just months after Kosovo's declaration of independence, support in the elections gave us, relatively, not absolutely, so relatively that we could form a coalition that puts the European path of Serbia in the focus of its work, its activities, its engagement. It was then, it is so today, it will be so, while this government on these principles exists, and I am confident that it will be by the end of her term. I must say, there is no dilemma for us. If you ask me what our priority is, our priority is the European future of Serbia, but we are also convinced that Serbia's European future can be conquered and that by defending itself by taking care of what is in some way, you will recognise it yourself, inherited it, not only from you, it was inherited from governments that led the country from 2000 to 2007, when elections were held. We must all be realistic and responsible and accept the results, that is, the initial state that this government has faced. Is there EU pressure? There is, but there is one point where we can generally agree, which is that, as far as Serbia is concerned, Kosovo's independence will be legitimateized when we, as a government or all together as a Assembly, decide to recognise Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state, send an ambassador, establish diplomatic relations, etc. I am deeply convinced that if Serbia moves quickly towards the EU, I believe in NATO, that we could enter the EU without having to deal with this issue of Kosovo independence, Kosovo statehood at all, etc. If we go slowly to the EU, I am not sure that this topic will be on the agenda. But all that this government has done over the past two years assures us that we are going to the EU as quickly as possible and that we can, taking care that Serbia's European path is a priority, that we ensure Serbia's entry into the EU and that, in accordance with the opportunities available, we are fighting for Resolution 1244, which is a legal basis for us to fight a unilaterally declared decision on Kosovo's independence and Metohija. As it is now, I think it is maximum, taking care of what our foreign policy often says, and I believe that it will be in the future and that it is a central strategic priority for Serbia. So we stay on that course, confident that we have citizens' support. You will agree that there was no worse time to hold elections than in 2008, when citizens said they did – we accept everything, we understand everything, but we support a coalition that will fight for Serbia's European future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36549	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36550	Dear Presidents, those who are not well-intentioned towards the Republic of Serbia and according to its commitment to maintaining territorial integrity and at the same time to achieve its European objective, very often repeat that these two topics cannot be separated. When it comes from Serbia, when Serbia repeats that we need to combine these two topics at all costs, then we can justifiably say – but it is not in the interest of Serbian citizens. So it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia that we hold these two topics as separate topics and that we do not allow anyone in the world to bring these two topics together, conditioning us. We're very successful at keeping this story together, so I guess it's a mistake when you say that these topics should be connected, that it should be connected anyway, or that we should say ourselves that we're deciding on this or that. I think each of these positions is very harmful to the interests of Serbia and its citizens. What is important to us is that European integration is the political, security, economic, social interest of Serbian citizens. We are deeply convinced that Serbia outside the EU has an incomparably fewer chances of solving each of its problems, including the problems of territorial integrity. I wish in 2007... In 2001, Zoran Djindjic said that Serbia could join the EU in 2007 and that, in my opinion, it was indeed politically malicious from the point of view of the interest of Serbian citizens – what is your plan, where is 2007? I remind you that we are now in 2010. If we had achieved that goal at the time, if it hadn't been for the prime minister, who wanted to achieve this goal for Serbia, we would have talked in a different way today about territorial integrity both in Kosovo and Metohija, I am deeply convinced of that. The faster we go to the EU and the tighter we keep those two tracks apart, bringing neither ourselves nor others into a situation to condition us on any of these tracks... So what politics is is that we are asking that we are not conditioned on any of these tracks, or on a trackline of European integration or on a trackline of preservation of territorial integrity. As we run such a policy with all the capacities this country has, I believe our chances are higher. They're not big, they weren't big in 2000, but I believe they're bigger. That is why I think, without doubting any moment in the best interest of you being someone who is supporting that goal, however different in how we see the achievement of that goal, it is not good to hear from here the voices that try to place these two tracks in one way and thus bring Serbia into a situation where it is being blackmailed by making a decision that, I fear, can lose one and another goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36551	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. Mr. Stevanović, there's no reason for replication, you can within the time frame. They spoke to you, but there was nothing offensive and vague. There's really no basis for replication. With the utmost respect for your political views, but they have expressed their views. You have a word, but within your MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36552	Mrs. Kolundzija, unlike you, Mr. Senic showed only a little more courage and spoke a little more openly about the attitude that the government essentially has. Don't bring us and this story into context about the prime minister's murder. Zoran Djindjic was killed in the atmosphere you created in Serbia. You were the government, it wasn't us. Don't interrupt me, let me finish. You're the one who opened that topic. I don't want it to be related to the Serbian Radical Party in any way. Maybe you didn't have a bad intention, like I didn't want to at first, or at any point I was talking about the compatibility of stories. I'm saying you want to go to an institution that simply closes its eyes to the fact that Serbia will not accept Kosovo. Now you're trying to convince me that it needs to be separated. That's two different times. Leave yourself to your position, you want to join the EU, which does not want to accept Serbia with the borders you insist on. You will accept a society that imposes standards that you must respect as a member of that society. Sooner or later you'll have to accept it and admit it. Unlike you, we want to say it now. But you have no political interest or for politically pragmatic reasons to remain silent. Mr Senic, in 2008, Serbia's European path received a large number of votes, but it was also talked about Europe and Kosovo, on the one hand, but, on the other hand, an insufficient number of votes to form a government. Should I remind you what the Socialist Party of Serbia said in its May elections campaign in 2008? Did she speak and promote policies and values promoted by DS and G17 plus? Then again, European institutions got involved, from the Socialist International, to who knows what kind of political pressures, and made them enter the government with you. Mr. Senic, at the final SPS convention, they say, Ratko Mladic was a hero. It was for us then, it's for us now. Don't talk about the election success and triumph of European Serbia in 2008. It was political pressure and it was something completely different from what we have today. I just want, on behalf of the SRS, to say that you cannot promise citizens a European perspective with the integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Europe does not want Kosovo to remain in the membership of the Republic of Serbia, and you should accept that. If you already know, then gather your courage and tell the citizens. We don't mind standards. It is not Serbia's path to the EU this year because you have met the standards, but because it is the political will of the EU. They made a precedent. After Bulgaria and Romania, it was difficult to expect such political decisions to be made, such as decisions concerning Serbia, but they did. What we're going to pay for that, we just need to see that, we're going to get our bill out. Don't convince me, you know very well, as I do, as well as Mrs Nada Kolundzija, the standards in Serbia disqualify us to join the EU by 2017 - 2018. You know that well. What is disputed in Serbia today? Are European standards for working for five years and not paying his wages, taxes and contributions and that the state cannot show its mechanisms and force the person who owes it to pay the workers? What's the matter? Are these European practices and standards? Is that possible in Europe? Is it possible to pass the Law on Planning and Construction in Europe, and after that hundreds and thousands of illegally built buildings appear and that the state has no mechanism to stop it? These are not EU standards. You are not bringing into context what you have been doing for the last ten years, in terms of standards and our European, or your European and at all European path to Serbia. These two things are in deep disrepair, that is, the difference. Your path today is exclusively the political will of the European institutions and, I repeat, we will only get an account for it. As much as it is, I don't know, I don't want it to be the way I suppose it will be, but you can't keep Kosovo and Metohija and lead us to the EU, because the EU doesn't want to take us under its wing together with Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36553	Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36554	You're repeating something that no one in the EU has ever said before. I'm very concerned about what's being heard from here. We're used to the fact that the messages about how bad we are are always worse here than the messages we get from the world, and that's a good circumstance. They see us more objectively than our political opponents, who want to turn every black spot into total darkness in this country. Fortunately, citizens see it, and every time they go to the polls, they judge that darkness of reality against the reality that we inherited. If we're going to measure the depth of darkness that we entered in 2000, and the one you want to produce, and it's not really like that, then I think we're long ago on a sunny day compared to the darkness we came out of in 2000. You claim we can't fight for each other. I can take that as your political programme, because you don't want the EU, then you say – we don't need the EU, and the excuse is Kosovo and Metohija. You don't want to go to the EU. You consider the introduction of standards and acceptance of certain values contrary to what you represent as your policy, even if it was useful for the citizens of Serbia, but you stick to your policy and that is legitimate, I will not argue with it. If I'm talking about not meeting the standards here and it's just some kind of political will, and we're so ugly, dirty and evil that we don't deserve that Europe to look at us, I have to tell you that you're part of those standards that measure you too. If there's a negative score, part of those negatives go to you, too. Don't think you're innocent of it. If we want to build those standards, if we are doing everything in Serbia's capacity to build those standards, then even those who think that the road to Europe is not the interest of this country... Because then there will be much less room for demagogue politics, for a policy of vague goals, which is abstract, and citizens are nonexistent. When we come to the threshold of Europe, a citizen will be a measure of every policy, not some abstract idea, which we have been full of in a decade and whose price we have paid enormously high. If you think we should not go to the EU, it is your legitimate right, but what is not good is that you do not consider yourself at all responsible for the climate and the situation, not just today, but precisely for that climate and the situation in which Zoran Djindjic paid for his life. I don't think it's fair to amnesty to get out of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36555	MP Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36556	I think Mr. Stevanović and I got along just fine. I didn't say that we won absolutely and formed the government, because if that were the case, there would be no need to make a coalition with the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition. As far as the SPS is concerned, they'll give you an answer to the question of what kind of campaign they've been campaigning on, what they've been doing, what they've been saying. Personally, I want to give them credit for the decision they made. Were they under EU pressure, I don't know. If they were under some pressure here, I know it well, and it wasn't easy for them to make a decision, I know it too. I've always talked about this party openly about what I thought, but I want to say now that the decision they made then after the May elections, as far as I'm concerned, is good for Serbia. As for them, the political future will show them whether or not it is good for them. We respected the will of the citizens, and we will always respect the will of the citizens of Serbia, as it is in the elections. We are not in a situation yet, and I hope that if we work quickly we will not be in a situation where we ask citizens in the elections – do you want to join the EU, and that we must recognise Kosovo and Metohija or do you want to stay a black hole in the Balkans forever because we will not recognise Kosovo and Metohija, and unfortunately, we have come to a situation that is a condition for us to join the EU. I am finally telling you, this is not a condition for us to join the EU today and I hope that this will not be a condition even then, 2017 – 2018, when, I agree, it is a real deadline for Serbia, if it goes quickly, to enter the EU. I think we can all contribute together so that it's not a condition then. Perhaps you will then be in a position to make such a decision and I would not look forward to your position then. I think, regardless of the huge differences between us, there are some things we can do together. I believe that it would certainly suit both you and us to make the decision to join the EU by not being burdened with the subject of recognition, or non-recognition of Kosovo. I'm telling you, it's not like that right now, that there must be some cooperation. I don't mind. Anything that will help people living in Kosovo and Metohija to live better, if the price of that co-operation with some people who run power in Kosovo and Metohija, if the people on the ground are better, I have nothing against it. There is a point called the recognition of the independent state of Kosovo Metohija. That's not what we're gonna do, that's what nobody's asking us to do. But anything the state can do to make people live better... Will Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija live better than our nationalism here from the Serbian Parliament or will they live better than that if we can enable them to live better in everyday and real life? I believe that citizens support such a policy and that in the next election they will give. If they think what you're proposing is better, they'll give you support. But you should ask yourself, because it's part of the citizens who voted for you... Here, your colleagues are sitting here today, pushing for the EU. They've changed their minds, and that's it, it happens, it's normal things in life. So I believe that the government has the support of the citizens for the policy they are leading and that if we move quickly forward, we will not get into the situation that you are talking about, and if we come, then some government and some parliament will plead out in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36557	This was all within the time of the parliamentary group, and Mrs Kolundzija, and Mr Vlajko and Mr Dragan Stevanovic, to whom I give my word. (Dear Stevanovic, from the place: How much time do we have, I apologize? You have thirty minutes and five seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36558	Mr. Senic, just for a very short time, these changes that occurred after an attempt to crack the SRS have the least to do with ideological definitions or evolution, but that shouldn't be a matter of conversation. It doesn't matter at all. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I speak here as we see the path that the Government of the Republic of Serbia takes to Europe. It is unacceptable for us from the aspect of Kosovo and Metohija, but it has nothing to do with standards. The abstraction is what Mrs. Kolundji said, it's an abstraction, it's a story for a pamphlet in a pre-election campaign, but when you turn around and get out of this building, you immediately trip about everyday life. Go to the Clinical Center today, as an ordinary citizen from Surdulica, not as head of a parliamentary group in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and you will see how you will go. Are those European standards? Go to court today as an ordinary citizen. Well, this is where we went crazy talking, accusing each other of what's going to happen to the judicial reform that you're voting for. Today, a man from Bosilegrad, to verify a life support contract, I'll be free to say, should have a monkey to do it, 200 kilometers should pass, so whether he finds someone or not! You did it on behalf of European standards. But it's life. It's life, what you meet on the street every day, on the tracks, Mr. Senic, in the Vranjska Zamber, in the Shop. Not to show you the parameters under which criteria social assistance is shared in southern Serbia (I will show you later) to see who can win, again on behalf of the European perspective and the European future of Serbia. Commend yourself to investments in 2008 and 2009. We can't brag. The European institutions qualify us to be at the bottom, Malten. We didn't create pre-conditions. Business environment isn't what it's supposed to be. Do you know why? Because the chaos creators sat in the bathroom for five days and defined our way to tomorrow. Those who run Serbia. I don't mean, of course, Mrs Dragutinovic or any other government official. You know very well who I mean. Let's just say, I mean the owner of a company that owes 150,000 workers, has a court executive solution and won't pay for it. He just won't, don't care! He won't, he doesn't care, he won't pay. The ministry of trade and services to a local public company twice writes a solution and asks for the return of utility prices, and citizens have been disbursed for 20 million dinars on the continuum of these municipal services. He won't. You know what they say? They're not competent to control the prices, that's what municipal inspections do. It is a state, it is a reality in which we live and it has nothing to do with the European way. This is life, and what we're talking about from the Democratic Party, it's abstraction. No one is against Serbia moving forward and introducing order, at least to me in the Serbian Radical Party. We can't put ourselves in the same plane when it comes to responsibility. When power is to be taken and the government is to be formed, then everything is allowed, and when we feel the consequences of political rape and government formation, from local to state, in the atmosphere of political rape, then we will all share responsibility, then we too are to blame. It can't do that. That's where we differ. Once again, the European Union, whose membership you wish to join, will not give you support to preserve Kosovo within the constitutional order and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. I agree that there are Serbs living down there and that they need help in every way, but I remind you that down there is our property, our deed, our church and everything that has been created over the centuries and years. It's ours, it belongs to us, and no one can deny it to us and take it from us. Unfortunately, the European Union, where you're taking us, has no right to such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36559	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 144. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we always (I'm sorry that Mrs. Kolundji is not there, but it's not that important for the time it takes to explain this amendment) the amendments are submitted in order to correct the text of the law. Now, whether the amendments are addressed to fundamental changes, whether to legal-technically, it doesn't matter that much. This is the best way to open up some mysterious questions. Why are you gentlemen afraid of the words of Serbia? In two amendments, one behind the other, I said that after the word "Government", we would insert the words "Republic of Serbia". Then came countless polemics, replicas, and some political stories. I don't know if counterpart Vlatko Ratkovic is there now, he explained that the insertion of the word "Republic of Serbia" after the word "Government" makes no sense, it is unnecessary, it will be too much. When I receive an invitation or material for a session of the Assembly here, it writes my name as a National MP and says, "The People's MP in the National Assembly and the Republic of Serbia." If that's insane, what are you putting it for? Let's start with this, let's show all our practicality here. Gentlemen, you're traveling on two tracks. You ride with two vehicles; one is when you are outside Serbia, and one is in Serbia. Comrade Senić, it seems to me that you are ready to say to the NATO Pact and to those from the EU – don't just ask us to recognise Kosovo and Metohija, and you do whatever you want, just don't ask us, we can't do it because of those citizens. Now, let me tell you what we do first. For us, the territorial integrity and integrity of the state always comes first, for us in the Serbian Radical Party. For what? We assume that, in part, the standard of living can be improved by the will of one man, by activities, by his perseverance, by his skills, by knowledge and by all that is related to the characteristics of one person. The territorial integrity and integrity of a single state can only be carried out by the government, this Parliament, although we have some more statesmen, could therefore, citizens and go to elections. As a result, they also give some political parties confidence. We fight for the standard of citizens, but all of us. On this case, since this is customs law, I will show how only when the elections are held, whether here or in Republika Srpska, you invite the guests of the prime minister of Republika Srpska, so take a picture with him and say – we have now improved relations, and the best example (collars, is that right) is that in the length of about 200 kilometers on the Drina River we do not have road crossings, but we have only traffic crossings. Do you know what this is about, fellow Senic? Because interstate commissions don't work together the best way. I am not saying that the commission of the Republic of Serbia does not want to fix its citizens, Serbs and other citizens of Serbia, on the one hand and on the other, Drina, but the Sarajevo authorities probably want something else. They do not allow the population associated with Srebrenica, Bratunac, Zvornik, Visegrad to be integrated in one more quality way with Serbian citizens. That's why there's no crossing. We opened that question a few days ago, when Mr. Dacic was here, but not as a police minister, but as the first deputy prime minister. You of such things, of specific things, run away. One more thing, don't ever worry about the censorship of the Serbian Radical Party. These people who are here and those across Serbia support politics and ideologies of the SRS will not change the political party, regardless of the censorship. Somehow today it was said by several of you who when you feel that the political parties you currently belong to will not pass that censorship, you find shelter in another political party. We are here for the implementation of the programme, because of the needs of Serbian citizens, to allow them to live a better life, and not because of that, we are not burdened with any censorship. We have always respected the will of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36561	On Article 146, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 148 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 158 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 168 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 169 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 173 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 175 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 188 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 188 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 201 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 208 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 216 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gordan Rajkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, on Article 216 of the amendment, were submitted by the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic to Article 219. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 225 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 227 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 236 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 236 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 260 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic, who wants a word. Here you go. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here again are the questions where the legislators of this law are ashamed to say – the Republic of Serbia. I asked the amendment to be in article 260. The bill behind the word "Government" states "Republic of Serbia". You should proudly attribute it, it's not excess, and it clearly outlines your definition that you are for the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Sreto Peric said that in an explanation you would say that there would be too many words. Remember how many billings you've brought here with a bunch of words that don't mean anything, and thanks to your 126, you've passed those laws, so after a month, two, three of you have been making proposals to amend and supplement those laws. I believe that this amendment should also be adopted wherever the "Government" of the "Government" stands everywhere in this law and in all future laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36563	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36564	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, we have heard an interesting exhibit here. I really don't see a desire here to fix the law, because the law is one functional and reasonable act and the law isn't enough just the will of the state, and the will of the people is needed. I think that in this exact law, crystal clear, it is clear that the law applies to the Republic of Serbia. This amendment, as well as previous amendments, is not intended to improve the quality of the law, but to correct the ratings of those parties that have come into existence. We were rested here to fear the words of Serbia. I love Serbia, but love for Serbia is not proven by drilling into the chest and I keep repeating – I love Serbia. Love for Serbia is proven by doing so in the interest of the Serbian state. Should anyone be afraid of Serbia today? Serbia should neither be afraid of those living in Serbia nor those living in its environment. Serbia should be respected and truly loved. Do any of us feel the word fear when the word Serbia is mentioned? What's fear anyway? As a man who was in the Resistance, I know very well what fear is. Fear is what I see in the eyes of our political opponents, who are unable to cross the census when Boris Tadic says elections will only be held in 2012. Someone who doesn't cross the census in 2010, is certainly in fear of censorship in 2012. But I'm really not afraid of Serbia, nor of the law, nor of the law. I'm undermining, who doesn't want to listen to the law, let him look at books used as textbooks at law school. Professor Ljubomir Jovic wrote "Parliamentary Procedural Law". It says here – the law is a functional and reasonable act. Slobodan Jovanovic, our great, prominent lawyer, also says – the law is not enough for the state, the will of the people is also needed. We have the will for both citizens and the state and the Republic of Serbia to pass this law and to implement it in practice, to be a living law, not to be a dead letter on paper. Every excessive legal norm burdens this law, but does not talk about trying to fix the law, talks about a failed and failed attempt to fix the rating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36565	On Article 268, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. There's no basis for replication. No offense, there's nothing unclear, but if you want, can you from the time of the parliamentary group, or do you want to explain the amendment to Article 268?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36566	The same explanation as for Amendment 266 because it is the same. I asked for an amendment to add the words "Republic of Serbia" in addition to the words "Government". To use this time to explain some misunderstandings to the gentleman who criticized my amendment. Mr. Milivojevic, we Serbian radicals love the country, according to Serbia, we prove, we have proven and we will always prove. Dr Vojislav Seselj's love for Serbia proves in The Hague. Many of us here have proven love for Serbia with weapons in our hands during the bombing, when your friends bombed us. I, many of us, have proven, someone with a gun in their hand, someone in civil protection, and you, Mr. Milivojevic, have proven your love for Serbia by dividing the locators in Kruševec. Let me remind you, that's when the military police arrested you and then you suffered a lot, but it seems to me you didn't come to your senses and that was a little bit too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36567	I would only ask that we do not use the qualifications “you have not changed your mind”. Please don't. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36568	I'm using the time of the ZES Parliamentary Group, and it's, in accordance with the number of MPs, quite large. Your number of MPs is not as much as the number of MEPs, so your time is not so much, and after Negota, your time is even shorter. Let's do a little bit, as a graduate farm engineer for livestock, do law and law science and not replicate, but say what I mean. Professor Ljubomir Jovic in "Parliamentary Procedural Law" says, "The legislator should be written, fair and fair," but this is also expected from those who criticise the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36569	The 287th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic to Article 288. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 289 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 292 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36570	Ladies and gentlemen, there was a controversy here just now, and it referred to Article 138, or amendment to that member, and that is certainly good, and that is the way of parliamentary work. It's only a shame we have to ask the chairman any minute now how much time we have left. For such and even for the polemics in parliament... (President: 20 minutes. Thanks, I didn't ask. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, obviously you didn't follow what I was saying. So I wanted to say and repeat that it would be good for the MPs to be able to talk about all topics and to speak with unlimited time. It was an observation, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Why is Article 138 mentioned? Because we obviously don't listen here. Mrs. Kolundzhija said, it has been quite a while since, but I must first of all, for the sake of the public and for the record, to draw attention, that I, in the light of the amendment to Article 58, explained that in Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia writes -- the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, in the text, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the following text: Government. That's just not true. I was saying that the text in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Customs Law cannot be compared because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is now called the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is only an obligation that the Customs Law, like all laws, be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We are also distracted by colleagues from the ruling coalition that we are opening new topics and that is why we are writing amendments, to open new topics. We Serbian radicals believe that all topics are for parliament and that all themes of social life should be discussed right here. Those who shift us to open new topics came suddenly on the subject of crossing or non-census. I have to say we don't worry about whether or not we're going to cross the census. We speak from here to the citizens of Serbia, and that's true. We are confident that, among other things, we will convince the citizens of Serbia that the SRS, the programme and the policy of the SRS, is the only option for Serbia's survival and for the better life of citizens in Serbia. I have to say, I'm a little worried about all of you who, in the previous local elections, were way above the censorship. Last night, on a show, I hear you had a fight over about 50m euros, Stanko Subotic Cane, Miskovic, Beko. I'm afraid there won't be any more money – I mean all those who financed these so-called so-called. Businessmen – wearing yellow packages, buying mobile phones, sunglasses, stoves, umbrellas, plasma televisions etc. They know the citizens who were getting those gifts from whom they were getting them. I'm afraid you won't have that money for an A.R. if you don't find a new financier. A colleague, Vlajko Senic, said something I must comment on. I was under the impression that counterpart Senic was thinking the same thing as Serbian Radical Party MPs. You were talking about the May elections in 2008. First of all, I think that you, too, fellow Senic, do not believe that one single citizen of Serbia voted in those May elections in 2008 for the same government to be, say, PUPS and G 17. Okay, I'm not going back to who formed the government, what the influence of the tycoon was at that time on the formation of government, what Western powers, etc. I want to say something else. You mentioned, Mr. Senic, some who don't think like the SRS anymore. We're not interested in them. The fact that they changed their minds, we don't care. In your discussion, I recognized that you too recognized that 32% of Serbian citizens voted in favour of the SRS programme and ideology in May 2008 and that all the mandates that the Serbian Radical Party then won in the elections still belong to the SRS. Those who changed their minds could share their mandates with you, because they came close to you. Another remark, related to Mrs Nada Kolundzhija's remarks, which she said, and I am surprised that you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, did not notice, that the SRS MPs, explaining their amendments, are not well-intentioned towards the Republic of Serbia. That's a serious accusation. We can conflict with the programme and the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and allow us to make an objection to our amendments and our party and ideological programme, but to say that we are unwarranted to the Republic of Serbia is an insult. Since you did not consider it an insult, I will now say what we Serbian radicals think is not well-intentioned towards the Republic of Serbia. We claim that this is who brought EULEX to Kosovo and Metohija, that it is not well-intentioned towards the Republic of Serbia who accepted the SAA, where the fake state of Kosovo is one of the signatories. We believe that it is not well-intentioned towards the Republic of Serbia that gives tens of thousands of cancellations per month to the citizens of Serbia; that it is not well-intentioned who deceives Serbian citizens in election campaigns by making false promises, and after these promises there is nothing. It is not well-intentioned towards the Republic of Serbia, one who unfeelingly owes Serbian citizens and who is certainly leading us into debt slavery. Not well-intentioned towards the Republic of Serbia, whoever is ready to withdraw the warrant against Ejup Ganic, we heard him two nights ago. He is not well-intentioned towards the Republic of Serbia, nor is he who prepares the resolution on Srebrenica, etc. I don't think I have to point out, but it's obvious who should be recognized in what I just said. Or should I say it's the Democratic Party and its satellites? It's clear, my colleague, Perich. As far as amendments to Article 292 are concerned, he is in the section relating to the criminal policy provided for by this law. In particular, Article 292 refers to penalties for a responsible person: if the goods are imported or exported outside the border crossing; if the goods are excluded under customs supervision; if they do not report goods at the border crossing; if they do not enter all the goods in the declaration; if they do not report the goods they import from the free zone into the rest of the customs territory. For all of these offences, a legal person or a person who does so directly shall be fined by a fine from one to four times the value of the goods. You have provided in Article 290(2) that the person responsible for the same offences should be punished by a fine of 5,000 dinars to 25,000 dinars. We in the Serbian Radical Party think this is really funny. This is a mockery. Why do you need the law, Mrs. Dragutinović, if you're going to punish someone with a fine of 5,000 dinars? This law and these criminal provisions stimulate smuggling. That's why we think it was necessary for these fines to increase to 15,000 to 150,000 dinars, perhaps even more than that, but we wanted to suggest something that you could possibly accept and that is in line with the Law of Infractions. I'd like you, Mrs Dragutinovic, to listen to us and say why you didn't accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36571	The amendment was submitted to Article 293 by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36572	Article 293 is in the section – criminal provisions. In the view of the SRS, Article 293 is too mild for criminal provisions, as is the case with this member. It's interesting why the government didn't accept the amendment. You say: “Amendment is not accepted for reasons why the level of punishment could be inappropriately high in relation to the offence committed and the amount of punishment prescribed in paragraph 1 of this Article, in cases where it is the amount of taxes. The amount of penalties in the specific case, taking into account the severity of the infringements and the prescribed range of fines referred to in Article 35. The law on violations is appropriate to a prescribed violation. “ In this case, ladies and gentlemen and Mrs. Minister, it refers to offences for a responsible person if the goods are imported or exported outside the border crossing, for the exemption of goods under customs supervision, unless the goods are registered at the border crossing, unless all the goods are entered in the declaration, unless the goods imported from the free zone are registered in the rest of the customs territory. Is it possible that you consider this a minor offense? Please, Mrs Dragutinović, either come out or listen to the MPs. Is it possible that you consider this an easier offense? This, Mrs Dragutinovic, is also called smuggling because of the state's irresponsibility and because of insufficient or poorly organised customs service today we have a tobacco mafia, a drug mob. Should I say it's Stanko Saturday Cane, that it's the Charic brothers? Therefore, if it had been taken into account in the competent services and were to follow their work and smuggling tobacco, i.e. tobacco products and drug trafficking, we would not have come to the situation in which we are today, because we would not have come to the situation where authorities in front of the nose escape and Stanko Subotić Cane and the Saric brothers and some of them there in Rica meet with some who are not on the chase, they are available to the authorities, but cane and Saric have both escaped without access to the competent authorities. In this law, so announced, which has been so much talked about, how well it will bring customs legislation, you predict for smuggling (because this is smuggling, what is provided for in Article 293, Mrs Dragutinovic) a fine of 5,000 to 25,000 dinars. Imagine how scared someone who deals with such dangerous things, even less dangerous, will be when you tell him he has to pay a fine of 5,000 dinars! So it's inappropriate and that's why I just warned you and asked you to listen to us, to draw attention to you so that you could accept these amendments, yes, as much as possible under the Law of Infractions, we increase these penalties. You're not a good heart, I don't mean you personally, Mrs Dragutinovic, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you weren't a soft heart when you increased administrative fees here, court fees, what every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has to pay for this or that reason, but when protecting potential smugglers, then you're inclined to say it would be inappropriate to increase the fine that you predicted, and it's from 5,000 to 25,000 dinars. So, please, or I ask my fellow Members to vote on these amendments in the voting day, they are indeed well-intentioned. We thus show that we want and that we are ready to fight corruption, crime, smuggling and all known and unknown mafias in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36573	The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to Article 294. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36574	Thank you. This amendment is actually just a continuation of this matter concerning criminal policy in this bill. I must conclude that it is rather unclear for me, because the Government, or the Proposer of such a legal solution, did not accept the argument made on behalf of the previous amendments and the one which I submitted on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, which concerns some infringements, i.e. the amount of penalties imposed on a responsible person within the framework of a legal person for infringements of the type: the submission to the customs authority of documentation containing incorrect data and provided that such an act implies or may imply the release from the payment of import duties; the non-transmission of documents; the non-transmission of information necessary to the customs authority; the failure to enter into the declaration of all goods data and so on. It simply retains the solution contained in the bill, which is that the responsible person is punished with a fine of 5,000 to 25,000 dinars. We in the Serbian Radical Party have always considered in principle the current economic situation we are in, but when it comes to the introduction of order, responsibility, respect for some standards and laws, we feel it is necessary to change the intended fines. Infringements that could be committed, violations that individuals in this case could harm the state, or budget, may not be as proportionate as what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done, for example, by accepting, or unilaterally applying the Trade Agreement, but I believe that this is indeed one step that should contribute to the introduction of order and responsibility for some of the actions that appear. Indeed, it is inappropriate – if we know how we are going, to charge the budget more and more with various fees, penalties, etc. – that, in the light of the non-acceptance of the amendment, the words "unsuitably high in relation to the offence committed", means, the amount of punishment we have proposed, and I will say that it is the amount of between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars. If this isn't accepted either, the question is, where does this go next? The budget, as I said, is full of taxes and fines alone; the budget deficit in some future period will not be able to fill the loans, so I really think that the whole situation, or that this is all leading to a pretty big problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36575	Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's People's Parliament, the debate has ended in details of the Customs Act and it has, as always, been open. My personal impression is that this time there wasn't that ferocity in the debate, perhaps because of the technical nature of the law. In any case, I would like to thank a large number of Members for their professional support, but also for the questions raised that have no direct connection to this law. I would take this opportunity to stress that the real purpose of this law is to standardise procedures, simplify customs procedures and procedures, and thus reduce external trade costs. However, when it comes to the conduct of proceedings against goods, it is necessary, in addition to this law, to apply other regulations. The customs authority must cooperate with other authorities as well. Finally, it must use not only information technology, but other documentation at its disposal. The largest number of amendments referred to definitions, terms, some superfluous words, or to the addition of certain words. Someone said that such amendments are more technical than essential. For me and the government, the most important thing was that the formulations don't cause any doubt. The amendment to Article 5 was interesting when it was considered "from the states" to be too high. I would just remind the MPs that the customs territory could expand and the customs union would be formed, and I would not call these words with too many words. About forty amendments were related to the addition of the word "Republic of Serbia". So, after the word "Government", the words "Republic of Serbia" are added. Some things are understood, and somewhere there is a foothold for this very Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Someone said it wouldn't get lost. It would probably come from the size of the law, but it wouldn't come from the accuracy and quality of the law itself. Some proposed amendments were contrary to the ATA and the TIR Convention, therefore, would prevent the application of the Convention on Transport of Goods in Road Transport, as well as the Convention on Facilitation in Temporary Import. Therefore, transit goods would simply bypass Serbia and therefore such an amendment could not be accepted. Some amendments were not in line with the Customs Tariff, some with internationally accepted standards, because, for example, it cannot be accepted that the customs authority in all cases of the determination of the value of the goods requires the submission of all documents. Finally, the three amendments referred to the level of punishment. Greater punishments are required. I can say that somewhere prescribed penalties are in line with the Law on Violations, however, the very bill provides for a strict criminal policy for perpetrators of the offence, as penalties for the most serious offences are always determined on the basis of the value of the goods. In relation to the responsible persons, punishments are somewhat milder, but in accordance with the Law on Violations. I thank you again for your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36577	Mrs. Verica Radeta answered. What's the base of the call?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36578	Obviously, I'm not well understood by the minister when it comes to these criminal provisions. I'll do two sentences, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36579	This is what you're going to have to do outside of this procedure, it's just the closing statement given by the Minister, so I can't give you my word right now, but you know that there's a merger debate, that you have nine more minutes of general time, and you can use it under the next law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36580	The minister can say that I don't know what the law says about violations, and I can't say that she doesn't know what it says in that law?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36581	You don't have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36582	Thank you, I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36583	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Taxation Law on Pre-Employment (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Nenad Popović, Arsen Đurić, Dragan Stevanović, Mladen Grujic and Vladan Jeremic and the amendment of the Finance Committee. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Finance and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Before moving to the search in particular, I remind you that MP Susana Grubjesic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 10 and that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure, rejected as an untimely amendment by MP Vladan Batic to members 10th and 21st, and the rejected amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 9th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Vlajko Senić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36584	Dear Presidents, respected members, I will only briefly, as an authorised representative of the Committee on Finance, thank the members of the Committee and the chairman of the Committee Mr Krasic for making the agreement and for allowing the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia to submit an amendment that will recognise that instead of the former 1.5% of businesses are able to record 3.5% as cultural expenditure. I think it's on the Ministry of Culture's initiative, but it's much more important than all of this that this amendment gets the support of the republican assembly, because at this point, when the essential country is in crisis and when the budgets are quite limited, it's an important potential source for financing culture in Serbia. I'm saying, I'm just reporting as an authorised representative to thank the members of the Committee for allowing this amendment to be submitted and to regulate these issues in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36585	Thank you, Mr. Senic. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 10th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36586	Dear Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DSS Group, we have submitted an amendment to Article 10, which we have proposed to amend Article 2 and to read: "Advertising and propaganda issues are recognised as expenditure of up to 5% of the total income or up to 10% of the total revenue generated from the export of goods in the tax period, if that is more favourable for the taxpayer". We have proposed this amendment to increase the share of advertising and propaganda expenditure that are recognised as expenditure for greater support for export-oriented legal entities. We are aware of the fact that we have extremely modest results when it comes to export economy, we know what our external trade deficit is and that is why we have proposed this amendment. If it is more favourable for economic operators, given that marketing costs on foreign markets are far higher than ours, we think this amendment should be accepted because, I say, we have a very modest export economy and I think this would be a significant incentive for them. I urge you once again to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36587	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 10. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36588	We have also submitted an amendment to Article 11 so that a new position is added in Article 11, which reads: "The burden of expenditure is recognised to write down the value of individual claims which are less than 100,000 dinars of all legal entities, except public enterprises, without the necessity of the taxpayer providing evidence of the failure to collect claims by court." I think this amount of 100,000 dinars we've proposed is extremely modest and this amendment should be accepted. Since legal costs, legal services and court fees are very often higher than the amount of the claim, it is very difficult for legal persons and entities to deliver evidence of the failure to collect these claims, so we have limited that amount to 100,000 dinars. I think we should accept that, with this amendment exempting public enterprises, so we don't get into a situation where public companies write off debts to 100,000 dinars, because it would be a burden on citizens, businesses and those who regularly settle their obligations. I think this is also a request of the economy and I urge you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36589	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Mladen Grujic and joint MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Milan Lapcevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36590	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, on Article 22, we have submitted an amendment to delete this member. The reason for this is this: the need to beat capital loss by capital gains, as a form of incentives for companies to cope with the current crisis, is much more pronounced today than in previous years, given that all indicators of business performance in the earlier period were much more pronounced than they were today. We believe that the reduction of capital loss beatings at the expense of future capital gains for five years is an inappropriate fiscal measure, as many companies in years of crisis will accumulate losses, not by their guilt or guilt of management, but primarily due to the decline of demand, state investment and in general to the global economic crisis. The adoption of this amendment would allow businesses that again achieve a positive business to save their lives in this way to invest and create new jobs, which is a much more significant goal than the short-term budgeting of the state. We think that this amendment makes sense and that it should be accepted for the simple reason that the obligation of the state is that, in all possible ways, especially through legislative activity, it helps most those who are the main chargers of the state budget, which is primarily business. In the years marked by the global economic crisis in Serbia, we are witnessing that the economic downturn is significant and that many firms are in a blockade, that there are almost no investments or there are very small volumes, which also directly reflects the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but also reflected drastically on the population standard. In every normal country, legislative activity should be focused primarily on reducing the internal contradictions that exist in one country. These laws in the field of tax policy must be such that they reduce these contradictions, i.e. to encourage the most successful ones and which are, in the largest extent, the full budget of a single country. In this regard, we expected that the Company Tax Act would have a number of measures that would have a greater impact on such illogicalities and economic differences in the development of certain parts of Serbia, i.e. on reducing time. Unfortunately, as in the Regional Development Act, we have not received any concrete measure or we have very symbolic measures that will encourage those who invest in underdeveloped areas, so today there is a completely dreary picture in Serbia on the side of the poor, who primarily live on the territory of southeastern Serbia and municipalities where the average income of between 13,000 and 15,000, such as Kursumlia, Bela Palanca, Vlasotina, Blaca and other municipalities in which the number of pensioners and unemployed is far greater than those employed, mainly in some state institutions, which is an obvious indicator of drastic poverty. On the other hand, in parts that are most developed, primarily in the capital and its environment (for the last two or three years almost 80% of the investment in this country was precisely on this territory), data on the number of employees, the number of unemployed persons are dramatically better; and up to four times higher incomes in Belgrade and the environment than in the most underdeveloped parts of Serbia. This directly implies that more than 50,000 people move into this part of Serbia, i.e. the capital and its environment, every year, and as much or even more moved out of the most vulnerable parts of Serbia, I am primarily referring to southeastern Serbia. The government, through its legal proposals, had to encourage investment in the most underdeveloped areas, if it wanted to prevent this negative flow that hit Serbia, primarily through tax laws, because it is a way for people to work there. When you have an investment in an underdeveloped area, if people work, then they'll live there. As a result of such a situation, the search for a job and economic migration, which completely changes Serbia's demographic picture. We expected that in this law there would be much more concrete measures of incentives, i.e. cuts in profit tax or total suspension for the most underdeveloped areas, and that the scale of profit tax would be slippery compared to the degree of development of a particular area. In one country, it is not normal for the same profit tax rate to be in a city that has barely 6% (for Serbia it is barely 6%) of the unemployed, where the average income is over 50,000 dinars, and in the most underdeveloped area, where you have the highest number of unemployed and where the average income is about 15,000 dinars. Also, with other incentive measures, the Government can, through its regulations and regulations, make more significant incentives from the state budget of investment in certain areas, particularly underdeveloped areas, so that, for example, the additions to the creation of a new job in the most underdeveloped area would be proportionally higher than those where these investments have the most, where development parameters are far more favourable. Each state should, above all, be the service of its citizens, or state authorities should be the service of citizens, to enable them to exercise their rights in the most effective way. Is that how it works? Of course not. You've got cases like this on your hands. A little while ago, the completed customs law, I hope, will change that practice, which in the previous period proved to be very bad, but here's one example of how the state authorities, how state bureaucracy harassed their citizens. A private forwarding entrepreneur was blocked by customs a while ago, on the basis of a suspicion the customs office expressed that a certain commodity that was decorated by the private entrepreneur had not come out of the country. She's blocked the company, removed almost a million dinars from her account, to the astonishment of the people who deal with it. Based on the evidence submitted from the customs stations where the goods came out, customs has unblocked the bill, but has not returned the money she took off the account; she has instructed the company to sue the state, or to sue customs and to return the money in court proceedings. Of course, since our courts are so efficient, the company has been in complete ruin for three years, it can't get its money back, it can't go on. It's one of the drastic examples of how the state can completely destroy, above all, those of which it lives. The second example also refers to the harassment of people dealing with business by the state. In October of last year, an entrepreneur from Nis came a warning that he was paying contributions to health and social security that he had not paid in the previous months. The man immediately after receiving the notice paid all the back debts, and paid advances by the end of the year everything he needed to settle for himself and for his workers. At the end of the year, the reference officer who ran the company changed, and at the beginning of this year, a man was given a solution to pay all debts within three days or he would be blocked. He immediately went to the IRS the next day with evidence that he had paid in advance, with statements that it was removed from his account and was paid to the IRS, and they instructed him not to be blocked, but therefore he has to write a complaint to the tax authority and pay a fee of 15,000 for it. Here, you see how the state can harass its citizens, i.e. taxpayers, and how it destimulates those who need to practice and earn income in their own country. Another way the state, or tax authorities, without having to harass its citizens, is just the current, due yesterday to apply for income tax. All citizens who have received about 1.500,000 dinars should report, in very complicated forms, all their receipts, to fill in the extensive data; if they do not, the Tax Administration will file criminal charges. Based on what data does the IRS do this? Based on that data he's got. In translation, this means that tax authorities have data on each citizen based on the home number and all its incomes. Why, then, if they already have information about these same citizens, don't issue an automatic tax liability solution, to pay people, not to harass them, to fill out tax returns, to wait in line, to waste their time, to have workers there without need be harassed by the same citizens because they are angry while waiting in line, and then to force red tape to review and then send a notice of whether someone is subject to a tax obligation or not? Is that a normal procedure for a normal state? I don't think so. I think that the Ministry of Finance, that the government in general serves precisely to organise a state bureaucracy, not to harass its citizens, but to pass such laws and procedures that will in the most efficient way organise the life of a state and enable every citizen of it, who, by their taxes, supports that state, this bureaucracy, to do so in the most efficient way, without wasting time and without harassing it. This is how state bureaucracy is above citizens. One of the classic examples is so-called. National public service. All citizens of this country, under the law passed by the Assembly, are obliged to pay RTS. Every family in this country separates 434 dinars for a television subscription. In return, it gets "objective information" about public life, it needs to get a quality scientific, educational, cultural programme, which other commercial TV stations have no obligation to broadcast. In my opinion, it's absolutely normal and there are such examples everywhere in the world. What do we have from these 434 dinars, what do we single out every month? In addition to what's called "objective information", we have a very scarce cultural and educational programme, scientific not to mention it, but therefore we have every hour to inform citizens that another hour, another half hour, another ten minutes, is a bidding for the prize game – bid for "full" from Kragujevac. So we finance a national service to force us to gamble with the state and to lose money by texting. Is that normal? Is it normal for national services, which support all citizens of Serbia, to force their citizens to deal with the cube? It's in the translation of the cube. I think one responsible authority of all these contradictions, and there's too many of them, like the famous advance VAT payment story, for every entrepreneur, should be eliminated as soon as possible. Last year, we submitted a proposal to amend the Value Added Tax Act, which would pay the tax when the transaction was executed, not when it was invoiced. In times of economic crisis, when the only employer of the state is to force the companies that work for the state to, as soon as they put out the invoice to a particular ministry, for example for the NIP, the Ministry of Education or any other, for the works done, and those companies had to be in charge of the banks, to pay the people in advance, to pay the goods, to pay the VAT at the same time to that same state, and then to collect their claims for a few months, given that the state is so liquid that our payments are two, three, five, six months, and longer... Of course, whoever has these claims, and in a few months and on the basis of a course, loses a certain value, has no right to sue that same country for interest or to demand interest from the same state on the basis of his loss of his claim and on the basis of his payment to the interest banks, since he had to take credit. These are things that are not good in this country and that is why you, Madam Minister, another note and suggestion – such things, which are pure life practice, through laws and through regulations, you have to change, in order to get a country where citizens will not be bullied by their state bureaucracy they support, but they will be the real service of these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36591	Thank you. I'm setting a break by 3:10 p.m. I'd like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 85, we will be working after 1800 hours at the point at which we are at that time. Thank you. [[After break – 15/15]] We're continuing our work. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36593	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is one, if I may say so, technical amendment. In essence, nothing is changed in the draft laws to amend and supplement the Company Tax Act. The SRS parliamentary group has provided that Article 29 paragraph 1 changes and reads – Article 38 paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows: "The business year is a calendar year, except in case of termination or commencement of activity in the course of the year, the status changes of the legal person, the initiation of bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings. “ We believe that, in relation to what is proposed in this proposal, the amendment and addition of the Company Tax Act is such an amendment from this legal and technical side more clearly and accurately, which is the best and seen, i.e. there is a certificate in this explanation why the amendment is not accepted, because here the promoter, or the Government, believes that the bill is all clear and without accepting the amendment. ‘According to the proposed draft law amending Article 38(2) of the applicable law, the financial year is a calendar year, except in the case of termination or commencement of activity in the course of the year, including status changes, as well as in the case of bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings, which we consider clear enough, which is why no amendment is necessary. “ I feel that this is clear enough, and for this reason such a technical amendment would be clearer and more precise than what was offered in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36594	Thank you. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric, who want a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36595	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Nenad Popovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 32, i.e. we have proposed that Article 32 of the proposed law be deleted. The existing Company Tax Act provided for certain incentives for those taxpayers who employ new workers and who contribute to the conservation of environmental protection. By means of this bill, or Article 32 of this Law, these incentives are abolished. We believe that under the conditions of the global economic crisis, which results in thousands of people losing their jobs on a daily basis, the elimination of tax incentives for those legal entities and taxpayers who employ new people is extremely inappropriate and unacceptable. It is completely illogical for tax incentives to be abolished in such a difficult situation for the economy by those legal persons who employ new workers. Also, at a time when all states invest significantly in so-called. Green technologies, when specific funds are formed for these purposes, when EU energy directives become an obligation to invest in renewable energy sources, we remove tax incentives for those who invest, invest in some environmental projects. We think it's unacceptable. Conservation of the environment, a healthy environment, are certainly an advantage for our agriculture, for our tourism and for the health of the population. We believe that certain tax incentives should be provided to anyone who invests and contributes to this, both by this law and by other laws that regulate that area. So I urge you to reconsider this amendment and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36596	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 39th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36597	Dear Presidency, the Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has arrived, and we have tabled an amendment to Article 39, or we have proposed that a member of the proposed law be deleted. The explanation is similar to that of the previous amendment. You know what kind of situation Serbia is in because of the global economic crisis, that thousands of people are out of work every day. Instead of providing for additional tax incentives for those who create new jobs, this law removes these incentives. All countries have been correcting their tax policy during the global economic crisis, in order to relieve the economy and citizens, in order to speed up economic activity. The government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to remove tax incentives for those economic operators that create new jobs. We find that totally unacceptable. The consequences of this crisis have the most impact on small family businesses; they cannot withstand unfair competition, which is congested by the gray economy. It should be kept in mind that the tax system should be based on the expansion of the number of taxpayers, i.e. to go into a decisive fight with the grey economy and to reduce tax rates; tax incentives should be given to all those who contribute to the creation of new jobs in difficult conditions. It's the only way the state should function. I call once again on you to consider this amendment and accept it, because it is really illogical for tax incentives to be lifted in these conditions for those who create new jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36598	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that a representative of the Government should reconsider when it comes to this amendment to Article 39. Proposal, i.e. Article 49 of the basic law. However, for the sake of the public and MPs who have not reviewed the law, I will read only the first position of Article 49, whose removal is proposed: "The obligor who, for an indefinite period of time", otherwise, is a permanent working relationship, "employee new workers to calculate corporate income tax, is reduced in the tax period for an amount equal to 100 % of gross earnings, i.e. wages paid to those employees paid for the corresponding public income paid to the employer". One tax relief, which stimulated the creation of new jobs for economic operators in Serbia. With this change and addition of this privilege or subsidy, call it whatever you want, it stops working. The government responds to this amendment: “The amendment is not accepted because there are already very stimulating incentives to be recognised by the employer on the basis of the employment of new workers in accordance with the rules governing the taxation of citizens' income and contributions to compulsory social security. In addition, we believe that the employment of new workers should be regulated by other measures of economic policy, noting that a significant amount on the basis of the realization of this incentive implies a significant reduction in tax revenues. “ The only thing that is true, and in part, can be these last few words. If the government already wants to lift some incentive and thinks that these incentives should be realized in a different way, I do not see where such legal proposals are in the procedure in the Serbian Parliament or that there is any preparation in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the very explanation why this article is 49. The law deletes the government says there are already enough incentive measures in connection with this tax relief. Of course, the government is competent to give its opinion in this area, certainly that the minister, who is the government's authorised representative here in the Assembly, is competent to give his opinion, but I would like, in addition to his opinion, to get the facts that will be their competence and claim to confirm. And the facts are the number of employees. These incentive measures have been adopted to increase the number of employees, i.e. to reduce the number of unemployed in the territory of the Republic. Unfortunately, something also caused by the government, something due to the global economic crisis, but it seems to me more because of the government, the number of unemployed in Serbia is constantly growing, or the number of employees is constantly falling. Obviously, all these incentive measures that existed along with this measure were not enough to produce the result that was expected. The incentive measures adopted for an area are lifted when the evaluations and wishes of the legislator are reached that there are so many employees in the economy or, if they are so good, when the number of employees exceeds the expectations of the legislator for this area. It seems to me that the whole story here is how to fill the budget, no matter what it's going to have to do with the economy. Madam Minister, for several months now, there has been an announcement of the rationalisation of the state apparatus or, usually, in the folk dictionary, there will be technological surpluses in the state administration as well. Now explain to me what will stimulate a potential employer to hire these people. What is the measure and the stimulation of the state predicting these workers to find a new job? I don't see any, because these existing ones aren't enough, and you're shutting them down. It seems to me that legislators, those who participate in lawmaking, law-making, expert associates, even outsiders who engage in writing a law, have not yet overcome a serious problem in their professional career – have not learned how money is made outside the state, outside the cabinet, outside the institutions. They didn't learn how to make money on the market. Obviously, when it comes to our legislation in the area of economy, fiscal policy and economy, that's the problem. When he goes down to the factory to see how a new value is created, how money is made, what are the problems, so that's where it's being searched and matured in ten years, I'm pretty sure our laws are going to be completely different. However, the government's policy is to have some experts who, apart from a degree in college, do not have some great and serious experience in the economy. Even fiscal policy is about the economy. Madam Minister, is the government planning to stimulate the export of domestic agricultural products? Even if we were in charge, we'd pay for those stimuli. It is also better to be in debt than to be in debt to use these funds for public consumption. Because when we're in debt this way we have an export article, the money goes back to the country as foreign currency, we have jobs, we have new value, there's everything. So, the goal is just for the state and its apparatus to survive, to make such a fiscal policy that doesn't give hope that we'll ever get out of this crisis. Madam Minister, if we already have some measures that are tax and incentive and that you are abolishing, why don't you take some other direction; why don't you remove state authorities that don't even have legitimate reasons to exist, and if they do, what are their results? I'd like to hear a report once about what the results are, say, foreign investment agencies and export promotions? Let's see what business they brokered and made income for the salaries they receive and made it easier for a potential exporter to place his goods, which foreign investment in the state brought. It's the only way we can support the existence of a machine that spends money. No results. We're gonna have to do something else. It's the easiest – let's cut through a little bit of what we can do, let the economy get by. In the debate I mentioned in principle – what do we have against new jobs? That money, Madam Minister, returns to the budget multiple times. This is a new job; it reduces the pressure on pension funds and health care funds; it complements the budget through higher spending. Minister Dinkic argues that exiting the crisis is through higher spending. How can you make more spending when you don't have workers who get paid, when you don't have new jobs? That's it, no more. I think this amendment is good, that you should think about it one more time and accept it. It is obvious, even if you accept it, that you have not done enough, that more stimulation is needed to create new jobs and reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36600	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36601	We have submitted an amendment to Article 40 and have proposed to replace the amount of ‘800’ in paragraph 1 with ‘400’. This article demonstrates that business is making it difficult for business operators, i.e. to reduce their potential for the use of tax incentives. In fact, the government has proposed that the amount a particular investor should invest be increased in order to achieve tax incentives. It is a very funny explanation of the government for not accepting this amendment, where it says that "an amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is made to value compliance with the amount of investment needed to exercise the right to tax incentives". We're all aware of the fact that millions of dinars today are worth two million years ago, so certainly no increase is required if there is a value adjustment. It is not necessary to increase that amount, but to reduce it. Our amendment suggested that the proposed amount, which one investor should invest in order to achieve tax incentives, be reduced from 800 million to 400 million. I would remind you that even before the start of the economic crisis, the investment cycle in Serbia entered the decline stage due to inadequate economic policy of the government. We had a chance a few days ago to see what the government's economic policy is, that each minister has its own policy and that there is no consistency, so I really don't know what's going to happen to this country, what's going to happen to the citizens and to the economy. In addition, the fact that, after the start of the economic crisis, investments have almost completely stopped. This is the fact, i.e. the bank's data, that out of 950,000 euros in loans in the previous year only 2.5% and the sums used for new investments, and all other funds were used to preserve liquidity. Foreign direct investment in 2009 is three times lower than in 2007. After such devastating facts and data in Serbia, when it comes to business and investment, you suggest increasing the amount of funds the investor needs to invest to achieve tax incentives. We believe that anyone who invests 400,000 dinars, receives a hundred new workers, or opens a hundred new jobs, should enjoy maximum tax incentives, not increase that amount. So I ask you once again to look at this amendment and accept it. I think it's really important for Serbia's economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36602	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 41st amendment. Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36603	We have submitted an amendment to Article 41 in which we propose to replace the amount of "eight million" in item 1 with "five million". In fact, even in this article, which is completely defeated, the government has proposed that the amount of funds the investor needs to invest in underdeveloped areas be increased. Also, the government's argument is that there is a value adjustment. I've said before that it's really not logical, that there really isn't money, that economic activities are down to a minimum and that we need to take care of, especially underdeveloped areas. We have proposed that this amount be reduced from eight million to five million. We are all aware that Serbia is characterized by a very different level of development between certain regions, especially between municipalities. When some indicators are taken into account, the level of unemployment is different in certain parts of Serbia, and these differences are 1:10. Then, the average personal income in Serbia ranges from 14,000 to 57,000. The difference in land prices in certain parts of Serbia goes up to 300 times. Only 4.2% of Belgrade's population and 23.5% of the population of Southeast Serbia can be considered poor. I would like to point out that over the past few years, 80% of the investments that have come to Serbia have been invested in Belgrade or within a 30km of Belgrade, and only 20% in the rest of Serbia. So, in addition to such differences in Serbia's development, at the level of investments invested in certain parts of Serbia, we are full of stories, i.e. Government, on a balanced regional development. We passed seven or eight months ago the Law on Equal Regional Development, which has not yet started to apply, and we already have announcements to amend that same law. Of course, changes to the law are under pressure from coalition partners, or representatives of Bosniak parties, so that all six municipalities in western Serbia living in the Bosniak population are in one region. Now, at least according to the announcements and what we can hear from the media, we're going to get some five regions, which will be completely dysfunctional, in order to preserve some kind of congregation majority and that the government has support for its operation. In addition to the tax incentives needed to invest in underdeveloped areas, more significant investment in infrastructure is certainly needed. The government has annulled the concession to build the Horgos-Pozega highway and since then, we have been told a story about the budget of the Republic of Serbia that certain funds will be provided, that we will start building the highway from Belgrade to Cačka; then we have announcements about the construction of the highway from Pojat, via Kruševac, Trstenik, Kralje and Cačka to Požega, and further to the border with Republika Srpska, so that this year we have about 20,000,000 euros planned for the construction of the highway, so that we can assume that we can build a few kilometers of highways. With this intensity, we in western Serbia can expect to get a freeway in the next 50 years. Of course, no serious investor will invest and invest in that part of Serbia unless there is a resolved traffic infrastructure. In addition to not having a solution to the infrastructure in that part of Serbia, as I come from there, there are many municipalities that are in an extremely difficult situation. First of all, I mean the municipalities of Nova Varosh, Priboj, Prepolje, Sjenica, where the daily mass of people is out of work. I'll let you know that there are nearly 3,000 people in Nova Varosha on the employment record, that they have moved between 400 and 500 people annually from Nova Varosha, so that the number of residents in the last few years has dropped by about 20%. The economy almost doesn't exist. In the municipality of Preboj 6,100 people are on the employment service records. You provide for this law to make conditions difficult for tax incentives for investors investing in underdeveloped areas. Who's going to invest in Nova Varosh, Priboj, Prepolje, if more, besides all the difficulties I've been talking about, we're burdening them and making their conditions difficult for tax incentives? I don't know if you know the fact that today's Preboy Car Factory has been cut off due to 60 million dinar debt? Those workers are staying. They're standing on the street today. The Kragujevac flag owes a billion dinars – electricity is not excluded. I don't mind, you need to speed up the flag that, if possible, makes cars. But why don't we have the same arches and those unfortunate people in Priboj who work at the Preboj Car Factory, but the electricity's off and they can't do those activities they can do so far? Once again I call upon you, this will not be burdensome for the budget, no significant revenue will be lost in the budget by accepting this amendment, to look at it again and to accept it. Because if, in addition to undeveloped infrastructure, despite all the problems that are being followed, we make it difficult for investors to invest in underdeveloped areas, nobody will really invest there; we will have population migrations from that area to Belgrade, and not all will be able to live in Belgrade either. Let us help people and investors invest in these underdeveloped areas to keep the population in that part of Serbia's territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36604	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the amendment to Article 73. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36605	We have also submitted an amendment to Article 73, so that it is changed and reads: “The regulations of Art. 3, 18, 30, 53 and 59 of this law, the finance minister will bring no later than six months from the date of entry into force of this law." We have suggested that this deadline be reduced, as the bill provides for those acts to be adopted within 12 months. We believe that the laws are adopted in order to apply and that the ministries and all state institutions should take care of the principle of efficiency, so that the six-month deadline, to prepare these sublegal acts for the application of this law, is quite sufficient. I don't see the logic in that it takes someone a year to write a sublegal act to apply this law. I think it's quite enough time for six months. I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36606	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 75th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36607	We have also submitted an amendment to Article 75, which we have proposed that it be changed and said: “Determination, accounting and payment of tax obligations under the provisions of this law will begin from the date of entry into force of the law.” We have suggested that this law be applied from the day of entry into force. It explains that it is necessary to apply it from 1 January 2010. In the debate on the principle of these laws, I was talking about the fact that the Ministry of Finance is obviously having a problem with the calendar because of the delay in the legislative proposals coming from the ministry. To remind you that the law and the draft budget law for the coming years are constantly late, that they have been late for a month, twenty days, that the budget procedure for this delay has been severely violated, that there is pressure on MPs to pass laws that they are not sure are the most poor and the best for the state. That's the way it is with these laws. Why these laws, why the Ministry of Finance? It was perfectly logical for these laws to be on the agenda of the Assembly, prepared at the end of last year, when the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, so we would not be in a position to have retroactive application of the law because it is allegedly an emergency procedure, because the tax year begins on 1 January 2010. We knew that last year. The law was to be written, and together with the budget law, they were to be found here in front of MPs and the company tax and the citizen income tax law. I would remind you that the revenues achieved by Serbia's budget from these two taxes are about 15% of the total revenues of the budget. So these are two very important laws when it comes to filling the Republic of Serbia's budget and they should be on the agenda when the Republic of Serbia's budget, and not now making a decision that it is necessary for them to be applied retroactively. The direct responsibility, therefore, lies with the Ministry of Finance, which did not timely deliver these draft laws. I invite you to accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36608	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36609	This is a similar amendment. On Article 76, we have tabled an amendment proposing that article 76 be changed and read: "This law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". We suggested that it be as for all other laws that are adopted, which take effect on the eighth day of the day of publication, and not the next day of publication in the “Official Messenger”. The explanation is exactly the same as for the previous amendment – due to the Ministry of Finance and their impediment, we are now in a situation where the law comes into force on the first day of publication, instead of the usual procedure, so I call on you to accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36610	Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36611	Just for a little while. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I truly believe that the amendments to the corporate tax law are changes that have significantly improved this law. Sixteen amendments to the MPs were rejected. I must say that mostly the amendments were rejected because the proposed amendments wanted to further reduce the tax base. I will only list some of these amendments that the government has rejected, with approximately the same explanation. Some MPs are against prescribing ways of calculating depreciation for tax purposes. The motive behind this is clear, because in this way, if the costs of depreciation were to appear as expenditure by choice, the tax base would be low. Also, some MPs, despite the fact that we have already increased the expenditure recognised by advertising and propaganda as expenditure, have sought a further increase in these expenditures. Something that is really very unusual and that I haven't found in the parallel tax systems is that expenditure is recognised to be a write-off of the value of individual claims if there are less than 100,000 dinars, a return of tax incentives to employment, a reduction of investment value for the exercise of tax incentives and a return to old ones when it comes to beating capital losses with capital gains, means, instead of the proposed five years to make it as it has been - ten years. I'd like to add a few things. Tax policy should be neutral. Tax policy should only be used in very rare cases to achieve some economic goals. The tax system must be simple and all these changes are changes in increasing simplicity. So if we define ourselves as a low tax rate, and we are when it comes to profit taxes, our basic tax rate is 10%. Before this law was changed, it was an effective 5%. Nevertheless, MPs are demanding a further reduction in effective tax rates. If we define ourselves as a low tax rate, and we are, the number of exemptions should be as small as possible. It is a very unusual combination – a low rate and a wide range of tax exemptions. Anyway, thanks for the suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36612	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Taxation Law on the income of the City (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Nenad Popović, Arsen Đurić, Branka Ljiljak, Dragan Stevanović, Mladen Grujic, Vladan Batić and Dusan Maric on the draft of the Law. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Finance and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before we move on to a review of the draft law in particular, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, dismissed as untimely amendments to Art. 5th and 7th, submitted by MP Vladan Batic, as an incomplete amendment adding a new article 1a, which was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric together submitted an amendment that was added before article 1. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36613	Since I haven't had a chance to say anything to the minister's exhibit, I'm going to take advantage of it now, so you're going to refuse me that time of authorized representative. The main motive of the amendment applicants when it comes to the DSS is that investors and people investing here are provided with the maximum tax incentive, or nothing drastically altered in relation to what was in the current Company Tax Act. These conditions are now tightening and making it difficult for investors to use certain tax incentives. It would be normal for the situation in Serbia and the world to be normal, that there is no global economic crisis and that we do not have the negative consequences of this global economic crisis. In the midst of the economic crisis, when we have very severe consequences of the economic crisis and the population of Serbia, making it difficult for investors and businesses to use certain tax incentives, I think it is incomprehensible. We don't have any other motives. When it comes to the proposal to increase the amount of advertising, we said it was increased compared to the current law. We said it would remain 5% or 10% for those export-oriented. We know what our external trade deficit is; we know that the export economy is very fragile and that we have very little exports, that we need to increase exports; we know that the advertising prices on foreign markets are much higher than we do. With that intention, we have submitted such an amendment, and we are asking for it. We also asked investors to reduce the amounts they need to invest in order to achieve tax incentives, especially for investors investing in underdeveloped areas. By accepting these amendments, Serbia's budget would be negligiblely slightly damaged. These are negligiblely small funds, which would mean a lot to investors, especially underdeveloped areas in Serbia, to get investors, to open up some jobs there, and to get these people employed. I really can't understand that hardness and that you don't want to accept at least that amendment that doesn't hurt the budget drastically, and it helps all of Serbia's undeveloped environments to get investors, which would create new jobs. Think again. I don't think that would have a significant impact on this year's budget revenues. Let me now return to the amendment to Article 1. You'll have to do it again. ) Before Article 1, a new member shall be added: “The basis of the income tax for employees within the meaning of the law governing work makes the earnings referred to in Article 13(1) and Article 1(1). 14 to 14b of this law, reduced by a minimum labour price for a certain month. “ Accepting this amendment would create conditions for discharging the economy of part of the tax, thus contributing to an increase in employee earnings, new employment, or a reduction in salaries for non-recorded employees. It is becoming a normal thing in Serbia that minimum personal incomes are paid through accounts, and that more and more work is done in black, making the state significantly damaged, or Serbia's budget, so I urge you to consider and accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36614	Minister Dragutinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36615	I would repeat that tax competitiveness is not the only way foreign investors are attracted. So I guess foreign investors know very well why they're investing somewhere and not somewhere. They also made a list, so to speak, a wish or things that matter to them for investment. Believe it or not, there's no tax here. For them, the tax rate is much more important for the tax system to be simple. So that's what investors say. Exactly 12 points are known why they come to invest in some regions and countries and not others. I really cannot believe that you think that the very difference between the tax rate and the profit tax in Serbia, which is nominally ten percent and effectively five percent – Serbia, when it comes to profit tax, is almost a tax paradise – not enough motive for investors, because in most European countries the average tax is 20%. Now you're saying that the difference between 20 and 10%, or effective five, isn't enough and let's just get this system going. The loss wouldn't be great, I agree with you there. You know why? Because the effective rate is low and because the tax instrument has an extremely small significance, unlike most European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36616	Thank you. MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36617	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry to hear these amendments this morning, and the opposition is trying to fix something, to do something, however... I've listened to the minister several times today when he gives some answers, opening statements, etc. Mrs Dragutinovic, you look extremely naive to a serious story like the one state's financial management in Serbia. I'm very glad to hear from you. You are, about, a woman who simply presents us with something that is imaginary, something that you would like to be, something that is unreal. You're trying to take where there isn't, and where there's too much, no one can touch it. So, I don't know what you're doing at the finance ministry in the first place, if it's exactly what it was last night -- a man gets on live TV and says he injected some of our businessmen with 50m euros, and that it's regularly in progress, some companies have been bought, etc. What do we talk about next? Be careful why there are finances, what kind of control mechanisms you have, etc.? You're gonna be taxing some unfortunate guy out there who's got a trade, a grocery store, chasing him to the bone, so he's gonna pay, whether seven thousand or two thousand, etc. Of course, you'll free the peasants, because in the country everything cares, there's nothing more to sell, produce, and brag about the team. To talk about loans, about the Development Fund, about big investments, about new jobs, it's a finished story, when a month between twelve and seventeen thousand people are out of work, when big money goes through some blurry flows, and you have no insight into any flows at all. Last night's findings, which I personally listened to, say one thing. If I were the finance minister, I'd resign. What would I do there if someone said publicly – I injected fifty million euros into one country, for one thing, for one job? Not to say now, if dozens of others come forward, too, that I don't count them now, but you will hear and you know it better than I do; if the Prime Minister comes out... Here, today I'm looking at the headlines, he says, the prime minister isn't taxed. Look out, poor thing, he can't survive. Let's get some money from the MP's salary. It doesn't make sense that the Prime Minister doesn't pay any taxes at least. How is it possible to leave a man with such small incomes and incomes? You're boasting about the team. I read, some agencies, estrads, singers, singers, record shoots, tapes, everything went somewhere else, some other people, and everything came out of regular streams. How cool can one of your colleagues sitting in the ministry do a 25 million-euro job without a tender to a phantom company that has a registration account of three thousand euros? How can your Ministry of Finance give consent, your predecessor, to EPS, to raise credit, to charge it the same thing, and to charge 32m euros, and now you give the private a cold one? You boast that you have put in the roads of big money, and the man has paid two million euros in taxes, takes millions of euros, enters the base stations, enters with optics into each house. Would a state allow someone to get into her telecommunications completely, into the system, into the highways, into the base stations, into every household, just like that, with a small fee, etc.? Who owns this property? Who has state resources? There's a lot of money coming through. If I were you, I repeat, that I was a minister and that I had been contacted by Cane Subotic to say that he had put 50m euros in the leading Serbian businessmen to buy it (and the man claims it), I don't know why I would sit in that ministry anymore. What is the purpose of a single state? How does it work when someone can do it so cold? Now we're chasing, we're talking about the wealth of some other people who've been doing ten grams of narcotics, so they've gone to tons; we're showing their property coldly now, and it's all been regular, normally through certain state institutions, and it's all been regular washed and it's over. If it wasn't for those Americans who were unhappy to call and say, "Hey, what are you doing?" It would have ended like that. No one should say anything. You'd be chasing another Zika, Mika, the grocery boy from Kursumlia, the Shop, whether he paid, settled down, closed down his grocery for seven days, 15 days, etc., until he secured the funds. Therefore, every day this country is getting poorer, businesses are increasingly falling apart. Thousands and thousands of companies were put into bankruptcy on purpose to fail. This morning, we listened to discussions concerning imports. An import lobby creates Serbia's policy. Those who mentioned last night that they were laundering money, that they participated in everything, they made a government. They boasted that they had sat down with several ambassadors and made a government. They're sitting in front of the bathroom, you're reporting to them, like... Who was the Prime Minister on the Kopalnik? Who did you report to when you gave your exposés? Who's your boss, Madam Minister? It is known who is the boss, who sat down, who listened in the first row from a lying position, while others were running around. I can't understand what perspective we're expecting with this law cosmetic, when you guys at the Bath... Key ministers who run macroeconomic policy, who run finance, have different opinions recently come out. You're completely divorcing. You say one thing, Dinkic says the other, Djelic says the third. Vlahovic, as a great boss, only smiles, nods and says – talk whatever you want, you know who the boss is. Now, look, Miskovic's doing his job, everyone's doing their job, Madam Minister, and we're messing around here. This people expect something serious to happen. Gas pushes, prices rise every day, electricity rises, gas rises, the country is in debt every day. You know what, I got a doon of grandma over there in my neighborhood, she's very old, we can get her to work at the finance ministry. We take credit, don't do business, in the state, do whatever they want. Why do you lose? You're a young woman, you're mobile. You can do something else. It's stupid of you to sit there, sit there, and nobody respects you, and you're the finance minister. I listened very carefully to you in the bathroom. You're talking one thing, a former finance minister comes out, Mr. Dinkic, and he's totally analizing everything you said. Malten, he says the crisis lasts until April of the month. April's in 15 days. He said there has been no crisis since April. Is that right? You say: We reduce public spending, we spend no more than we earn, and he says in September we raise wages. We're increasing pensions; we need to increase spending. So we don't understand anything. You're a funny government. You're a funny government. Djelic comes out and says a lesson, Jelasic has a story of his own. If it wasn't for those of the IMF, when they come, they get you together and say, "Come on, quiet, now don't say anything, now we're talking." They read you a letter and go, and then you blow each other apart again, each in their campaign, into their own party, into their own Athar, and everyone does what they want. That's why this country goes the way it goes. I don't think we have a finance minister. Dinkic speaks and says he will make roads. He says our businesses are no good, he's making new businesses. He makes institutions that are parallel to those we have and that are under your jurisdiction. That means, why are you sitting there? What are you doing? He says he's making a nice company that he's going to build, he's going to work, he's going to take loans, he's going to live, he's going to work, he's going to work. Right? He's not asking if he can do it. Do you respect the Ministry Act? Do you know what anybody's doing out there? Is anyone asking you? Do you keep your hand on finance? No, he does whatever he wants here. The other day I'm listening, it's a little bit of company, it's just from the government, it's been at a big megalomanical celebration right now on the weekend, in New Belgrade; it's got real information, and it's got everything to tell where to place it, who to. Some of the people who are looking forward to it are told – you have received a fund for development, but bring a guarantee from the bank. When they turn on the phone, none of those who aren't on the list can get a guarantee from the bank. That's why one Budimka, as a fruit and vegetable processor, is going down, and it was the largest exporter on the Russian market. That's why the chips are going down, that's why "Serbian" Valjevo is going down, which is why the large exporter of fire-storage materials, Magnochrom, which exported everything to the Russian market, is going down. That's why all the ones someone said had to go down are going down. That's why JAT's going down, because someone wouldn't allow privatisation. It was all over already, and it was in an interstate agreement with the Russians; it was supposed to be signed, and it was all settled. It all fell apart because someone said -- I won't let it, I remember it well in the government, there's nothing of it. An airline from Montenegro is being introduced, which is starting to operate in Serbia, and our JAT is running down the water. Whose money is in that airline? Who do you think the money is? Don't make another phone call directly into the program and say, "I bought those planes there; though, I can't come to your country, but there's my money, they're spinning, I'm doing the job; what I'm going to do is get there, I've got a lot of work to do. Is that right? Now we have one system that works here, this parliament is getting busy; we're talking about whether a million there, is going to increase any income; you're talking now one percent, 0.20%, etc., and someone cool fifty million, 100 million euros, one billion. Madam Minister, did you do anything when the president of the state, whom I greatly appreciate when he made that statement, said -- two and a half billion euros were damaged by the state of Serbia, i.e. your ministry and the city of Belgrade, with Luka Belgrade and Ustas? The president said it himself. I think some MPs heard. I guess someone heard about the show on the subject. What happened to those two and a half billion? Did they come into the budget or not? How can we now chase for some public procurement in some poor people's municipality, make laborates, all of this, come man and the optical cables go through all the corridors with some tax of two million euros at once? Whose account were these two million euros paid from? Can we get into Slovenia's telecommunications system and control them completely with optical cables? We can't. But there's an avalanche here, as I often say, doing what I want. This is where you import whatever you want, wherever you want, whatever you want. Did the D.A. do anything about last night's statement? Have they committed any criminal acts against some businessmen? Has anyone done anything on the subject today? He can't and he can't. We will continue to deal with some small things, and We will say to those who are politically unfit: find him something there that we may bring him in, that We may teach him reason. Right? You'll come here with a nice story, tell us that pretty story, we hear it; you smile at us, we applaud you, this team applauds and it's fun. It's fun. However, there are no MPs from the ruling coalition, they have more to do, they will not sit here. You listen to applause, ovation, everything gets nice and tomorrow again – don't let anyone else, third, etc. I expect others to answer very quickly and say – we are you. Therefore, take the digins into your hands as far as finance is concerned, if you can, Mrs Dragutinovic. If you can't, or if you can't, you have to go decently, elegantly, finely, and finish everything nicely, and someone who will really introduce order will come to your place and Serbia will move forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36618	The time available to the president of the parliamentary group was used and minutes and twenty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Branko Ljiljak submitted an amendment adding a new Article 1a after Article 1. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric together submitted an amendment adding a new Article 1b after article 1. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36619	We have submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 1b be added after Article 1, which reads: Article 21d, item 5, instead of "15 days" should stand "three months". This amendment requires an extension of the period within which the employer can employ a person from the labour market who would replace the previous employee from 15 days to three months, in order to retain the right to not pay taxes under this law for two years. I think the Minister might accept this amendment. I'd like to go back to that law now, to our previous corporate tax debate. I'm glad we agreed that accepting that amendment would not significantly affect budget revenues. I appeal once again, for this reason accept that amendment. I think that would be significant. I'll agree with you that it's not crucial where someone invests. That's what I was talking about earlier when I was talking about that amendment. I was talking about the need to build a traffic infrastructure. Of course someone will invest in Belgrade, India, Caves, Old Paz, and it's a good thing it's being invested there, when we have two highways passing through those municipalities. What should we do in western Serbia? You know that the Zlatibor County is the only district in Serbia that has an external trade surplus, has more exports than imports, but we really don't have a solution to traffic infrastructure. The government annulled a concession to build a highway from Belgrade to Požega. We've had announcements, for two years, that hasn't yet started building the highway, which we really need to attract any investors. A reconstruction of the road from Zlatibor to Kokino Brod was carried out during the previous government, a reconstruction of the road from Nova Varoshi to the border with Montenegro. Last year, a reconstruction began from Koka's boat to Nova Varosha. There's a question of when it'll be over. How do we attract someone to invest in these municipalities? I'm not talking about the community I come from on purpose. I come from Zlatibor, from the municipality of Chatin. We have a lot of investments. We're a fairly developed municipality and I'm not talking about our problems, I'm talking about the problems of the municipalities of Nova Varoš, Priboj, Prepolje, Sjenica, which are underdeveloped areas. I think that this government really needs to do something to stimulate potential investors to invest in these areas as well. I primarily mean traffic infrastructure. Not to mention the Ponika airport. During the previous government, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the entire government invested funds in removing the remaining missiles at the Ponikva airport runways. The runways were changed, and then it stopped. We now have a declaration of that airport for civilian purposes. It's some kind of protocol that he'll be for civilian purposes. Of course, no financial resources are provided for the reconstruction of that airport, so that doesn't mean anything. If you really want to help that end, that's what the funds have to be for. Once again, we have agreed that budget revenues will be insignificantly reduced by accepting this amendment and I urge you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36620	One minute and thirty seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36621	Generally, this is an amendment that we wanted to simplify what is in Article 2. You just said one sentence, which is that the interest in the tax system is simple. There, this can be framed with it. Maybe what it says in Article 2 we wanted to simplify. After all, the formulation we proposed was defined in the national integration programme, i.e. the amendments and additions to the programme that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted and sent to the assembly procedure. If you go in there and look at what your obligations are when it comes to the tax system and tax policy, what concerns the taxation of farmers, or forestry, is defined as we have suggested. It's essentially not going to change anything in this text of the law, but we thought it was more rational and more acceptable. Of course, when it comes to amending and supplementing this law, it can be viewed with two aspects: one is the alignment with the Accounting and Audit Act, and the other is the downturn of tax rates that should be in the function of the capital market affirmation in Serbia. In the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, subsidies and tax incentives are acceptable in any case and are not disputed, however, we believe that what we are talking about today and we are discussing really to a small extent will affect the affirmation of the capital market. Basically, there's a lot to be taken care of. There's no healthy and normal capital market until it's settled, say, a course, until the banks get in line. That's what I mentioned, you weren't in the O.R., Mrs. Dragutinovic. It is impossible for the state to have no mechanisms to influence the fact that the differences in interest rates on deposits and interest on the paid dinar funds are eighteen times, so there are a number of other things that are objectively to be regulated in the state in order to give these changes to tax laws certain effects. You said just now that investors know the reasons why they don't come to one country. I'm guessing we've managed such knowledge to have a balance of investment investments in the previous year and in the year before. That's where we go back to those standards we talked about earlier. I can conclude that, when it comes to our tax system, the harmonisation of this legislation with your EU leader has gone the farthest, but if this area has gone the farthest, and the European Commission says it is not enough either, then you can imagine the situation in other sectoral policies. If this had been accepted, fundamentally no changes would have occurred, but we think our solution was simpler. As for these amendments and the addition of tax laws, I think you owe us one answer in principle, Madam Minister. Why isn't the State Aid Control Commission working? This is a question that is related to the standard and which is being raised as a problem, as with the State Auditing Institution. Any tax relief treated as a subsidy may be subject to the control of this commission. This is why the Commission is not working. She hasn't worked all these years or the State Audit Institute, so she started to unwrap. Our question is – when will it start working, because it is necessary for a fair approach to subsidies, i.e. tax relief for market participants in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36622	It was used two minutes and thirty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Mladen Grujic submitted an amendment adding a new Article 5a after Article 5. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36623	Madam Minister, it is true that this proposal for a income tax law has tried to stimulate the development of the capital market through a reduction in tax rates, by reducing the tax rate on capital revenues and capital gains from 20 to 10%, as well as on insurance revenues from 20 to 10%. I would like to remind you of the fact that the DSS Parliamentary Group proposed that tax cuts at the very beginning of the economic crisis. We didn't come across your understanding then. We were declared pessimists, people who spread defetism and panic. Unfortunately, we were right, and those measures came in late. I want to say that it is not true that in this year people will be relieved, that these tax rates will be reduced, given the fact that they did not pay at all last year. We had a regulation, or law on suspension of payments. It was not 20%, but it was 0% by the first January of this year, or 31 December 2009, and this year it was planned to decrease from 20 to 10%. I don't think she's ready to come back yet. I think it should have been extended to this year not to pay that tax, but it's your commitment. In Article 9, we proposed an amendment: "Extremely from the position of the 1st member, the income tax rate is 8%". You have suggested a reduction from 20 to 10%, and we suggest that this reduction be from 20 to 8%, because the insurance market, especially life insurance, is not sufficiently developed. I think by accepting this amendment, that insurance market would be blown off. I think that in this way the largest number of Serbian citizens would be secured, which is unfortunately not the case now, so I urge you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36624	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36625	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has proposed that annual income tax be paid in the following way: to the amount of up to six percent of the average annual earnings per year; to the amount of over six percent of the average annual earnings per to six percent of the average annual earnings and another 15% to the sum of over six percent of the average earnings. The essence of my amendment is the introduction of more tax or payment classes and a progressive tax increase for those who have higher incomes. I'll read my amendment. I suggest that an additional 5% tax be paid to an amount of up to four times the average profit. To make it clearer for citizens, it is approximately a profit of 1,600,000 dinars, or 16,000 euros a year or 48 average salaries. Also, I suggest that citizens who receive 60 average salaries per year, two million dinars or 20,000 euros, pay an additional 10% tax; that citizens who receive 72 average salaries, that is, around 2,400,000 dinars, pay 15% of the extra tax; and that citizens who receive more than 72 salaries, or over 2,400,000 dinars, to the amount of over six times the salary of 20% to the amount of up to six times the earnings, and to the amount of over six times the average earnings to pay another 50%. I believe that by introducing these paying classes and increasing taxes, a fairer tax policy and more successful budgeting would be ensured. I draw attention to the fact that the adoption of this amendment would affect several thousand people, mostly people working in successful private companies, banks; there are these people in the Assembly, secretaries of various committees, government members, ministry advisers, who receive more than 100,000 dinars per month on average, and most of them have a higher salary than the MPs, ministers or even the president of the state. In Serbia, according to official data, there are 700,000 people living below the poverty line and who have less than one euro of income daily, practically have enough to buy a kilo of bread and one liter of milk. I simply think there's no fairer solution than for the state to take from those who have too much and to give to those who have nothing. The advocates of capitalism and markets, those who defend the existing system, will say that those who have been more capable than those who do not have. Anyway, that's true, but it's not possible for someone to be more capable of a hundred or a thousand times than anyone else. I will read and comment on the government's brief argument, which is why it rejects this amendment. Among other things, it is said: "A higher number of tax rates would increase the costs of administering that fiscal form, which would make it impossible to accept that amendment." I don't think this argument is serious. The costs are, in any case, negligible in relation to the funds that would be received by accepting the amendments, i.e. by additional taxation of citizens' incomes that have one year's gross earnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36626	A minute and forty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 17th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36627	We have submitted an amendment to Article 17, or we have proposed that Article 17 be deleted. I would just like to make it clear that it is not misunderstood, given that this article is proposed for 2011 not to be determined and does not pay income tax from agriculture and forestry on cadastrian income. So that's the government's proposal. He hasn't been paid since 2004. Our amendment has been submitted in the sense that it is illogical that the law states that this type of income is not paid in one year. So it's so insignificant revenue for the budget that it might take a decision that it won't be paid at all or that it won't be paid until it's assessed on some criteria that it should be paid. I think it's kind of horny and legally slightly unequivocal, maybe someone will read this law in 20 years, and the law will say that this tax is not paid for 2011. So, in that sense, an amendment has been submitted and I think it might be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36628	National MP Branko Ljiljak submitted an amendment adding a new Article 18a after Article 18a. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 20th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36629	We have submitted an amendment to Article 21 to amend Article 21 and read: "This law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The explanation is similar to that of the previous law. In response to the government's response, why the amendment was not accepted states that the 2010 budget was designed to record income from income tax, i.e. to apply this from 1 January 2010. So, the reason is also the delay of the Ministry of Finance, or the entire government, because this law, as well as the Company Tax Act, was also to be found on the Assembly's agenda when and the budget and started to apply from January 1st, and today, on March 16th, we are discussing it, and it will be adopted only at the end of March. It shows the irresponsibility of the Ministry and Government when these deadlines and calendars are at stake. Since we are finishing this law, it remains only unclear whether the minister has accepted that amendment to the profit tax. I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36630	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? The word is made by Minister Diana Dragutinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Minister, or the Government, did not accept 11 of the 13 amendments relating to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens. The amendments to the law itself are really cosmetic and have two goals; one is to resuscitate a little and try to revive the capital market. Perhaps an even more important goal is to reduce the number of nominal and effective tax rates. We know that this is a system of cedular taxes, which doesn't exist anywhere in the world, that it has four nominal and eight effective tax rates. One of the ideas behind these minor changes in the law is to at least harmonize tax rates relating to capital revenues, so from 20 to 10%, and thus to equalize with profit tax. There were two kinds of amendments. One number of amendments aimed at reducing the tax base; therefore, to reduce the tax burden, at least when it comes to profits, it is less. The other amendments applied to the so-called so-called a commitment to greater tax administration. When it comes to those amendments relating to the reduction of the tax base, it is close to me and I hope that soon before this Parliament we will be able to decide on it, this is the tax of the non-taxable part, it was a proposal to increase the non-taxable part from the present, to say the most harshest, six to sixteen thousand dinars. This idea is excellent, but it could not be done without the change of some other laws, i.e. as part of the tax reform ahead of us. I hope we can talk about this change very quickly, to the satisfaction of both sides. As far as tax administration is concerned, it was an idea that seemed attractive, which is to increase the number of rates relating to the tax on the annual income of citizens. We know there are two feet today. There was a suggestion that there were four or five feet, which seems fair, because people who are richer should pay more and some proportionality can be introduced. However, when we come to the field of numbers, the annual income tax usually gathers about a hundred and forty billion dinars, of which with this annual tax, which is an additional tax on this cedular tax that is paid, only two billion, so there would be too much administration for a relatively small effect. In any case, thank you for the amendments and I hope that we will change this law relatively quickly in a way that increases the competitiveness of our workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36632	MP Zoran Shami has been reported. You have no right to speak. After the debate in particular... No, I don't. Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly – a debate in particular, unfortunately, only the promoter, but we will continue, so you will also have the opportunity. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at the ERSTE GCIB FINANCIANCE I.B.V. AMSTERDAM, WITH ERSTE BANK A.D. NEW NOW AS AGENT, MARFIN BANK A.D. BELGRADE AND VOJVODIAN BANK A.D. NEW USA (single) You have received an amendment to the bill submitted by MP Dragan Stevanović. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected the untimely amendments submitted to Article 1 and Article 4 jointly by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovenka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelevic, Mileta Poscura, Gojko Radić, Mico Rogovic, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Colić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as from the Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, and pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. MP Zorana Shami, if you want a word now, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36633	Thank you. I have nothing to add to this that the amendment was accepted, but at the end of the last debate on the law that was on the agenda, I felt the need to say something to the Minister. I am so glad that Serbia lives in a tax paradise. I doubt the citizens of Serbia, when they rise up in the morning and look at their wallet, share that opinion. Speaking of heaven, I believe, Madam Minister, that you are a person of good intentions. I really believe that. The only trouble is that an Italian poet a few hundred years ago wrote that the road to hell was paved with good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36634	One minute used by the MP's group. Minister Diana Dragutinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36635	I never said that Serbia lives in a tax paradise. I don't think the tax haven is good and that any serious country has a tax haven. It is known which countries have a tax haven. I don't see Serbia in that group of countries. I just said that when it comes to profit taxes, tax rates, nominal 10%, effective 5%, it seems like Serbia is a country of tax haven, only at tax rates. Otherwise, I hope you don't think it's a good idea for Serbia to be okay for those countries that are a tax haven.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36636	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at Ersta GCIB Finance I.B.V. Amsterdam, with Erste banka.d. Novi Sad as an agent, Marfin banka a.d. Belgrade and Vojvodjanska banka a.d. Novi Sad, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 5th point of the agenda – PROPOSING ON DAVANY OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIAGAS IN THE USE OF THE "BANCA INTES" A.D. BELGRADE BY THE PUBLISHING OF THE PUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC "SRBIAGAS" NEW USA (individuals) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the National MPs Aleksandar Martinović, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Peladinović, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Žalić and Draga Žalić. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Finance Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, and National MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36637	The way the session was scheduled, the time we had to submit amendments and the fact that they were rejected as untimely talks about the dignity of the National Assembly, the respect for parliamentary work and our ability to correct from the best intentions some of these laws that are on the agenda. One of the few laws for which a man ever manages to report, using at least his time, although his amendment as a parliamentary group has been rejected, is this, simply in a way that gives him time to discuss such important issues in the context of a joint debate as was this one about credit duties. I think this is an opportunity to repeat once again that it is necessary that when you deliver a bill to the Assembly asking us for a guarantee, which is always unconditional, irrevocable, with all the accompanying costs, we also get a basic loan agreement on which we give the guarantee. How can we guarantee something without knowing what the basis is for that guarantee? The reason for this is, I will repeat, the reconstruction of "Gazale" and the bypass around Belgrade. In this house, we adopted a guarantee, and none of us had any idea that the condition for obtaining that loan was the relocation of the Roma settlement, which was subdued by the social and environmental conditions that must be secured in order to withdraw that money. Under these social and environmental conditions, something has been subdued that nobody, anywhere, never asks for. If the EU, and these are European funds, there are no criteria for guaranteeing these and these standards, we were expected (and we are still expected, a very small part of the funds we have withdrawn) that anywhere, ever applied the world's highest standards in this regard, we must meet, as guarantors, in order to withdraw funds. Is that appropriate to the dignity of a country that receives credit under such conditions? Is that appropriate for the dignity of the people's chosen ones to plead? I'm saying it's not. What thanks to your seriousness of approach, to your personal, Mrs Dragutinović, we managed to get – after granting credit for what are the purposes we will never approve – is that for a budget deficit, or a wasteful government, we approve borrowing, which you personally cannot influence – are credit agreements with these banks with which you have concluded the arrangement and we see that this is not so easy and good conditions. Why is it so controversial for us to vouch for a loan we don't know about? For example, citizens had the opportunity to hear in radio shows this morning about Consumer Rights Day, that hundreds and thousands of requests from individuals who complained about inadequate banking services followed by such a reaction and to check whether banks really hide from their committees the conditions under which loans came about astounding results. A man who wanted to get a loan from the banks in advance, to sit home and calculate what it meant to him, went on an impossible mission. None of the business banks, commercial, domestic, domestically prefixed, wanted to deliver a possible, potential loan user to a loan contract! The reason why they didn't deliver it to them is the same one that we don't have a loan contract here that we have to issue a guarantee for, or agree to put into service a guarantee that someone has already initialled, signed or promised. If such credit agreements didn't cover up controversial matters, they'd be public. It's not about hidden flaws, it's about the intentions that are put into motion as conditions of such loans, whether they're taken by a physical person or us as a state. This is a new reason for me to remind myself of two things with the "bathroom confessional" as I understood the performances of many former ministers, senior advisers, sworn reformers who poured ashes because they made a terrible mistake and turned those loans into euros, today aware that it was difficult for us as a state. Did anyone at this guarantee tell us what the weight of this foreign exchange clause means? No, I don't. It is their fault that they then uncritically carried out the translation from dollar to euro. Today they say it's best to be in debt in dinars. Even the loans the government gave, the most stimulating, here I read about this pay phone, were with the currency clause. Those who believe that they are extremely intelligent, that behind raving foreign, untranslated words, for which there are beautiful Serbian words, hide their intelligence, forget that this people have had sufficient discretion and wisdom to realize that behind these good intentions, as someone said just a moment, they are actually hiding the surface of a government that was unable to even withdraw all approved loans. Unfortunately, you, Mrs Dragutinovic, had to return to Belgrade because of your illness. The rest of us in Kopalnik had the opportunity to hear Mr. Djelic say to everyone that we are withdrawing less credit from the World Bank than we are entitled to in our role, according to the conditions. Instead of putting an end to the point, to say, and by mistake, the Government did not withdraw all the appropriations, he kept it quiet and survived in front of a representative of the World Bank who sat in the hall. Should it be for someone who wanted to commend himself or to play the protector of national interest to now suffer someone who counted on these loans, someone who did not say the fact that in 2007 we paid a million euros of criminal interest on approved and undrawn loans from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? And, today, to say that we get less credit than we're entitled to with regard to the distribution, not to say that we haven't even been withdrawn or approved, and then add that we don't have any design houses, we don't have those who design tunnels, tells you that, as a common case of a woman who wants to take her job seriously, it's not easy to deal with in a government like that, which also happened here. He comes and talks who he wants, on any subject, dissonantly or, as you might say, three opinions, of which, unfortunately, what is professionally, economically, which was in your report, which has not been published anywhere... Yours alone has not been published anywhere, neither will the Deputy Prime Minister nor the Democratic Party nor the Government as a whole stand behind it. I don't have a problem admitting that you were the only one who had a high-quality evaluation of the situation and possible exits from the crisis, and that as an economist, I was ashamed of those who were at the same time saying that we needed to develop state capitalism at the same time and reduce the role of the state at all. The reputation of the economic profession and the reputation of the government in Kopalnik has not been achieved, but those good tones and responsible tones that were heard there, and there are few, must be transmitted here. One of them is, for example, that we have to base our development on savings, not on loans. How can he save one who doesn't get paid and can't survive? Is it just so difficult to accept the Serbian Progressive Party's initiative, which still told the budget system and the memorandum that it could not be a basic goal of price stability, inflation, but of employment and employment-based development? Because if you say - demand is needed to develop economy, that someone has money to buy, that's demand, where does that demand come from? Would anyone like to open the straws where he sewed up? I don't know what time he earned his Euros. This demand can only be achieved by employment, income and spending in stores and buying our goods. In this "responsible" are those who have opened customs, abolished all borders, obstacles and made full liberalisation cry over the fact that we have no industry today or, as they called it, we have no exchangeable goods and nothing to face the world. At the same time, we have an ad by Mr Dinkic, who has made it public and clear – he will change his attitude, approach, opinion, whatever it takes, for a basic reason only, he says, to help the people, and I say – to stay in the chair where he is. And he offered consumer loans by advertising savings. We want to achieve sustainable development, and we want to advertise consumption. We say we need to develop in savings, not provide people with jobs. Someone is asking the Serbian Progressive Party for a concrete programme. Isn't a concrete program all that we're saying here by putting objections to these borrowings, for which, for no one at all, we don't have an effect? We founded the Public Debt Administration in 2004, and in 2010, we still don't know who's sitting here from the Public Debt Administration to explain what this means for our country's future. You will say to me, "Demagogy, when I say, my children and all the other children will be in debt, and so will my children." No, the responsible state has to say what credit risk is, which will fill this country's budget, which industry, production, what services, exchangeable services will be able to secure profits, cover the costs, then charge the budget, and return these loans? What are these loans going to be invested in? Do we have the cost-effectiveness of what we've already taken, or because of the Bather I missed the debt story at KfW Bank? I don't want to mention it as a principle and where you and such loans are going, but I have one of the implemented projects in water supply, or what was called the Water and Water Modernization and sewerage project, where in the material that exists... It's original, let the camera zoom in, see what you and those loans are used in. So, we have accepted millions of millions here to be part of the public debt, one that no one can slow down, part of the total debt, which also the serious state cannot slow down, although it calls it commercial, because it also methodologically covers as a total debt; it has grown to 34 billion euros, and the whole of the former Yugoslavia has before the collapse had 14.6 billion dollars in debt. Do you know how many former republics of that Yugoslavia today? One hundred billion debt, responsiblely claimed. So there's debt financing on the scene, like a post-modern lifestyle. Instead of reviewing whether we really need to be in debt, how much it's worth, how we're going to get back, if we're going to have something, no, if we just see a chance to put ourselves in debt somewhere... It's like a sick addiction to a woman who goes into town and sees sales and runs into a store, whether she needs it or not. One of these loans is KfW credit, where the total amount is, I will read to you only a few purposes, the money invested for: renting space where KfW experts will sit, home office trade; cost of going home; purchase of computer equipment; vehicles that will be taken in licking and used for this project; evaluation of project and quality control. I'll tell you, it's called cost breakdown, financial analysis, proposal... For example, out of 886,000 euros, total costs for Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac and Belgrade, believe it or not, only about 85,000 euros go to spare parts to modernise this water and sewerage! Everything else is what is under the consulting services, in fact: the cost of living and staying in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad, paying for the high profession of those who tell us about good and quality water, the way we should organise it, how to exchange experiences, follow world trends, etc. Believe me, I'm not a cartoon. I'll make you a contribution. So, out of 886 million interest-free loans, 90% of these funds go to what's called a "pronged boiler", a Serbian budget or local self-government, the state of Serbia as a guarantee, a debt to our generations. What about the effects? The price of water (let the citizens know what their city is), tells us that we should enter the privatisation of public enterprises, because we have it left. No one will say that the salary of counterpart Bajatovic at the Management Board is part of the price of gas, that the director's salary (their pictures, their vacations, their holidays, their seminars) is embedded in the price of electricity. Will someone enter the cost analysis of those who are the daily costs of us paying utility services and I, who work in a public company, manage to pay them in time? What others do, many Serbian citizens know. So, let's not follow the sacred story of rogue credit policy, of world trends. We can be very well modern if, first of all, we are responsible, safe and honest with our citizens and we tell them – this infrastructure project will cost so many millions, the condition that we get a loan that costs so much and so many dinars is to move Roma families. No one will blame you. It's a lie, no matter how good she's got in mind, it never ends well. These loans, this type, regardless of which they are also covered with good intentions, are almost classified data, which, you know, sooner or later still leaks into the public and mutilation and good projects behind which the government or even, for example, you. And you know for a fact that at that bathing forum, we got a very unpleasant "slap" from Mr. Konuzin, a diplomat, who said that in this country in two years, nothing has changed, and that when he sold NIS, he didn't even know what he was buying, but not even the seller of what he was selling. I am neither guilty nor in debt, like many, feeling responsible and ashamed because someone from the government, promising the speed and ease of some international projects, has brought the country into such a situation. We can't afford that. I've been to a bathing forum from the first to the last lecture, and on every panel; not on any cocktail, not open or closed type. These were open meetings and talks, but my top impression, Mrs Dragutinovic, is to tell your colleagues from the government that Miodrag Kostic is giving us a lesson about how he made a fair fortune buying sugar for three euros without telling the man that he can forge or not predict the future, but that someone can falsify the past, it's really unacceptable, even in this country. Thank you. We're not voting for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36638	The time foreseen for the mandated representative of the Prosperity Group, Serbia has been spent. Three minutes and thirty-five seconds left of the MP's time. The word is Mr. Radulović Milos, with seven minutes and fifty seconds left over.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dragutinovic, when you come to this assembly building, it is likely that all citizens of Serbia feel cold, because, to be honest, this is another of our attempts to convince you to stop in charge of covering short-term commitments, to refinance the debts you have already imposed on citizens, to cover liquidity and to cover the budget deficit. Mrs Dragutinovic, a poor country that uses loans to repay loans already taken, to cover liquidity and budget deficits. We, as you know, have already used one loan this year to cover the budget deficit, it's a $200 million Russian loan. These two loans used to refinance short-term liabilities to commercial banks, to finance and maintain liquid liquidity and to cover the budget deficit are 330,000,000 euros. We have two more loans that were held here in principle, so the total "weight", so I call those 700,000 euros, just for January and February of this year, and that's for commercial banks, with interest crossing 7%. The DSS parliamentary group has already warned you, Mrs Dragutinovic, that economic operators in EU credit countries are taking loans with interest from 1.8% to 2%. Mrs Dragutinović, how do you cover the budget deficit? Credits. What is the total public debt? That's what we finally expect, and from your Public Debt Administration we should get the exact information. If you say that the total public debt is 31% of GDP, if the president of the state says that over 35%, if we already have these responsibilities, it is obvious that this total public debt exceeds 40% of GDP. The external debt is likely to be, if debts are collected from businesses and banks, already more than 70% of GDP, and that is what disturbs all citizens of Serbia. Mrs Dragutinovic, what is the debt that the state of Serbia should repay only this year – 5.6 billion euros or, translated into days, seven million euros a day. Where are you going? If we have a production that records the decline compared to last year, only for the first two months, 12.1%, although you say in your heart that the increase in production in the first three months is 3.7%, and we know that last year because of the economic crisis it was dead months, it is clear to every citizen in Serbia that we cannot expect an improvement and increase in production this year. We'll explain that in simple facts. You have a constant reduction in the number of employees for the first two months. In January, 14,000 employees were reduced by 14,000; in February, the number of employees was reduced by more than 16,000. These are the data that the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia came up with. If last year we had 172,000 of those who had lost their jobs, it would have exceeded the figure of 200,000 unemployed, or those who had lost their jobs. I'll remind the citizens what you promised everyone when you came to power, and that's 200,000 new jobs. Instead of 200,000 new jobs, we have, Mrs Dragutinovic, over 200,000 people who have lost their jobs. How many poor people do you have living below the poverty line? Over 700,000. How many of them are receiving social aid? How many of them depend on folk cuisine? How many average daily strikes do you have? Last year you had an average of 25 strikes a day. This year, the number tripled, you have about 75 strikes daily in Serbia. In the end, I would like to ask you – what is your policy? Because if Mr. Dinkic says that spending policy is in loans, if your policy is and what you say, Mrs. Dragutinović, that you need to increase VAT, that this is how you regulate consumption, if we have Mr. Jelasic who says that you should stop with easy borrowing because we are going to enter debt slavery, what we are concerned about is this particular picture that shows you sitting at a summit in Kopalnik, where you said, I end up, why you love the Kopalnik – because you are all together, and not one against the other. What I have just said shows that although you may not be aware of it, you are working against each other and against Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36640	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the examination of the proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. As we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON PRE-SCHOOL VESSITATION AND EDUCATION (single) pursuant to Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly for the Search in Details of the 6th and 7th Points of the Agenda, in addition to the representatives of the Proposer, Dr Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, has called for the meeting to be attended by Dr Želimir Popov, Assistant Minister of Education Zoran Trninić, Assistant Minister of Education, Miroslav Radikic and Ljiljana Nenadovic, senior advisers at the Ministry of Education. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Saša Maksimović, Jelena Budimirović, Nikola Savić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Donka Banović, Slobodan Vuković, Nikola Lazić, Radiša Ilic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Zoran Popović, Marina Ragus, Sladjan Mijaljević, Goran Mihajlović, Sreto Perić, Radica Jocic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Dusan Marić, Olena Papuga, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Aleksandra Janković and Zoran Šami, as well as the Committee for Education. You have received a report from the Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr. Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36641	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have the habit of reminding you of the breach of the Rules of Procedure often, but I will warn you of Article 149: “The legislator, the committees responsible, and the Government are obliged to consider before the National Assembly meetings the amendments submitted on the draft law and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. “ Unfortunately, the Committee did its part last week and something small today. However, we did not get the government's official opinion on the amendments, no acceptances, no refusals, and therefore we did not get an explanation. The Committee, however, worked thanks to the presence of Mr. Minister, and this committee can; I fear that we cannot do this at a plenary session without the government's opinion. I'm simply suggesting that you take a break or possibly move to that agenda tomorrow, but first we have to get the government's opinion. MPs don't know the official opinion of the government, or an explanation for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36642	Mr. Shami, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. According to Article 141(5), the bill will also be considered without reports from the relevant committees and the government's opinion. It is my job to inform the Committee that, at the Committee meeting, by making a direct statement on each individual amendment, the Government's representative delivered his opinion, i.e. the proposalor's opinion, and adopted or did not adopt it, and this is in the Committee's report. It exists. (Zoran Shami, from the scene: it's not the Committee. The board did the job, but the problem is the other MPs don't know. ) I understand, but I read you well that even without the government's opinion the proposal was discussed, was the 6th point, which is currently on the agenda. (Zoran Shami, from the post: Mr. Chairman, do you think that's correct? So, I'll keep my opinion. As chairman, I'm only obliged to read and explain to you as to the violation of the Rules of Procedure which was indicated. If you are not satisfied, you certainly have the right to ask for it in the voting day, the Assembly will plead. Go ahead, Mr. Shami. (Zoran Shami, from the post: MPs have no government opinion. I don't insist that the assembly plead, because no one will vote for it. I know the government's opinion, but my colleagues don't know the meaning of the government. I understand that you are not satisfied with my explanation, so the Assembly in the voting day will declare whether or not I have done the injury. I'm sorry, thank you. (Zoran Shami, from the place: It is not correct that you of the Government do not have... Mr. Shami, we're on, please. We started a debate at that point. Thank you. Mrs. Donka Stancic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Donka Banovic, if you'll excuse me, I apologize to Mrs. Banovic and Mrs. Stancic. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36643	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I'm advertising members' 27th and 31st injuries. Article 31 speaks of the responsibilities of the vice president of the National Assembly, saying: “The vice presidents of the National Assembly are helping the president of the National Assembly to carry out the work of his work. ” This points to Article 27, which states among other things: “The president of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. ” In Article 149, which my colleague Shami advertised, it is clear that the debate in particular should not begin before we get the government's opinion, and MPs who submitted the amendment's opinion on whether the amendment was accepted or rejected. There are very different discussions, mine, and my colleagues who have submitted amendments, compared to whether or not the Government has accepted any amendments or rejected them. When the amendment is accepted, we don't even talk about it. So now we're going to assume that no amendment has been accepted, and then we're going to invest energy to convince the minister who is a representative of the government to accept that amendment. One more thing, I was on that Education Committee, even though I wasn't a member; I'm the only MP who was without being a member of that committee. The other MPs have no idea which minister, as a representative of the government, in that case, accepted or refused. Besides, it's not the government's opinion, it's the Minister of Education's opinion, not to mention we don't have an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36644	Thank you. There is no violation of the provisions of Articles 27 and 31, which you have called upon. Do you want me to read again Article 141 of Article 5, which reads: “If the committees do not deliver reports, or government opinion on the bill, the bill will also be considered without these reports, or opinions. ” There's a minister present, who applied for a word. He is authorized to accept at any moment, says the argument, etc. Minister, do you want to speak? Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36645	Dear fellow Members of the People, I'd like to say a few words first. I told MPs, members of the Committee on the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia which amendments the Government accepts and which amendments the Government does not accept. If there's a difference, there are four amendments to the committees that we've proposed to the government to accept. It was done today during the afternoon. We're technically missing paper. If that's an obstacle to work, then... Let me finish, if that's an obstacle to work, then that's one thing. I am authorised as a representative of the government, Minister of Education, to announce the government's position at this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and it will not differ from what I have already announced to the members of the Committee on the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the course of an explanation of the acceptance, i.e. the non-acceptation of certain amendments, I will say what the Government's position on amendments to Members of Parliament is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36646	Therefore, the Committee on Education report, which you received, clearly indicates which amendments were accepted by both the Committee and the Proposer's representative and which were not accepted by the Committee or by the proposer. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36647	Injury of Article 141. Regardless of what you, Mr. Vice President, have read to us item 5, point 4 states that the National Assembly and the Government provide reports, or opinion, as a rule not less than five days before the date of the meeting of the National Assembly at which the bill is being considered. Of course, we have received a report from the Committee and we know that Mr. Minister is authorized in front of the government to accept certain amendments. However, in the opinion that we should have received by the start of this debate on amendments from the government, in addition to whether or not the amendments were accepted, we also have an explanation for why some were rejected, which is why some were accepted. For example, it is very important for me, as authorized in front of the SRS parliamentary group, to have that argument in front of me so that I can discuss the amendments and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36648	Thank you. No breach of article 141. If you continued, the next point 5 says – unless a report is delivered, the Assembly will discuss the bill. Are you satisfied with this explanation or not? If not, the Assembly will declare in the voting day whether or not I have committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Mr. Shami, you didn't get your word and don't throw it away, please. With this, we'd exhaust everything, hopefully, of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. If anyone... Mrs. Donka Banovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36649	I'm taking the risk of earning a warning, because I'm going to refer to a member we've already called, but you risk getting a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36650	That, of course, is not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. You abuse the right to the word advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, especially when you say that you have already advertised that injury yourself. Thank you. You don't have a word. Mr. Shami answered the word or what? (Zoran Shami, from the place: Mr. Shami is furious. Thank you. So, on Article 2 of the amendment, MP Zoran Popovic submitted. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education did not accept the amendment. Mr Popovic has the word. Here you go. The minister always has the advantage. If you answer the word, you'll get the word right now. The word has Mr. Minister of Education Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36651	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as well as at the session of the Committee on the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will present the Government's position on certain amendments, which we have accepted, which we have not and why we haven't. Namely, the government has accepted amendments from the following MPs, and nine amendments are being made: the amendment of the MPs of Zoran Shami and Alexander Pejcic to Article 5. Proposal for a Law, amendment of the People's MPs Milice Vojić-Markovic and Donke Banovic to Article 8(1). Proposal for a Law, amendment of the People's MPs Milice Vojić-Markovic, Donke Banovic and Zoran Shami to Article 13(2). Proposal for a Law, amendment of MP Dusan Maric to Article 13(2). Proposal for a Law, amendment of the People's MPs Donka Banovic, Zoran Shami and Milice Vojic-Markovic to Article 14(1). Proposal for a Law, amendment of MP Sreta Perić to Article 38th century 1 and 2. Proposal for a law, amendment of MP Sladjan Myaljevic to Article 39(2). Proposal for a law, amendment of MP Radica Jocic to Article 41. Proposal for a law and amendment of MP Slobodan Vukovic to Article 44(1) It's a bill of law. We also proposed to the Committee to adopt four amendments as its own, and then to the Government, which accepted them. It is the Committee's amendments to Article 4. Proposal for a law, to Article 52. Proposal for a law, to Article 21. The draft law and Article 50. It's a bill of law. These are amendments that the government has accepted from the amendments made to the draft law on pre-school education and education. Now a few words about amendments that have not been accepted. There are several reasons why the government could not accept the proposed amendments. Those reasons are next. The largest number of amendments could not be accepted because they do not comply with the Law, i.e. those issues which the amendment treats have already been governed by the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Individually, when MPs call, and to say so, there's nothing to argue about. Another group of reasons: the proposed amendments could not be accepted because they do not comply with other regulations, whether it is provisions that do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, with other education laws in primary and secondary schools and because they do not agree with the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children. There are also amendments that we appreciated were pedagogically justified, but that they cannot be accepted for financial reasons. We said this law does not involve additional financial resources. One number of amendments meant changes in the number of groups subject to preschool education and education. We are on the Committee, my colleagues from the Ministry and I have presented it to the MPs and mentioned why we cannot accept these amendments. Their acceptance would require additional funding, and the government is unable to obtain these funds and that is the reason for the rejection. The following group of reasons refers to the non-acceptance of the three amendments for formal reasons, because the proposed legal solutions are simply more precise, they are better legal-technically arranged and are more celery for us. In the end, there is one group of amendments that we have not accepted for other reasons, whether it is issues that tang two different areas, so we think that the existing solution in the law is more general, more functional, more appropriate, whether it is about amendments that are simply practically not possible, or not applicable. Their acceptance and application would create confusion in the work of institutions of preschool education and education. It's a brief report on the amendments we've accepted and that we haven't. Of course, I will also be free when MPs are exposed to the position of not accepting the amendments and on concrete amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36652	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before I give my word to Mr. Popovic, I'll say something. I completely agree with the point of correctness or inaccuracy. I don't think an objective excuse is that from 9 March to this day we don't get explanations of accepted or unaccepted amendments by the government simply doesn't exist, there's no particularly logical justification. It is a question of the government's relationship to the Assembly, as well as the government's relationship to education. In doing so, I have no idea that I am calling here the present minister in any way, on the contrary, but we hope to change that in the near future. As far as I'm concerned, I think Mr. Shami could be quite right here. Unfortunately, or fortunately, there are no such provisions in the Rules of Procedure. Ms. Jovanovic, vice-president of the Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36653	Mr. Novakovic, I am reporting on the basis of article 27, and regarding article 31, which treats both me and you as vice presidents of the Assembly. Your Article 27. ... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36654	If you'll excuse me, if you've followed, those members have already been, Mrs. Donka Banovic has just advertised. If we're going to respect the Rules of Procedure, you can't get another word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36655	Mr. Novakovic, it's not a permanent injury. I'd like to ask the Deputy Secretary General, Mr. Pudard, and I'm now reporting on the basis of article 104, to explain to you the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, article 100 tells you nicely that the MP appears for a breach of the Rules of Procedure after it has been done. I'm not answering on the basis of Articles 27 and 31. You don't think one MP, Mr. Shami, Mrs. Banovic, Mrs. Jocic, is reporting by a member of the Rules of Procedure, and then no one is allowed for the next five hours? If you are interpreting the Rules of Procedure, then you must seek legal assistance, first of all the deputy secretary general who will tell you that I am right and that you should not have turned off my microphone. I now advertise Article 104 because you in some way have violated the dignity of the National Assembly in this way, because you, just like me, are a member of the Children's Rights Task Force. It is my duty to inform the other MPs that you and I have been in a privileged position compared to all other MPs, and to Mrs Radica Jocic, who is our authorised representative and even members of the Education Committee. We, as Mr. Minister knows, as members of the Children's Rights Task Force, have considered this bill on pre-school education and education a long time ago, so that we knew what the Government wanted and what it would not accept. Now our colleagues who are not members of this task force, who are not members of the Education Committee, who can only today learn from Mr. Minister, not on the basis of a written report from the Government, but on the basis of his authentic presentation, what the Government wants, and what it does not. Therefore, you are obliged first of all to defend not the position of the Government here, but the position of the MPs of the people, and not to bring, after all, me or myself into a privileged position because we had the opportunity to hear the views of the Government earlier than the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36656	No breach of the Rules of Procedure, especially Article 104. So on 9 March, the Committee delivered to all MPs a report that the minister only repeated at today's session. I hope, finally, that we move on to the amendment to Article 2. National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36657	Article 2(1) of which I have submitted the amendment reads: “The activity of preschool education and education is an activity of direct social interest and is being realized as a public service. “ On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment suggesting that the word “direct ” be replaced by“ special. ” Directly and especially not the same. I think the formulation that pre-school education and education are a matter of particular social importance reflects more precisely the meaning of this bill than does the formulation proposed by the Government. I appeal to the Minister... Minister, please, I urge you to reconsider and accept this logical amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36658	Thank you, Mr. Popovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sasa Maksimovic and Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Mr. Maksimovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 2(4) submitted by my colleague Jelena Budimirovic and I complete Article 2. Proposal for a law on preschool education and education, which defines the effectiveness of preschool education, since it also provides for the part that this bill, at least in this part, did not foresee, which are institutions of social protection, such as children's housing institutions distracted in development, children's homes and youth without parental ageing and childcare institutions. For information, there are currently a thousand twenty-two children without parents in Serbia. A third of those kids make babies and children up to three years old. A particular problem is that children are distracted by development, for which the state, regardless of the intensity to shut down their homes, will find it really difficult to find a solution. The Serbian Progressive Party believes it is necessary for these categories of children to be covered by this law. I will remind you of your words, Mr. Minister – the adoption of the proposed law on preschool education and education will give children a better basis for starting school education. I think it's for some media, not to mention them now, you said. For what reason, Mr. Minister, are you disciplining children? Children without parental ageing or children distracted in development are certainly not responsible for their position. I would understand that you admit that the writer of this law has forgotten about these children or that you have a different plan, but if that plan exists, it is obviously unknown to the public. As long as you do not accept the amendment or confirm that there is a plan to address children's problems in health care institutions, this, Mr. Minister, could be considered discrimination, and this could be discrimination in the worst form of discrimination conducted by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36660	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel it is necessary to accept the amendment explained by Mr Maximovic. In addition to this, I would like to point out, in the context of the debate on the basic provisions of the law, several things that are very important for the functioning of preschool institutions. First, nowhere in the bill mentions a place where children stay, in terms of minimum conditions, but only age and normative by age. In practice, we have a situation that is normable for children from two to three years of age or for children from four and a half to five and a half years of twenty-two, and they live, for example, in a room of 30 square meters, and often there is a smaller square. In such rooms children feed, have their activities, sleep etc. This means that there should also be four or five tables, twenty-five chairs, that there is room between toys and there are twenty beds for rest, which reduces children's safety. Therefore, the square of space, which is both important and necessary as a standard to be prescribed by law, is neglected to be part of the criteria to enter the statutes and preschool institutions when educational groups are formed. Another important thing, on the proposal of a pediatrician in kindergarten, children with developmental disorders are enrolled. This is not controversial, because it will help these children, in such a way that the group stimulates them, to see some progress with them. But what must be taken care of? The reduction in the number of children in the group is not any extenuating circumstance, because of educational staff who are not educated, the absence of developmental groups in kindergartens, due to the unadjustment of the institutions themselves, so the educators must, for example, carry children. If you have an educator who is 40% of his time in a group and sometimes longer, and also a child with developmental disorders (not to mention these terrible health problems that are possible and exist), then the question is, who is the inclusion of such children good? The educator is unable to provide adequate training and assistance to such a child and is unable to carry out training, educational and educational work with other children in the way the law requires. It often happens, and the law gives that possibility that there may be two children in the group with developmental disturbances. All of this requires different support from the legislator, unreserved, when it comes to children with developmental disorders, because these children must have full support for both states and societies. The third thing that is extremely important, as regards pre-school funding, so far the law and the regulation have given the possibility that educational staff can have coefficients up to the level of education coefficients. In this way local self-governments determine the coefficients and price of work as they wish, treating them most often as public services, so we have come to the situation that in some municipalities educators have a salary of 20,000 dinars, and in some, 40,000 dinars, all for the same professional equipment, education and the same work they do. In local self-governments that are more financially stable, where the founders' political will exists, salaries are like education, for example, in Belgrade. In most parts of Serbia, unfortunately, the situation is much worse, as if everyone is neglecting the fact that employees in preschool institutions care about our children, which must be considered because such a situation is unacceptable. Preschool institutions are considered the first link in education. It is known that 70% of all personality development ends at the age of seven. Development is permanent, it can't be improved later, it stays for life. It has been scientifically proven that what a child misses by the age of seven can never again be compensated. Therefore, at the beginning of this debate, I urge you in particular to consider these topics and suggestions and to find a way to implement them in this law, perhaps through rapid amendments and amendments to the law, because they cannot be put into the existing proposal in a simple way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36662	Four minutes and fifty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36663	I'd like to say a few words right away. Maybe some questions are being repeated. We could not accept the amendment of counterpart Zoran Popovic because the proposed solution was in accordance with Article 137. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the amendment of the People's MPs Sasa Maksimovic and Jelena Budimirovic, I must say that this issue has been resolved by the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Educational System, and that is Article. Paragraphs 27 and 69. When it comes to the number of children who are in groups, this law has taken one step forward because the Law on Social Care for Children is prescribed a larger number of children within the group, and we have already reduced the number of children in individual groups. That, according to us, is progress and that must be known. There's one more thing. I said that the Committee has accepted certain amendments; one of the amendments that the Committee has accepted refers precisely to the personal income of preschool staff, because it is an objectively large problem. We wanted to find a solution to where the lower limit will be made so that all the employees of pre-school institutions in relation to the degree of professional equipment held at the level of Serbia as a whole have adequate incomes, and to give local self-governments the opportunity, if they have money, to raise salaries. I'm going back on the subject of the number of children in groups. The law also provides for a solution that if a child with special needs is found in a group, the number of children in the group is reduced, just so that all children get the attention they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36664	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted the 2nd amendment. The word is Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36665	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia should be accepted, and Mrs. Banovic will explain why. Now just let me explain a little bit of the DSS position and my position from the beginning of the debate on this point. Of course, it's not that we resent you as chairman that you've violated the Rules of Procedure. You didn't break it. It's also not about us resenting the present minister of education, because he did his part of the job. But we resent the government of the Republic of Serbia, which you have well noticed, for two reasons. First, because she didn't deliver this opinion to us exclusively and just out of laziness, because I don't see any political reason not to. Secondly, because it shows disrespect for this parliament. I resent, I apologize to the ruling majority, I understand that they support the government, it's all nice and wonderful, but I resent them not to defend the integrity of this parliament and allow the government to behave as it is. I repeat, Mr. Minister, this is the Prime Minister's present representative, obviously not calling upon the government. Therefore, he is not responsible for this. Now I'm really asking for the support of all MPs, and the ruling parties and opposition, that these things don't happen in principle, because there's no reason to happen. If a week ago here the Minister of Education at the Education Committee said the Ministry's position, so also the Government, by the logic of things, we all know how things are solved in this field, then there's no reason that the Government couldn't make a single report on three sides or five pages, which would have sent to the MPs. That's why I'm angry, not because I don't think Mr. Obradovic here will know why he accepted something, why he didn't accept something. He can say that, but the government's behavior shows what the government thinks of the Parliament, which the same government has chosen, so that same government may be changing tomorrow. Please, what I'm saying is not directed at all, I repeat, according to the chairman, nor to Mr. Minister; it is directed towards one government that in the most trivial matters is shown to be irresponsible. Not to say that in much more serious matters, she's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36666	One minute and twenty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36667	Dear colleague Shami, please, and you and the other MPs, when it comes to this matter, do not blame the government. It's not the government's fault, it's us at the Ministry and I as a minister. The government doesn't have anything to do with this, and it doesn't need to be unearthed to share the guilt it really doesn't have. Simply, there were certain technical reasons and it was announced that we would hold another session of the second law. We had an extraordinary committee session today. Not getting a report from the government until today, it's not the government's fault, it's us at the Ministry and, of course, my responsibility as a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36668	The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36669	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Before I move on specifically to the amendment, it seems to me that my colleague Shami is a little more than I am. I don't blame you so much for breaking the Rules of Procedure because we have several members who are contradictory. You read to us article 141 and we are a member of 142. When you want to interpret a phenomenon differently, then we can grab on to some of the members and be right. However, I resent you because I consider you to be the vice president of this house, so you are also my vice president, although I am an MP for the opposition, and I consider it your duty to protect your dignity and good work in this house. I would expect you to say – there is no need, there is no hurry, whether the debate will begin in detail at 5 p.m. or tomorrow at 10 p.m., so there is really no rush; my fellow Members need an opinion, so they know how to explain the amendments. But it didn't happen. I resent the minister for being in our skin, or for many years he was an MP, and he knows what it's like to be an MP, not to be easy to write amendments, not to explain them, without knowing what you're coming from. So, I'm not as tolerant as my colleague Shami, I really resent these things that the Rules of Procedure don't regulate, so human. Article 2 discusses the work of preschool education and education. My colleagues and I have submitted an amendment to Section 4. The proposal reads: “The work of preschool education is carried out in preschool, and it can be carried out exclusively in school, in accordance with the Law and this Law. ” What's our intervention? It consists of suggesting that after the word "school"... Hence, at school it can also be performed in other places that are adequately equipped and meet the legal requirements. Later, some members discuss preschool activity as well as elsewhere. But I think it should have been a possibility in this, too, to tell the general, the member, who's talking about it. So the law is not consistent. You in one member (seems to be a member of 21) even say that preschool program can be achieved in a traveling kindergarten, and it says in brackets that it is a dedicatedly equipped bus. If there's no other solution, it's some kind of solution. But shouldn't local self-government be encouraged, if there is a local community in a village and there is a room that is not used, or a culture home has a room that is not used, that it is adequately and legally equipped to be used? I'm afraid local self-government doesn't estimate that they're traveling kindergartens, although that's a solution if there's no other solution, a solution to resort to. I think local self-government should be encouraged to equip some other space, where it will not be about building a completely new facility, but to reorganize an existing facility.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36670	Four minutes and fifteen seconds from the time of the authorised representative. Authorised representatives on this agenda are: Mr Nikola Krpić – PUPS; Mrs Zlata Đeric – Parliament Group New Serbia; Mr Nebojsa Rangelović – LDP; Mr Miletic Mihajlović – SPS-JS; Mr Milan Knezevic – Forward Serbia; Mrs Donka Banović – DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; Mrs Snezana Stojanović-Plasić – G17 Plus; Mrs Radica Jocic – SRS and Mr Jon Magda – ZES. National MP Radica Jocic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36671	Mr. Chairman, I have information that we no longer have a direct transmission of this session, although it is not yet 6:00 p.m., we are not informed of that, but I'm not surprised at that. When education is in order and in this assembly we discuss the laws of this area at night, we work on Sundays, we work on Saturday afternoons and noons, when there are some important games, when there are some Olympics and the like, so that this very important activity, which all Serbian citizens are certainly interested in because they have children, if they have no one else, has this kind of treatment in the National Assembly. Besides, it's interesting that this paper, as Mr. Minister said, which obviously doesn't have time to hear everything, because obviously it's not done properly, or that everyone has received a government report... There is a big difference between technical paper and the government report, which has very clear reasons why something was accepted and something was not accepted. All of us who have submitted amendments need to get directly to the minister, so at the same time, there's confusion, Mr. Magda talking, I'm asking. It's an absolutely inadequate way to work on such important laws. I'm asking you as chairman today, from Mr. Minister, and from the gentlemen of the Ministry to really commit ourselves to this area today in the right way, not to make this mess from the very beginning. Only submit an amendment to Article 3(2). You have in the law provided that closer conditions and ways of achieving nutrition, care and preventive health care are prescribed jointly by the Minister responsible for Health Affairs and the Minister responsible for Educational Affairs. We believe this concept has long been overcome. After all, the concept that preschool education... The right to manage this important area by 2003 had three ministries and three ministers managed this area. This concept has been abandoned because of its inefficientness and grotesqueness. There's no reason for you to keep him in pieces now, smaller or larger. We have suggested that closer conditions and ways to achieve food, care and preventive healthcare are prescribed by the Minister of Health. He's in charge of it, and he's completely expert on it. There is no reason for the issue of care, preventive health care to be prescribed by the Minister of Education; he has his share in this business and should keep it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36672	Two minutes and fifty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36673	I think we opposition MPs should do our job. We wrote these amendments precisely because we have an idea to fix this law. The fact that there's no transmission, that tonight at night, when all the kids are sure to watch the program, and especially their parents, who don't have other jobs because they're not going to work tomorrow, so I can after twelve, when it's transferred and Mr. Tijanic let go of this session in a delayed transmission... We'll do our job right, defend our amendments the way we thought we should when we wrote them. "The closer conditions and way of achieving social protection are agreedly prescribed by the minister responsible for social policy affairs and the minister." You didn't write which, by the way, is the Minister of Education, because it's about this law. That's your suggestion. Again, we come to an inefficient system; why should social security issues solve the minister of education? He's the Minister of Education, he needs to solve what's in his domain. That's why we're... I again refer to the concept that we have abandoned, not just us, but have left many in the world. Because of the efficiency of the system, and above all because of jurisdiction, please, for this question is the competent minister of social protection, not the minister of education, let's not put him where he can't solve anything. Thank you. Education has enough problems that the Minister of Education should deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36674	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment is based on Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Education Committee. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, the Prosecutor's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36675	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, I would also like to address the citizens of Serbia, but I just don't know if from "good evening" or "good morning", we don't know when this transfer will take place, the DSS MP group in the debate in principle said that this law is important for future generations and in this sense has processed this law by proposing a number of amendments that would change the text of the law. Article 4 refers to the objectives and tasks of preschool education and education. In point 1), point 2, reads: “Creation of conditions for quality life, game, learning, and so on... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We have suggested that Article 4(2), after the word "game", be added to the game, and after the word "teaching", the words "participation" are added. The rest of the text remains the same. We wanted to bring this member of the law into line with the UN Convention on the Rights and Protection of the Child. We know that the basic four pillars and the Convention on the Rights and Protection of Children are survival, protection, development and participation. We think that the amendment has been exceeded and established and that it should be accepted. Mr. Minister, think again, because this law thus complies with the UN Convention on the Rights and Protection of the Child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36676	Thank you too, Mr. Paicic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment is President Donka Banovic. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36677	Article 5 speaks about the use of language in educational work. We have proposed an amendment to item 2. It reads: "For members of the national minority, educational and educational work is done in the native language, and can be bilingually or in Serbian if at least 50% of parents, or guardians of children, are identified. “ We suggest supplementing this attitude, provided that there is an organized education in elementary school. Why? I specifically had children here in mind of Roma minorities because very often it happens that, for example, they speak very badly Serbian when they go to preschool prep. If the group decides that complete work takes place in the Roma language, there is a danger that instead of being better prepared for school, the children will be less prepared, as there are very few elementary schools where teaching is performed in the Roma language. When the debate on this amendment was on the Committee for Education Assistant for Preschool and Primary Mr. Popov said – how, there is a primary school in Obrenovac. Yes, in Obrenovac and what other cities? Instead of being prepared for preschool, let's talk about, that year, the better the child prepares, among other things, and the better he masteres the language in which basic school classes, or Serbian, will take place in this way, we are making a bear service to those children. Not to mention how many (and there will be more) children from the readmission, the Roma nationality, so we get a child (these are real-life situations, these have been happening in Nis for years) who do not know Serbian, and they speak excellently, for example. German. There is a need for teaching to take place in Serbian, in order for education to take place. There have been some remarks that this intervention on this member is such that it narrows the rights of national minorities. That's not true. I don't understand why you refused this at all, as if you're not aware that there are not so many elementary schools in Serbia where classes are performed in the Roma language and that these children will be in a worse position when they start in the first grade of primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36678	Thank you. One minute from the authorized representative's time. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The bill in Article 5(2) reads: "For members of the national minority, educational work is done in the mother tongue, and can be bilingually or in Serbian, if at least 50% of parents, or children's guardians, are defined. “ You have forgotten that you have predicted an inclusion. When we talk about it, we have a group of kids who use sign language and you simply didn't remember in this law that in any way give them the rights that belong to them. As a result, we felt that it was necessary to add a new, third position to Article 5, Article 2, which should read: “The educational work with children using sign language is achieved according to a tailored or specific programme and is carried out in sign language and using the means of that language, depending on the needs and possibilities of children. “ This way, by inserting this attitude, virtually all the following attitudes change order and become attitudes 4, 5. etc. I think this amendment should be accepted. From this I see, it says – the Education Committee did not accept the amendment. I would like to hear from the minister the reason why this amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36680	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36681	Thank you. The technique's starting to work. I'll be happy to answer, I've spoken to the board, and I'll speak now. This amendment is not accepted because this issue is governed by the Law on the basic system of education and education, Article 9(4).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36682	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36683	This explanation that you have now given for the previous amendment is, at the very least, unusual. Why? Because many of the solutions in this bill are prescribed from the basic, or roof law, as we call it. It would not be normal for this law in many parts not to copy that basic, roof law, so this argument is not acceptable. We propose to add a new position in this Article 5, which speaks about the use of the language, saying: "The way in which educational education is achieved bilingually, as well as the work in the language of the national minority, is prescribed by the minister of education," i.e. by the Minister of Education. You in this article, as it is given, have not stated anywhere who prescribed it, and it is logical that it is prescribed by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36684	The time used is a minute from the parliamentary group. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36685	I would just further explain what I said, that this question was arranged by Article 9(4). Law on the basic system of education and education. The position of the 4th member reads: “Employmental work for persons using sign language, i.e. special letter... “ etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36686	Thank you. Members of the 5th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36687	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From what we've heard from the minister, this amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36688	I'm sorry. The proposing representative and the Education Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Sure, if you want a word, please just sign in one more time, for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36689	If we were a little pragmatic, if we had paper, government opinion, maybe I wouldn't be commenting on this right now. We have submitted the amendment to Article 5. The draft law on pre-school education and education, with a new stance that reads: "The way and conditions of achieving the educational and educational work programme in a foreign language is prescribed by the minister. “ Just what Mrs. Donka Banovic said, it is necessary to apostrophe that the minister is the one who will specify the way in which the language of the national minorities is used and that this is his absolute right as an in-house organ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36690	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36691	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 5. The draft law on pre-school education refers to the use of a language in which educational and educational work is carried out in pre-school institutions. Officially, the Serbian language is in use, except for members of national minorities, whose member allows the use of the native language; or, if bilingual teaching is, in case 50% of parents and more say so. It is also possible to perform part of the preschool education program or the whole program in a foreign language. We see that this Article 5 gives as much as four different possibilities for using language. If each educational institution were allowed to decide in particular which language the programme would be implemented in, it would be extremely irrational and impractical. I therefore suggested adding a new position 5, which would read: “To the part of the statutes of the preschool institution, which determines the language in which educational and educational work is carried out, consent is given to the Ministry. “ We feel that not every preschool institution should individually decide which language the programme will be implemented in, but that consent should be given to the Ministry as a competent institution. A short time ago, Mr. Minister, when he explained why some amendments were rejected, said among other things that some were not in line with the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, others did not comply with the Constitution. I would add that this position 5, which I propose to insert into the law, is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'll remind you, Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly states that in official use in the Republic of Serbia there is a Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter, while the official use of other languages and letters is governed by a special law, which must be in accordance with the Constitution. I'd like to say a few more words. In such situations, when some others are used instead of Serbian, there may be some additional problems in practice. Some of them would be preschool education programmes, which must be in line with both the National Educational Council recommendations and the local community requirements specific to these local environments. I would ask the question – in which language would pre-school classes be performed at the so-called so-called school. traveling kindergartens or dedicatedly equipped buses, if, say, 50% of parents want it to be a Serbian language, and 50% of minority language, then what do they give priority to? Or, say, how do you conduct inspection and pedagogical and professional surveillance of these institutions? The problem in these cases, when another language is used besides Serbian, is specific and therefore I believe that the resolution ministry should give the final word on whether a preschool institution will work in Serbian or some other language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36692	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36693	Thank you, Madam President. The Honorable Presidency, MPs, ministers, as you can see, are DSS MPs and how well they have worked on this law. I'm sorry that, Mr. Minister, you only accepted five of our amendments, although you could have all the thirty, as we suggested. Namely, we have proposed another amendment to Article 6, paragraph 4, which reads (it is about records and public documents): "On the basis of the records it runs, a preschool institution, i.e. a school that implements pre-school preparation programme (hereinafter referred to as pre-school pre-school prep programme), the issue of public documents on the attending pre-school programme, and that is: a translation of the child's transition from one pre-school institution to another school, i.e. the school, which implements the pre-school pre-school programme, and the assurance of attending the preparatory pre-school programme. “ We asked that the word “trust ” be replaced by“ confidence in the completed preschool preparation program. ” For what? In fact, many members of the Roma population are enrolling children and thus providing social assistance. To motivate them to continue to go to school, we ask that the text of article 6 stands – confidence of the completed preschool preparation program. There are many schools for primary adult education where the largest beginners are from the Roma population. I expect you to accept this amendment, for this very reason that I have explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36694	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36695	Dear colleague, I have no doubt about your good intentions and the intentions of your MP group regarding the amendment that you have submitted, but I think this is about one fundamental difference, which we may not see well, either we or you, but we don't want the preschool program to be implemented and it has the dimension of the knowledge check, because then maybe it would be to stop someone from being a first-class student. Wait, here's your formulation - confidence in preschool completed... In our opinion, the word "completed" implies a certain check, and then the question is, what is the essence of the preschool preparation programme. I think most people in education under the pre-school pre-school program mean part of education where a child is socialized and prepared to start, of course, and learn, and the belief that a pre-school prep program gives him the basis to be a first-class student. We think that this kind of solution might make one obstacle for going to school. Perhaps it would be a limiting factor for members of that community. Maybe we're right, maybe we're wrong, but we appreciated your amendment this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36696	Mr. Pejcic has a word, since the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36697	You, Mr. Minister, have noted that this is how you want to socialize certain children. So a better quality would be socialization if they finish the preschool prep program, the time to finish it. There is the intention of certain people to enroll children just to achieve a social supplement and a child supplement. So, we hereby condition them that their children complete this preparatory period and thus socialize.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36698	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36699	Since this is a fundamental amendment, I think we and the minister should try to understand each other. We didn't write here that there should be a passed, nor is there an exam to be passed, that we understand each other, neither in the basic law nor in this law. So we're not in other positions. We just want to motivate parents and people who work in education, and ministers and us MPs to work on a greater coverage of children who go into preschool prep. Don't let me deny you if I'm telling you the facts and data from the analysis of how many of our children are covered by this. We think it's about 95%, but we only have 60% of children who attend preschool programs at the legal minimum of time. It is those groups that are minority, who are vulnerable, who really need to attend this programme, who attend it in such a small and negligible percentage that it is our task to allow them to attend legally and to have a greater scope. That's why I think we wrote very precisely here that it's a time frame; that the weather ends, even with a minimum number of hours. It's our idea, and I think we got it right. You may not have quite understood our amendment, but that's why I thought we needed that paper, as you say, to see how you understood our amendment. We're asking that the time program be completed, not the exam to be passed, so that counts. Because that exam doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36700	The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36701	Thank you, colleague Vojić-Markovic. All that you've said shows, in my opinion, that this solution to the law is absolutely meaningful. The solution in the law is: “Consuasion of attending a preschool preschool programme, ” and you suggest that it be deleted and replaced by the words“ assurance of completion... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” If it is the belief of attending, then of course it has been attended; and the end of it can mean something else. That's why we don't think the amendment can be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36702	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36703	We're just insisting that it's not what -- I'm going to preschool, I've been seven days, I've got confidence, and now I'm calm. And we're not asking that anyone who doesn't get that kind of confidence can't go to first grade, that would be a cartoon of what you're trying to tell us. We're asking that he at least be a minimum number of classes in that preschool prep program. That's why we think our solution is better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36704	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36705	Since some pieces of the whole sentence are always missing in these conversations, it is said – there is a record of attendance. It can't be said that someone attended without being. If there are abuses, that's another question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36706	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36707	I think we're really having a fundamental discussion right now and we should keep going in that direction. There's a record, that's right. Are you going to tell me that whoever's far behind won't have the confidence that he attended the preparation program? Of course not. So we're absolutely right when we tell you – make it possible for children, make a parent who doesn't want to deal with his child properly, make him attend the preparation program. It benefits both the child and the parent, and the Ministry and the state of Serbia. That's our idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36708	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, 97% of children attend.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36709	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36710	The minister's obviously making a cartoon out of what we're talking about right now. It's true that 95% attends, but I want to tell you that we're talking about vulnerable groups here and that it's very important for us that exactly the ones that are in that percentage of 95% that are covered by 40, 37, 60% are covered by this coverage of 90% or 95%. You say – 95% attend, and whether they attended an annual programme of nine months, whether the minimum annual programme was attended, you do not know. In those 95%, everything goes together, then the dwarves. We're interested in special groups of children, because they should be covered by this program, they're profiting from this. Your percentages, my percentages are not interested in a Roma child who did not attend this program and has a problem in the first grade in any way adapting to the first class and its requirements. The percentages are that you and I are waving at this pay phone, but they're not real in real life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36711	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mr. Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36712	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I would very much like to have an explanation in front of me for not accepting the amendment. Unfortunately, I don't have one. Our idea was to fix this member of the law, i.e. Article 2, that other documentation was kept permanently, especially when it comes to the parent books of enrolled children, the books of the teacher's work, and so on. We think these are very important documents. We live in the 21st century today, Mr. Minister, and there is no need for huge space, there are other methods of keeping documentation (disks, filming of certain documents) for future generations, about the work of educators, the number of enrolled children, etc. But we have no explanation for why the amendment was rejected, and I think that's very important. On the other hand, Madam President, before you arrived, there was a very interesting debate. We asked a question at the beginning of the debate in particular about this law, which is why we don't have a government report. In that half, Mr. Vice President, whom I don't currently see here in the O.R., quoted the last position of member 141 and explained that it was allowed. It is allowed by that member. Article 149 says exactly what the government's obligation is. What happened? It happened that Mr. Vice President simply "burned" this document called the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. For him, there is nothing outside of article 141. That's why we're coming into this kind of debate, because we don't have an explanation, we don't know why we're refusing the amendment. We have a serious problem. It is not the first time that such a rough force is applied, that the Rules of Procedure are interpreted as the corresponding majority. We warn you of some things that are clearly written in the Rules of Procedure. You know, letters can be burned, anything can be done, but you can't block the way and the way democracy is achieved. That's the essence of this story. You can't do anything by force. You can, but it's a question of how far. We appeal to the Rules of Procedure, to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the word is denied when the Rules of Procedure is broken; and when one who is the legislator of the Law does not respect this National Assembly, he demeans it, completely dissuases it by his inaction, then no importance is attached to it. And the very fact that there is no transmission, you know, that someone will be watching in two, three or four hours, tells about how the executive rule has to do with the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36713	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. The proposing representative and the Education Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36714	I just wanted to thank you for finding a way to accept the amendment and to draw your attention to those we have endured, and you have not accepted it. I'm telling you, they're quality and try to find a way to accept some more. I'm sure the law will be better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36715	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36716	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, representatives of the government, although this law has been done for nine years, systematically analyzing it, we see that there are some shortcomings. Namely, the DSS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 9(1), which says: "The local self-government unit establishes a preschool institution for at least five and a maximum of 100 educational groups, in accordance with the Act on Preschool Networks. “ We think that because of quality and rational teaching we should reduce it to fifty, because these are the conditions only, and this should be prescribed by a special act, for the capital of Belgrade, possibly Novi Sad. In fact, certain local self-governments abuse the funds you send them and educators who deal with this problem are not motivated. That day I spoke, I'm talking about a case in Leskovac, with the director of this facility, who said her educators hadn't received a salary in six months. I received information from you that you regularly service and transfer funds towards local self-government. It's up to you, Mr. Minister, to check where those funds are going. I expect you to respond adequately, perhaps by some budgetary inspection, to check out these shortcomings in the institutions. As for the amendments, I think that the amendment has exceeded and that you should accept it, and by a special regulation, as regards educational groups, prescribe for the capital of Belgrade, or maybe Novi Sad, Nis or larger cities where you can organize up to a hundred educational groups. In the smaller environments, it can take up to 50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36717	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36718	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 11 reads: “A foreign state, a foreign legal or natural person, can establish a preschool institution to implement a preschool programme, in accordance with the law. “ It’s attitude 1. Article 2 equates their right to establish pre-school institutions under the same legal conditions as local self-government, domestic legal or physical persons. I repeat what I said in the debate in principle. The Serbian Radical Party believes that other states, foreign legal and physical persons should not be allowed to establish pre-school institutions in the Republic of Serbia. For that reason, I have proposed to delete this member of the bill. We believe that children in Serbia are already too exposed to terror by the United States and other developed Western countries, primarily through electronic media, publications, and most of all through cartoons and video games. This terror leaves lasting consequences for our children's health, especially their mental health. Witnesses that we have an increase in physical violence in the youngest population. I believe that by adopting this solution by the government, it is a bear service to this society and to future generations of Serbian children. Although there is no television transmission, I am taking the opportunity to draw attention to the illegal attempt by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Environment to open up a storage site of hazardous waste in the former military facility above Krnjev near the Great Plana, in a populated place of 4,000 inhabitants, near the village school, and I will talk more about it tomorrow when the debate on student and student standards is held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36719	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Shami. The proposing representative and the Education Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36720	Thank you, Madam President. I just want to point out to the motionor, or to Mr. Minister, who, on behalf of the Ministry, has proposed this law, how much there is no consistency in his arguments. You accepted this amendment, even though what we wrote was completely contained in the roof law. When we called you out of the roof law, you didn't bring some other stuff in here, then you said you didn't bring it in because it was contained in the roof law. We think it's very important that what concerns sensitive groups really makes sense, that these sensitive groups from what it says get a profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36721	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The proposing representative and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the draft law. Would you like a word, Mr. Maric? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36722	At first, I would like to thank Mr. Minister and his associates for their goodwill. I think they did the right thing. I'll say a few words for the citizens of Serbia that they know what this is about. There was formerly a practice and legal obligation to favour children of working parents when enrolling in kindergarten, and this obligation was also contained in the proposal for this law. It's a solution that has lagged behind from the past, as we call them, communist times. It is justifiable that parents who work have no one to look after their children. I, in the light of the amendment, stated that this explanation is not acceptable because those parents who do not have permanent employment must in any case fight for existence, must find occasional seasonal or daily jobs and simply are not in a position to spend time with their children. I felt that they had the exact same right as the parents who were in a permanent working relationship to apply under the same conditions for the housing of children in kindergarten. I am once again pleased that the Ministry has accepted the explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36723	Thank you. The 14th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Zoran Shami and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The proposing representative and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36724	I think it's a good thing the government had the ear to accept this amendment. It is about children from sensitive groups without proof of residence and other personal documents. This is, by the way, a subject that should be discussed more seriously. I know there's a model of law on people who are without ID. Recently, on the Committee on Poverty Reduction and presented this model of the law. There are a large number of people living in Serbia without having any personal documents. They can't have IDs, they don't trust citizenship. This is a very serious topic. There are a lot of people, our fellow citizens, or our citizens who live daily with these problems, and can't get those rights they might otherwise possess some kind of personal document. This problem will become even more up-to-date as groups arrive on the basis of a readmission contract signed by Serbia with many European countries. This problem should be more comprehensively addressed by some other law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36725	Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. The draft law on pre-school education and education, which reads in Section 2, adds the words "after a parent's advice obtained". Article 19 refers to specific and specialised programmes under the pre-school programme, in order to make it clearer, recreational and children's holidays, language and culture of national minorities, cultural activities, etc. In order to avoid any institution interpreting it as fit with the process of achieving and funding specific and specialised programmes, it is necessary that these conditions be prescribed by the minister, but after the parent's advice has been obtained. The intention is to adapt this amendment to the general need for the parent’s advice to give the minister suggestions on some programmes and how these conditions should be formulated. Many things are better to prevent at first. We are witnessing that because of various abuses of recreational activities and child rest, the Ministry of Education has been accused of inaction, i.e. silence over certain cases which have been revealed in the daily press or in other media. Abuses took place because the parent’s advice was bypassed, so some arrangements were made in the personal direction of the director or manager, with some more favourable and more practical options being deliberately bypassed. The advice of parents can provide valuable suggestions and ideas on how to get the best solution, which the minister will either respect or reject. What parents encounter in working with institutions that care about their children and their education and education is certainly the best way to find the best solution for one thing, which is to prescribe conditions on how to achieve and finance specialised programmes that will satisfy both institutions and parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36727	On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 5, Article 142 is amended as follows: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Education Committee. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the 22nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36728	I thank you, Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, I expected you, Mr Minister, to accept this amendment to Article 22. The DSS Group has responded to this article in item 2, which reads (for the sake of citizens, it is a preparatory preschool programme): "The preparatory preschool programme for children not covered by the regular programme of pre-school institutions is organised in pre-school institutions, exclusively at school, in accordance with the law and statute of pre-school institutions, i.e. schools. “ We think, Mr. Minister, that in rural areas where we don’t have schools and we have cultural homes, we can adapt certain rooms, so that children don’t walk ten miles [10 km] to kindergartens or preschools. Our villages remain empty, many people emigrate. It is good that you accept this amendment to stop migration. Among other things, this amendment stops migration and allows children from some rural environments to be part of those preschool institutions right in their place, not to go miles and miles away, to another village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36729	Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Maksimovic and Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Miss Jelena Budimirovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36730	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my colleague Sasa Maksimovic and I, on behalf of the SNS, submitted an amendment to Article 28, which refers to the time frames in which the preschool programme is being implemented. The legislator predicted that the preschool programme would take place during the working year from 1 September of the current year until 31 August of the following year. We also consider the Serbian Progressive Party's position that our solution is more acceptable, and we proposed that the preschool programme be implemented during the working year from 1 September of the current year until 30 June of the following year. Therefore, our solution provides that in the period from 1 July to 31 August, the work is to be carried out under a special, summer programme by the managing authority of the pre-school institution and, in the opinion of the parent advice previously provided and with the consent of the Founder’s competent authority, to the planned material resources for its implementation, in accordance with the law. We agree that the aim of this law should be to encourage intellectual, social and emotional development of children, but we also think that it is necessary for children to have room for rest. Children need time to play freely, without pressure and organization, to have good physical, emotional and social development. Scientists say parents fall into the trap of ambition to make their children perfect, but it can be counterproductive and very stressful for preschool children. Therefore, the legislator provided for compulsory pre-school education and education for 365 working hours, leaving no possibility for children to rest, since Article 25 of this law provides that the child may be left out of teaching only in exceptional cases. I urge you once again to accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36731	Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36732	By amendment to Article 30, which was rejected, the Serbian Radical Party has asked to reduce the number of children per group. I will give you just one of my parents' opinions: “Many of my friends chose private kindergartens because groups are smaller, teachers are easier to take care of seven or eight children than 20. We were not able to allocate up to 100 euros per month for kindergarten, as long as it takes for a private kindergarten. Also, we believe in the state system of working with children in preschool institutions, but we are not comfortable when because of the large number of children, our child cannot be devoted. “ In many kindergartens, the number of children per group is much higher than the current law provides. It is clear to all of us that in such cases the reduction of groups is possible only by building new objects. In many cities, kindergartens have not been built in the last 20 years, and about 30 years. One of the brighter examples is, for example, in Arangelovac where the Serbian Radical Party was in power. During that term, two kindergartens were built. In principle debate, the minister replied that private kindergartens built by the Ministry are not required to check the origin of the money. Of course I mean a kindergarten owned by Lana Popovic, a mistress, now already known drug lord, Darko Saric. Mr. Minister, parents and how interested the origins of the couples that are being built on kindergartens are, especially if local government washes some money through such investments. How, for example, am I not interested in the origin of the money that is being arranged in Bela Palanca courtyard at the “Dragica Lalović” kindergarten? If the government has twice lets the wastewater treatment plant into which a million euros have been invested, and it still does not work, I express my reasonable suspicion that such an investment can also serve the authorities for malfeasance. You can't convince me that the Ministry isn't obliged to check the origin of all the money invested in preschool institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36733	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36734	If the Ministry of Education had the authority to check all financial transactions in this country, then there would be no Ministry of Education, but a different name. I said in the last session, when we talked about the laws in principle, that we were regulating the standards and meeting those standards, and we're really not in a situation, there are other state authorities that are doing this, to examine the origin of the money and to see where that money comes from, and if, of course, it's illegally acquired, to take appropriate measures. When it comes to the number of children, I agree that the best way to take care of our children who were in preschool institutions was to increase the number of institutions, but you yourself said that for many years in a large number of municipalities, local self-government did not come about, and the reasons are economical. We did not hide on the Committee or in the principle debate our position, and this time I am telling you – we do not believe that this amendment does not have a pedagogical basis, we believe that we cannot accept it because there is simply no financial possibility for its realization. Since I talked about it once, but I didn't mention the numbers, I'd like to tell you that this law still takes a step forward in relation to existing solutions related to the number of children in groups. According to the Law on Social Care for Children, the number of children in the educational group is: when it comes to children up to 18 months - ten children; from 18 months to two years - 15 children; from two years to three years - eighteen children; from three years to four years - twenty three children; from four years to five years - twenty five children; from five years to seven - thirty children. When it comes to the exception of Article 2, the number of children in the mixed group is twenty; the hospital treatment of twenty; with disturbances in the development of eight; placed in another family of ten, and the primary age in the mixed group - thirty four. According to this proposal of the law, the number of children in the educational group aged six months to one year is seven; from one year to two years is twelve; from two years to three years is sixteen; from three to four years is twenty; from four to going to school - twenty-four. The number of children in the preschool prep group is twenty-six. Exceptionally from this attitude, the number of children enrolled is: on hospital treatment - to 15, and with developmental disturbances - groups from four to six. So you can see one improvement, but at this point simply because of economic opportunities (not pedagogical, but economic possibilities) we are not in a position to accept this amendment, or to apply another solution, with a smaller number of children in groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36735	National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Zoran Shami submitted the 30th amendment together. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36736	This amendment also applies to Article 30. This article defines the number of children in individual educational groups. We suggest adding the word "maximum" here in the third position, and then moving with the list. So the number of children enrolled in the same age educational group is maximum or maximum, and then that. What we noticed, I'm surprised that you didn't fix it, and you could have, if you'd accepted our amendment, that's to say in one place – from four years to school, the number of children is 24, and then in the next sentence you say, the number of children in the preschool group is 26. The child attends a preschool prep program before going to school. So here you're practically giving two possibilities. We have suggested to you by amending that the maximum number of children in the group of preschool prep programs is also 24, because you give that possibility in this list. You say – from four to school, and the preschool preschool period is the preschool period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36737	The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36738	New Serbia's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 30. We also wanted to intervene, as far as the number of children in the group is concerned, because we think that a group of preschool children is a group that requires special attention and professional access to make the work really effective. A smaller group is far more successful in achieving all those tasks foreseen by this law and educational goals. Regardless of the savings that seem to be made in the recruitment of personnel, in the use of space, in the provision of space in this way, the damage that is produced, or the benefit that is achieved if the group is smaller, in the later period of growth is really important. However, this amendment has two parts. If this first part of the amendment is unacceptable because of the standard already drawn in some way in the reform of education, I think that at least this part of the amendment relating to children's hospital treatment was totally acceptable, because children in hospital treatment are children who are in a special emotional state, especially emotional stress, with objective health problems accompanied by recovery. We believe that it is objective to have a group of up to ten children and that only with that group in such a state can work effectively; therefore, a group that would maximum the number of ten children at that age and in that state. So I think at least this second part of the amendment was acceptable (we could intervene with some amendment with the correction), because that's what practice certainly shows and justifies. Even ten is too many for such a situation, but I think it's something that can be justified and economically feasible and could have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36739	The 32nd Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Miss Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36740	Thank you. New Serbia's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 34(3). The draft law on preschool education and education, which reads: In Article 34(3), the word “two” is replaced by “one”. Article 34. The Preschool Education and Education Act refers to children with developmental disorders and their exercise of the right to pre-school education and education in the educational group, in the educational group with additional support and individual education plan and in the development group, on the basis of an individual educational plan, in accordance with the law. As can be seen, special educational and developmental groups are foreseen for children with developmental disorders. Exceptionally, there may be a child with developmental disturbances in the educational group without these particularities, as provided for in point 3., which states that there cannot be more than two children in one educational group with developmental disturbances. Professional experience shows that one child with special needs in a group of these ages is the maximum possible quality of work and that there is visible progress in the group. Every major number, including two children with special needs, truly in practice shows that work cannot be quality and that the efforts being made have been greatly increased. The very criteria for reducing the number of children in the educational group enrolled in a child with developmental disturbances by three children compared to the number of children established by this law, as prescribed in Article 4, paragraph 4, indicates the justification of this amendment. According to the draft law, if two children with developmental disturbances were enrolled, there would be a reduction of six children compared to the number of children established by this law, which speaks of an exceptional need to engage with those children. In this case, either two children with developmental disturbances would not have the necessary conditions for development, or other children would be deprived of implementing the programme necessary for their development.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36741	On behalf of Head V above the 36th Amendment, MPs Aleksandar Pejcic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, together submitted. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36742	Madam President, Mr Minister, we have submitted an amendment to change the title of Chapter V so that after the word "examinationer" the words "pediatrian nurse - technician" are added. Why did we submit the amendment to the title of the head? Mr. Minister, do you know there's a peds specialist in medicine? That takes four years. It exists. Why is this specialization in place? Because children are specific, in terms of how certain diseases or emergency situations happen with them. I'll give you one example. Do you know what febrile status means in a child? These are conditions that develop very often and rapidly and which can lead to very serious complications, such as convulsive conditions. Not wanting to "detach" the sister of the technicians out of her head, we asked to add a pediatric sister because she was educated to recognize such conditions, to respond adequately and to provide an appropriate service at that time. This doesn't change the essence of the law, this just gives the possibility that if there is a person with such an education, he will be in that institution just to respond at times of crisis. I think that's enough reason for you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36743	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36744	My colleague Dimitrievich, I have no doubt what you said, you are probably right, but I must tell you that in the public debate that we had over this law for several months, the professional public did not react in the way you present it to us, especially it did not have the views that you have tonight; it may not have recognized the importance of this profession and that profile. Otherwise, in the light of the rejection of this amendment, we said that it was simply not in agreement with Article 116. The law on the foundation of a system of education and education where they say who's in preschool. The status of all existing employees, and then we counted, we solved Article 59(1) of this law. It's not about the work of those who are now, but I'm telling you, this first part may be wrong, but I am obliged to give you that attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36745	Mr. Dimitrievich, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36746	Mr. Minister, this is a perfectly well-intentioned suggestion. It is possible that the professional public did not recognize it, or in that professional public it was not someone who was thinking this way. I'm telling you from experience. These things happen and these things can be very dramatic. This is what you solve the problem with. That's the essence of our proposal. So nothing that would be contrary to this, except covering you in some situations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36747	The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Shami. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36748	Madam President, Article 36 refers to the actors of pre-school education and education, and the bill states: “The activity of pre-school education and education is achieved by an educator and a professional associate, and the work of a pre-school institution that provides food, care, preventive and social protection is achieved by co-workers. “ We asked that after an educator and an expert associate as an actor who performs the activity of preschool education and education, a teaching assistant be introduced, for you in article 46 give the possibility: “The pedagogical assistant provides help and additional support to children... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So, he's doing the work, unless you thought under this help and support to children would be, say, carrying a backpack. This is not for sure, because it is obvious here – it provides help and additional support to children. So they're doing this work, and it's okay to put them here in line for those who are doing preschool education and education. I think a pedagogical assistant is a step forward. It's a qualitative step forward and there's no reason to leave it, jargon to say, hang. He's not anywhere. Yes, he does, he does the work, not only in that sense, but he also works with teachers, and with parents, and with guardians, with the director of a competent institution. He participates in the process and then let's call things a real name and put him here as an actor of action.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36749	Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Donka Banovic. The word is Mr. Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36750	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to be well-intentioned, as well as my colleague Dimitrijevic, since the amendments are similar. In fact, because of the school reform, we have predicted that there is a future nomenclature with this particular technician because we believe that our competence ensures respect for the general principles of education and education, as well as the improvement of educational work and care. As I said, since there is a reform of secondary education, there is a possibility that this calling could be incorporated into this law; that calling would also improve the work of preschool institutions. I'll take the chance to inform you, since I didn't get that knowledge about the school board in Leskovac, the economic high school, that there was a re-election from the Parents' Council and that we expect the next session of the local parliament to confirm this selection of the Parents' Council, so that the director could work in accordance with the law, and that the assembly would act and no longer violate the Law on the Foundations of the Education System... I'll return to the amendment. I think the amendment was established and that we should accept it in order to improve the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36751	The title above article 38 was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. You want to go first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36752	You didn't see it, but I also said I was talking about an amendment to Article 37. The minister did not accept the addition of a "pediatrian nurse - technician", but it seems to me that the ministry or minister did not pay enough attention to the second part of this amendment, where it is predicted -- and all other educational profiles prescribed by the minister. For what? Because a few years ago we brought a strategy on secondary vocational education, because many views are under way in secondary schools in Serbia and because there is a certain success. In some schools, certain professional profiles are educated through tours, and there are data that students who complete such profiles in as many as 90% of cases find employment, or jobs immediately. You have not, through this law, left at all the possibility that through secondary vocational education, some other profiles that are not covered by this law will be able to work in preschool institutions, so that we have submitted this part of the amendment in the light of the reform of secondary vocational education.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36753	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic wants to explain Amendment 38. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36754	Thank you, Madam President. So, Mr. Minister, I have a document in front of me - health education and the role of a preschool institution, and what it does. Then he says – providing the child with basic information on health and its importance, developing responsibility for the child for preserving and improving health, forming proper habits, directing appropriate models and patterns of behaviour, etc. Then he says: Health as a concept, personal and general hygiene, care of mouth and teeth etc. All that I've listed is that the title of this head must be inserted and – a pediatric sister, because this is the person who can use his knowledge to achieve this program. I don't doubt the qualities of teachers, nurses of general direction, but this is something that's adapted, so this person is educated to share his knowledge with this particular age and population. I think it's really reasonable for you to accept this amendment, because it doesn't change the essence of the law, but it does make it possible for someone who's trained for who has learned certain knowledge and skills to apply it to preschool education institutions. It's nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36755	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 38th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Mr. Sreto Peric wants to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36756	I had no doubt that this amendment would not be accepted, but this is a good opportunity for me as an applicant for the amendment that a few things that have been a dilemma for me now might be shared with the minister. It's a good thing this law is passed, I think that employees in pre-school institutions, children and their parents will be able to do better work and everything about pre-school institutions. So far, we have regulated the area by other laws, and very often some sublegal acts have had to be applied to regulate this area. It may be a shame, but nobody can talk about it now, which this law wasn't passed last year, it seems to me in July or August, when they were on the agenda and the other education laws, but it's not too late now either. When it comes to Article 38, he says: "The task of educators is to ensure that their competences are respected by the general principles of education and education, the goals of education and education, the achievement and improvement of educational work." That goes for both teachers and the teacher's sister. Perhaps the Ministry of Education has found that the words “their competence” have no serious meaning, since they probably contain a personal degree of education that is necessary under the applicable rules for someone to be a teacher or a teacher sister; probably also licenses. It's quite enough to carry out this work, and everything else that needs to grace one tutor cannot be contained in any regulation; it's something that every one of those who work with children... One of my colleagues who understand this problem better than I do has defined it, that, to the greatest extent, a young person over about six and a half or seven years, how necessary it is to be spent in a preschool facility, is formed as a person. It really takes not only that people meet certain legal conditions, but that they love this call first and foremost, so that they can carry it out in a quality way. There are still a few dilemmas left, and perhaps Mr. Secretary will be able to answer that question. By reading this law, we haven't found anywhere how many educational groups a preschool institution needs in order to bring the organizer into the system of work. As far as I know, those who are more interested in this say it takes 42 groups to introduce a educator. And how long does it take to introduce an organizer? I'm aware that in a preschool facility that seems to me to have 11 educational groups, there is an organizer. Is that too early? Are there going to be any effects that we can't get in this way to organize these educational institutions? If it's not a problem for Mr. Minister to give us an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36757	Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Donka Banovic and Zoran Shami submitted together to the 39th amendment. First Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36758	Article 39 discusses the education of educators, so all those involved in preschool education and education, in the process. Paragraph 3 states: “Extremely, in the absence of a teacher with the knowledge of the language of a national minority, an assistant teacher with the knowledge of language and at least secondary education can be hired, along with a teacher who does not meet the conditions for not knowing the language, until the end of the procedure of the competition, and for the longest time until 31 August of the following year. The examination programme for language learning shall be determined by an appropriate higher education institution, in accordance with the law." We believe that this last attitude is not good and that it should be complemented, and that is said: “Such as there is a higher education institution for that language. In the event that there is no suitable higher education institution, programme and institution that organises the knowledge check, therefore, language, "the minister prescribes". When we wrote this amendment we had in mind educators or assistant educators, you call them that here; so these are not pedagogical assistants, so we understand each other. We had in mind educators or assistant educators for children of Roma nationality. First of all, there is no higher education facility that would be able to. There is no cathedral, yet, for the Roma language. The cathedral does not exist, so it cannot carry out the examination of the teacher’s knowledge or the assistant tutor. This is where we predict that the institution and the way and the program under which the minister is to be laid down. If it stays like this, you'll have a completely uncovered area.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36759	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36760	Thank you, Madam President. It's me again on the financials. I need to tell you one of my personal experiences. Seven or eight years ago, a service called - Hello to a healthy baby and a healthy child was introduced through the City Public Health Institute in Belgrade. In the ministry, which was financed from the City Assembly budget, they were employed exclusively by pediatric sisters. Do you know why? Because these individuals knew the complete problem of health care and children’s problems to help their parents overcome some problems with their knowledge and education. What are we looking for this for? It's precisely because that nurse who is employed in kindergarten could conduct a partial or complete education, as regards behavior, diet, ways of raising children who live in preschool institutions. That's one serious problem we've seen. As city health secretary, I insisted that this programme be introduced precisely for these reasons, that those who are trained to do the job, to deal with child health protection and to recognize certain conditions as paediatric sisters. I think you understand why I insist on this so much. I respect the knowledge of nurses in the general direction and do not diminish their importance at all, but this is the sister who is educated, educated, who has the subject of pediatrics through her education, to the point she knows this kind of problem; not only will she pay attention to children, but she will also help other employees in preschool institutions and parents to understand the essence of the problem in the proper education of children.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36761	National MP Radica Jocic submitted to the 41st amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Education adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Education adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted together to the 46th amendment. Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36762	Article 46 is entitled Pedagogical Assistant. This is, at least as far as law and regulation are concerned, the newspapers, although in practice they are already using services so-called. Pedagogical assistant. You have several ongoing projects, e.g. in Bujanovac, Medvedji etc., where pedagogical assistants are involved in the work of preschool institutions for children of Roma nationality. In law, you didn't provide for a minimum of education to be given by a pedagogical assistant. We, knowing what a realistic picture is and what the situation in Serbia is right now, have suggested that this article says that a teaching assistant must have at least three years of secondary education. I know this "three-year-old" sounds a little unusual, but that's the circumstances, that's the real situation. It'd be better if it was a four-year secondary education, but there's not much of a person like that. One more thing, when I was talking about this law in principle, I pointed to one problem, which is that the Ministry of Finance doesn't recognize this profession, in the jargon, there's no code for that occupation, so there's a problem with paying wages, or transferring money, as it says. One of the first tasks of the Ministry of Education, when you adopt this law, is to bring in a kind of regulation, and then the Ministry of Finance might recognize these people who work in preschool institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36763	The 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36764	You will agree with me that your teaching assistant in law is not exactly defined for a number of reasons, some of which we have already heard from previous exhibitions. The Serbian Radical Party has asked for this amendment to be prescribed and a degree of professional training for a teaching assistant, given that his job description here is very wide. Article 46 states that it should provide additional support to children, in accordance with their needs, to cooperate with educators and professional associates, parents and guardians, with directors, to cooperate with competent institutions, organisations and associations, local self-government units and perform all other tasks, in accordance with the law. Turns out a man needs to be a manager, and I don't know what he can do to get this done, and there's nowhere to stand with what kind of professional equipment he should have. I am sorry that this amendment has not been accepted, although I can express my satisfaction that nearly a third of the Serbian Radical Party's amendments to this bill have been accepted, but I think you should also accept an intervention related to expert preparation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36765	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36766	I'm sorry, I took out the card and you didn't see me. This is where you talk, in this whole head, about overseeing the work of a preschool institution. Article 48 speaks of inspection and expert pedagogical supervision of the work of pre-school institutions and that the supervision is carried out in accordance with the law. We propose a supplement, which was a new view: "For mixed groups and groups attending children from sensitive groups, enhanced supervision of the implementation of the educational programme is provided. “ We feel that in a mixed group and in a group composed of children who come from sensitive groups it is much harder to work. We do not consider the inspection work to be the only control of that institution or a particular educator, but rather more co-operation, where educators or preschool institutions would be helped to solve some problems, because such preschool institutions and educators in such groups face problems that some other preschool institutions do not encounter. It's not some kind of strict inspection, just to control the work, it's the goal of better co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36767	The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36768	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the amendment refers to Article 50, which reads: "The parent, or guardian of the child, participates in the provision of funds for the achievement of the work of a preschool institution, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or a local self-government unit of 20% of the economic price per child, in accordance with the law. "The amendment, which I submitted to this article on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party, reads: Article 50, paragraph 1, following the words "the unit of local self-government" are added "up to the highest". What opportunities would be opened by adopting this amendment? First of all, the possibility for local self-government to reduce the doping of parents, if, of course, local self-governments are in that possibility, not only local self-governments, but also the founder, as provided for by Article 2 of this Law. What concerns me more and more is the irresponsibility or lack of interest of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in most of the child-related problems. I wonder if the next step is the birth certificate of six months? Unfortunately, all the moves the state makes will result in an average of half a child per family. Unfortunately, neither the Ministry of Education, Mr. Minister, does anything more than the government for its citizens, which is probably the government's intensity for destroying the family and, after all, the nation. Why? This is a good example. For example, I'm going to take the Preschool Institute "Suncreti" from Vladimirs, the Municipality of Sabac. The passion of local self-government may be more evident in the case of this preschool institution, and that in this Ministry of Education, especially you, Mr. Minister... Because all this paperwork that's in front of me was on your desk, but if you trust it to the people of your immediate environment, you haven't even looked at it. Therefore, the facts are as follows: local self-government has replaced inadequate members of the Management Board, counting representatives of parents, ignoring all the proposals submitted by the preschool institution to local self-government as a proposal from the employee order, on several occasions, and even different proposals. I'll remind you, Mr. Minister, of your words at the moment of the interpretation of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Answering the question of one of the MPs, I quote your words, you said: “Don’t tell me that local self - government can have a crucial influence on the selection of directors with only three members. “ Since a competition for the selection of directors and pre-school institution has been called within the legal deadline, then, Mr. Minister, the highlight of the indiscriminateness of local self-government or the governing structure in this local self-government – the chairman of the Management Board makes a decision on the selection of directors, without holding a session of the Management Board, self-initiatively. I remind you once again that all the documentation was on your desk, it was delivered to you all that you see here in front of me (I hope you will accept it, I will give you this again, although I did not deliver it to you, but delivered it to you by this preschool facility), and that the Ministry of Education, with you at the head, did not do anything about it. I wonder what that should tell the citizens of Serbia about engaging in the problems of pre-school institutions and the problems of working with children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36769	Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36770	I'll try to answer your question tomorrow and see what's really going on, whether the data we own at the Ministry matches what you said tonight, because it happens many times to read different data. On the one hand, there are MPs, on the other hand local self-government, and there are others who are in preschool institutions. In any case, a colleague of Popov wrote down the name of a preschool institution; if it is the Vladimirs, it is a special municipality, it is not part of the Capca. Anyway, we'll check it out tomorrow. Otherwise, as far as responsibility is concerned, I think you've used a little bit of big words about the demographic situation and the responsibility of this ministry and this government, because the demographic situation in Serbia is very bad decades ago. If we want to talk about this, I am one of the ministers who thinks the state should bring a strategy of demographic development, because there can be no ministry, no government or one generation, it needs a little more to be done to improve our demographic situation in Serbia. I don't think any of the measures we've taken here could be at the expense of the family. Do you know why? I thought I'd say that in the final word. This law, whether someone liked it or not, of course, someone participated and someone not, more or less, the rule was essentially five governments and it lasted seven years. That can be both negative and positive. I think that was enough time to determine the content of this law and predict possible positive and negative consequences. If this has been resolved so far by some other law, if we pass this law for the first time, if we have accepted a lot of quality amendments, it seems to me that we are on the best track to have one good law. I'm not going to say great law, because no law is great, I've seen it as an MP, because there are always positive and negative sides, but at least one good law, which can then be changed further in walking. For the first time now, we will have a law on pre-school education and education that is dedicated to this very important area as part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36771	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MP Sasa Maksimovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36772	Thank you, I agree, Mr. Minister, with your demographic development plan and I think that's certainly necessary. You're right, the Vladimirs are a special municipality, I mean the Sabbath cut or the county or whatever you want. As far as this file is concerned, I hope you'll allow me to deliver it to you, since I didn't make this up or write it myself. These are all the documents of the Assembly of the Municipality, with valid stamps, as well, the documents of the Management Board, and of course, as I said, both local self-government and pre-school institutions. I hope you accept this, since I will deliver this kit to you now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36773	Members of the 50th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36774	Head eight is talking about funding. We suggest adding a new position in Article 50, which reads: "Pre-school education and child education is free of charge. “ I suppose you would have answered me, if you had responded, only we had not received that answer, that this was meant or that it was contained in the Law on the Foundations of an education and education system. I guess that's the answer. I think this law should stand out clearly, first of all because of parents, that preschool education and child education are ready for free, such as basic education, at least on paper, free of charge. We know that parents have those costs. When it comes to funding, there is one problem facing local self-government; they are the ones paying teachers in preschool institutions. As far as I know, an agreement has been reached earlier on to give money from the budget for teachers working in preschool preschool, i.e. money translated by the Ministry of Education. People from local self-government complain that these funds are being mistranslated, that they have problems paying those teachers. Then the question arises – how much is it that those educators are motivated to work quality with children if they haven't been paid for months? Some local self-governments are able to raise money for their salaries, so they're probably waiting for you to translate it, but some local self-governments don't have the means, so that's the problem. I know it's recently, it seems to me, so rudely, 50% of local self-government, but out of that 50%, that 50% of their funds have been translated... There are other local self-governments who expect money for educators who work in preschool training. So I believe that this sentence should stand in this law – it is ready for preschool free.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36775	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36776	Thank you. I think this question was asked by a colleague named Pejcic. I didn't tell you at the time the data we have here at the Ministry, but I think it's a real need, especially now after this presentation, my colleague Banovic, to introduce you to the financial situation relating to the transfer of funds that the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has set aside for the preschool preparation programme. Things are like this, don't be angry, I'll read it, so I don't quote it, or I won't convince what we did here at the Ministry. At the beginning of the school year, so that people who are watching this know what procedure is laid down for the payment of this preparatory preschool programme, in order to avoid possible doubt, at the beginning of the school year, the preschool and primary education sector, the Department of Preschool Education and Education delivers to the Financial Sector, and this is the Department for Budget Preparation, the plan for the implementation of the preschool programme for the school year in the organisation of preschool institutions and primary schools. The plan contains the number of groups per municipality. Based on the above mentioned plan and on the report on the implemented pre-school preparation programme, which delivers municipalities, pre-school institutions and schools, the preparatory pre-school programme is funded by groups each month. The funds are transferred to municipalities, which then transfer funds to preschools and schools. The funding takes place once a month for the previous month. Right, there were problems, because by the end of 2009, funding, due to the lack of funds, we're doing it two months back. The bill found that by the end of 2009, there was enough funds to pay, so the deficit was reduced. The September month was paid for 5. 11. In 2009, October of the month – 30. 11. In 2009, November – 18. 12. In 2009, December – 18. 01. 2010 and January – 19th 02. 2010 There's a payoff under way for February. It's complete information regarding our obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36777	Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36778	I didn't say it by heart. Local self-government is complaining. However, from what you've said, I conclude that you do your duties to local self-government properly. Then I can only conclude that local self-governments do not meet their obligations to preschool institutions that organize preschool work. I can tell from what you said. Then the way you pay is not good, because when you transfer money to a high school or elementary school you don't go through local self-government. Why does local self-government appear here now as a mediator, regardless of what I know to be the jurisdiction of local self-government? However, if you in practice notice that these things happen, and you as Minister of Education is, I suppose, very much concerned that these people who work in preschool institutions are motivated, I don't see that it's necessary for this local self-government to appear as a mediator, so that they keep the money and again, which they shouldn't, then use it for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36779	My colleague Banovic, I could very much agree with what you said, but, you know, first of all, you asked whether the Republic was fulfilling its obligations and I told you; this shows that we are behind, but that it is not much and that we are trying to fulfil all our obligations. Very consciously and deliberately I read you the whole procedure, so you can see the transfer of funds, which is a condition for the transfer of funds and how the transfer of funds is carried out. But we're not in a position to control the local self-government and the distribution of the funds that we transfer to them, related to the preschool prep program.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36780	The 50th amendment was filed by MP Jelena Budimirovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36781	Thank you. I would just like to say briefly that by accepting the amendment submitted by the Education Committee was essentially accepted and my amendment, because they were written in almost identical text. The most important thing is that children from materially endangered families are excluded from the obligation to pay under Article 1, except for children without parental ageing and children distracted in development, which was the purpose of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36782	Thank you. On the basis of Article 50, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Education Committee. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, the Prosecutor's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Pursuant to Article 52 of the amendment, Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Education Committee. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, the Prosecutor's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36783	I'd just like to say a few sentences. Thank you for your patience to discuss together the content of this law and the proposed amendments. I explained, on behalf of the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why we were in a position to accept some amendments and some not. Some amendments will be part of the debate through a sublegal act that we will adopt. I want to tell you that I would not like, as a minister, to believe neither you present here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who really speaks with great intensity about preschool education and education, that in the case of this law something happened which was the definition of an old Serbian proverb – a lot of grandmothers, kilo children, because this law was made for a long, five governments, seven years and I didn't accidentally say that many of them participated in its creation. I think that it is a quality step forward in relation to existing solutions, that it will help us to resolve some issues, but most of all I see in the fact that there are affirmative areas of pre-school education and what we are going to do through those amendments that we have adopted on the Committee and materially help people who are employed in pre-school institutions. I want to tell you that we will address some issues through acts brought by the minister, concerning the expert preparation of the teaching assistant; you know that this has been settled by Article 121, I think, Section 11. Law on the basis of the education and education system. I think we've solved a number of other issues. Of course, I have to mention it quite in the end, we will have an obligation to bring in eight sublegal acts that need to be governed by this area in the next two years under the provisions of this law. That's what we predicted, and that's what we're gonna do. Once again, thank you all for your patience and for your contribution to making this law quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36784	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People's MPs, I thank you, especially because we have filled the end of today's work day with dialogue on very important legal matter, on the education and education of preschool children. Mrs. Donka Banovic came forward after the proposal's representative, but I think it's correct to give her a word, given indeed more than active participation in this delicate and complex matter. Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36785	Thank you, but I didn't want to look back on the bill, but I wanted to ask you how many parliamentary groups have time, because tomorrow comes the second law, and we don't know how much time we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-16-0.u36786	You, as an authorised representative, have six minutes and forty-five seconds, and a group of eight minutes and thirty seconds, SRS - thirty nine minutes and thirty seconds, forward Serbia - eighteen minutes, and others have not taken advantage of much of their time. Tomorrow at 10.00 we continue to work, with discussion in detail on the draft law on student and student standards. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I would ask the MPs to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are 98 MPs present and there are conditions to work. I would like to inform you that MP Milica Radovic has been prevented from attending the session, and that I agree with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, called for the meetings to be attended by Želimir Popov and Zoran Trninic, the assistant ministers of the Enlightenment, then Miroslava Radikic and Ljiljana Nenadovic, senior advisers at the Ministry of Education. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON STUDY AND STUDENT STANDARD (specificities) You have received amendments that are... (Zoran Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) You probably wanted to advertise the Rules of Procedure in the sense that you haven't received a report yet, which is multiplying, so I'm setting a break by 11:00, when you're going to have a report. That's not what you wanted? Here you go.
