ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I assume you've had the opportunity to hear that on Friday, December 3rd, at the Palace of Justice, an SRS MP was attacked. He was attacked by a civilian, allegedly employed in a court of law. We will ask for all information, that is, to provide us with information regarding that person. That act best speaks for the state we live in. You know, everything's allowed here. Here you are allowed to draw maps of some new states in Serbia's territory, allowed to print some new passports of some new states, in Serbia. You are also allowed to revise some international contracts. Everything that is directed against this country, absolutely, although the Constitution and the Law are being violated, not only is it not being processed, but it goes beyond that without any problem. However, if you show even the slightest shred of concern and feelings for the state and for the problems of citizens facing a state terror, that is absolutely not allowed. This must be prevented in the most brutal way. The fact is that terror is being committed against the Ratko Mladic family, and terror in continuity. Just to remind you that in February, during the search of Mladic's apartment, some amount was taken from the apartment and that they had not returned that money to this day, and they were obliged to return that money within 90 days, in accordance with the law. They have taken the right to receive the pension of Ratko Mladic, and here it is thought that Stjepana Mesic and Naser Oric will retire. What kind of country do we live in? What's going on? Vojislav Seselj has been literally killed in The Hague for several months. Our country is silent, she's absolutely not interested in it. The Security Council raises a problem in connection with the trial of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, and in general with the existence of the UN tribunal and the continuation of the UN tribunal's work, and our officials remain silent. All they care about is that they fulfill all the orders they get from Washington and Brussels and that all those who in any way try to resist it are silenced, and in some cases even process them, to intimidate everyone else so that they don't resist and that this current government finishes the work it received from Washington and Brussels. As far as the SRS is concerned, I can tell you that you can do whatever you want, but we will not stop fighting for the interest of the Serbian and Serbian state. We will express our political views. We are, you know, against the arrest of Ratko Mladic. We will do everything to make life easier for the Ratko Mladic family. Here, this is where we tell him, if he can hear us, not to surrender, to endure all these pressures, because everything is passing, so this puppet rule will pass. I am convinced that Serbia will finally be ruled by someone who will take care of the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48042	The word is given by MP Dragan Shormaz, authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48043	Respect for the Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the Republic of Serbia, as we see from the European Commission's report, the last to be done on Serbia's path to the EU, i.e. For Euro-Atlantic integration, the biggest problem, among many problems, is something we are going to discuss here today -- judicial reform, but also corruption. It seems to me that in the Republic of Serbia there is talk of corruption. The government is talking about corruption and admits that there is corruption, but it does not act, and it does nothing in the matter of bringing corruption down or down to some, let's say, an acceptable level, although it can never be as acceptable a level as organised by the countries of Europe, the EU, and other parts of the world. We have many examples, situations that have not been resolved, affairs that have not been resolved, corruption stories, replaced by some directors who then move to other places. I have information, I don't know how accurate it is, because our media haven't published it, I think I have good information, that an agency dealing with the fight against corruption within the EU is visiting Serbia these days, perhaps tomorrow, about many of the situations they are familiar with. We also hear stories about the adoption of some new laws that cannot be released into the assembly procedure, discussing whether they will fight in one way or another, but cannot begin fighting in the right sense, thus suffering the budget of the Republic of Serbia and suffering citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are obviously unable to fight corruption. It's full of mouth stories about building infrastructure, the state's in debt, and now it's talking about selling Telecom to build, allegedly, infrastructure. On the other hand, Serbia's president is running around Serbia and is talking about being late in business and looking for the culprits for being late in building infrastructure, I guess he can't find them and tell us who he is. Visiting the region, seeking greater investment in Serbia, asking for greater investment of Serbian companies in the region at the same time, leaving for some countries once a month, but at that time leading the conflict, looks verbal, not some others, with those who run the strongest companies in Serbia, who could invest in the region. I've had interesting bridges lately. For example, building a bridge on Beški has been late for years compared to the planned contract to build a bridge on Beška. We've never been explained or told about anything. The famous Adi bridge has repeatedly passed what is foreseen as the cost of costing the bridge, and a new problem is being prepared, even a possible new affair, which is the purchase of land on both sides of the Sava in Belgrade for the construction of access roads. I am convinced that we will already talk about this in parliament, because something interesting is happening in Belgrade and some businessmen are already chasing that land. The third bridge that I find interesting, about which I'm going to ask a question, is the Jell-O Bridge. In fact, we are talking about this, we are in debt with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the construction of that bridge, of course, but a tender has been called up, offers have been opened on 10 November, in the tender documentation that I have written that the evaluation will be completed by December and that all this is already over, and nothing is happening. I've got a table, everybody needs to know that. He's late at the start of the tender. My question is for the competent Minister Mrkonjic, he is very precise in those answers, so I would like to hear him. When will the construction of the Iron Bridge begin, when will the construction of the Iron Bridge be completed and how much will it cost to build the Iron Bridge? I'm not interested in anything else, just when it's gonna start, when it's gonna end and what it's gonna cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48044	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48045	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the President-in-Office, have a case that is true to me, but I still believe that the state and state institutions will find a solution and that justice, they say, forms in those directions that deserve citizens. It says this, entitled "We're going to die on the street" – a Roma family, Sremcevic Zoran, who is 70 years old, who did his job, received a single apartment in Belgrade in Dalmatian Street 78. However, as needed by the city and urban needs, it is torn down and then it gets an apartment from the Building Land Directorate, but it doesn't get owned, it gets used in 1.8.2000, and it was permanently used in 28.12.1988. Now, this Roma family, a man who is 70 years old and a woman who is operated by cancer, have been given a solution to be thrown out into the street. Please also the Directorate for Building Land and the City of Belgrade and I appeal, for social and human reasons, not to touch a sick and old man and a woman who is operated on by a serious illness. He signed this solution, but, please, a man who's illiterate, Rom, what he knows what he's signing, he knows he's got a solution for the constant use of the apartment that he's got and now it's collapsing and he needs to get another one. But he got to use it. Now they're moving him out. I'm asking all the institutions, both city and republican, to have an understanding of this one, I'm not going to say manipulation, but there's been manipulation. If he had a permanent use, the Belgrade City Directorate had to give him the same solution for permanent use, but she gave him the use and now they're pushing him out. Where does a 70-year-old man go now with a sick wife and two grandkids? Where to go, die on the street? Please, I expect humanity, if nothing else, to at least for social and human reasons certain institutions show one mood and the possibility of not moving out of that apartment, because there is nowhere to go, and he deserves it by his long-standing work in the firm "Technorad" from Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48046	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48047	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, over the past few weeks, we have witnessed events related to student protests, and regarding the conditions under which they can enter next year. It has been repeated for several years, and it will certainly be repeated in the coming years. The reason is very simple. The government is unable to resolve in one extremely precise, unequivocal and just manner the conditions under which students can enter next year, whether they finance the cost of the state, whether they finance themselves by paying for their studies. Two years ago, the DSS proposed amendments and amendments to the laws that would define it. Then we practically proposed these same changes as the amendment last year when we passed the law. The government refused, of course, the Assembly did not even discuss the Law in the old good practice and it will be subject to one question, and the government refused to accept the amendment. Of course, the assembly majority then, unthinkingly, also rejected the amendment, since I think the government says it's Saturday, the majority would vote that too. The whole series of unfortunate circumstances, which I say is immediately caused by the behaviour of some colleges, where unfortunately there have been enrolments both by grandmother and by uncles, and the students are very sensitive to justice, I assure you, I have had enough experience with it, it has given some colleges a chance to withstand 'private universities', unfortunately, not competition in terms of quality, but competition in terms of selling a degree, and then they have inappropriately raised the cost of studying. There have also been advertising messages from Belgrade Mayor and the president of the Regional Council, how they will help their universities, as if they think they are getting money from their own pocket, not from the pockets of Serbian citizens, because both the Belgrade budget and the province budget are filling, of course, Serbian citizens. Not to say that the question is asked – who will help students in Nis or students at Kragujeva University? What is the relationship of the ruling majority to the whole problem? I have to admit, I was just astounded. For last Tuesday, I scheduled a session of the Education Committee, because it was logical to schedule it, the problem was burning, so the village burned down. However, the session could not be held because it had no quorum. No representative of the five DS representatives came, no SPS representative came, and in fact only Mr. Riza Halimi and Mrs. Olena Papuga were present from the ruling majority. The others, the seven of us in total, came from the opposition. He wasn't even a representative of the LDP. I had no other solution, but to schedule a session for today, though, I must, and the chairman will probably confirm it, to say that DS had a representative, but unfortunately he is not a member of the Committee, it was Mrs. Comic. My questions are next. First, I ask the Government if he intends to solve this problem permanently, precisely and justly, otherwise every year, the picture will be repeated. Secondly, I ask the Government if it has any intention to change the logic of funding education, total education, because with the current logic, where everyone, from cleaning woman to university professor, is practically employed by the government and where it doesn't matter if someone is a good professor or a desperate professor, and in this budget, a week of budgets, which you can check out, can't get far. And the third question, which was addressed to the president of the Assembly – is he intending to stop breaking the Constitution by making legislative proposals and proposals for other acts proposed by the parliamentary groups... (President: five minutes. Second one... Mostly from the opposition, never puts it on the agenda, never.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48048	National MP Kenan Hajdarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48049	Dear Vice Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last week we witnessed huge floods in Lima Valley, Drina, where citizens of Brodarev, Prepolje, Pryboa, Loznica and Love. The consequences of these floods were enormous, over 1,500 inhabitants were evicted, flooded houses, residential buildings, interrupted infrastructure roads, collapsed bridges like in Brodarevo. If we can't influence the elemental disasters, then we can influence the help of these areas. For the past year, our citizens have been exposed to other natural disasters and a difficult situation and a series of these natural disasters have shown that we cannot be an isolated island and live as ourselves, not as part of a system. That's why the LDP thinks we need to join the collective security system. When he insists on the so-called. A neutral relationship, then it takes citizens of flooded areas, today in the area of Lima and Drina, or the citizens of the Kings to say that we are losing our ability to help them effectively, i.e. as part of the NATO system, to have the assistance that the citizens of Montenegro and Albania have today. So, only as part of this wider security European system can we count on effective assistance, help that needs to come to every citizen, and not to be a consequence of what we have today, that citizens are left to themselves, or that this assistance that comes to citizens is delayed or that it comes entirely chaotic and depends on political will or on individuals or parties in power. Therefore, the LDP believes that those who refuse NATO integration, justifying them with myths and their NATO experience, as military alliances, should understand that NATO today is all, just not a military alliance, that this represents a single security framework and, most importantly, an economic framework in which citizens can live much better. So the LDP asks the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the prime minister -- does the government think that after the latest developments it should change its neutrality policy?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48050	The word has an MP, Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48051	Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members of Parliament, the chairman, I have a question for the Prime Minister, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Based on the Commission's report on the discovery of secret tombs from 1944 to 1946, made by communist executioners, the communist decrees of death. I have a map of Serbia here, and we can see that Serbia is almost all in secret graves and that there is no place where we could step up to live without the victims of the communist totalitarian regime. In 2006, the Council of Europe issued a recommendation that parliaments of the former communist countries bring declarations, in this case Serbia, a declaration of the condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes, so I ask if the Serbian government and when will it submit to the Serbian Parliament such a declaration to be adopted? I will also remind you here I have a list of recorded locations of secret tombs in Serbia, i.e. where they are located, Alexandrovac, Aleksinac, near the village of Gornji Krupac, Kalemegdan, Nebojsina Tower – Kalemegdan, Ada Giganija, stadium "Graficar" – Senjak, stadium "Obilić", Great War Island, Žarkovo, Kosutnjak, Hall "Pionir", Cvijiceva, Turkish Embassy, Park Manjež, Topcider, Lisic stream, Belimarković's orchard, Banjica, Marinkova bar, Rakovica, the foot of Avala, "Hydrobaza" near the hotel Yugoslavia. This is just Belgrade. In the territory of all Serbia, we have secret tombs, and I think it is our obligation that all those who have suffered innocents, just because they were ideological opponents of one totalitarian regime, we bury them in one dignified, Christian way and that our obligation to generations to come and to the families of those killed, to find the bodies of these victims, to bury them with dignity, so that history does not repeat itself. Because World War II killers and after World War II were rewarded for their crimes. Our crimes were repeated at the end of the 20th century at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. I'm telling you once again, this is in the best interest of all. If we forget these crimes, there's a fear they'll happen again. So it is in Serbia's best interest that the government of the Republic of Serbia, as soon as possible, submit to the Assembly the resolution on the condemnation of the communist totalitarian regime's crimes from 1944 to 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48052	Do any of the representatives or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word to exercise their right under Article 286(2)? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next Members of the People: the People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Đukić-Dejanović, on the joint Single Review of the Bills of the 8th to 32nd Agenda, in addition to the representative of the motionist Ivica Dačić, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, then Božidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Minister of Science and Technology Development, Vuk Jeremic, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Snežana Malović, Minister of Justice, Tomica Milosavljević, Minister of Health, Rasima Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Saša Draganna, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Affairs of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to a joint single search of the 8-32nd agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON APPROVAL OF INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTS Consensually decided by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for the 8-32th agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 170 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of a single parliamentary group, and that is: a parliamentary group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; a parliamentary group of SRS - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; a parliamentary group of G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; a parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; a parliamentary group of DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; a parliamentary group of SPS - 18 minutes; a parliamentary group of LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; a parliamentary group of New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; a group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a parliamentary group of PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file immediately for a word, and with the order of the MPs, on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would also like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by Parliament MP Milica Vojic Markovic, MP Dejan Mirovic, MP of the SRS; MP Zoran Kasalovic, MP of the SPS - JS. I also ask other parliamentary groups, if they make a decision on an authorised representative, to deliver that information to us so that we can inform the MPs. In accordance with Article 170a of Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in the Protection of Natural and Other Catastrophes, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy, Proposal for a Act on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, Proposal for a Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Government of the Republic of Austria on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, Proposal for a Law on Youth Mobility of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, on the Employment of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic Since 10 December 2008, replacing Annex I of the multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations Mission in Kosovo (in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999) establishing a common European aviation area. Before I ask if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to speak, on the basis of Article 90(2), on the basis of Article 87 and in accordance with Article 27, I am giving the following notice: working on a joint principled single search on agenda points that are currently open will take up to 14.00 hours, when a break will be set. If our work, debate and discussion ends before 1400 hours, then a break will be given at that time. This break, in both cases, and if we work until 14:00 hours and if we finish our work early, it will take up to 15.00 hours, and at 15.00 hours, a new session will begin, a session on the current topic scheduled on the proposal and request of the LDP parliamentary group, where the representatives of the government will answer questions from the current topic. After completing the Rules of Procedure of the current session, unless we complete the work on a joint single search of the exactly open agenda points, we will continue after 1800 hours, and until the work is completed on the agenda points that are just opened. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Sasha Dragin, want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want to start from a smaller point of view? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Kasalovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48053	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to say that the MP club SPS - JS will in principle support all the draft laws which are the subject of today's principle debate, and there are 25, as we have heard. My wish is to put a certain accent on the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the CG on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters. The following three draft laws concerning agreements on scientific and technological co-operation with the United States, the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Italy. When it comes to the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the CG on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters, I think it is necessary first and foremost to say what this agreement means and what is subject to and the purpose of the agreement. First of all, the subject of this agreement is to regulate the conditions for voluntary assistance in cases of disasters and major accidents, and this applies primarily to floods, earthquakes, fires, environmental pollution, radiological dangers and other industrial disasters, then to mutual information on dangers, mutual assistance in the protection and rescue of the consequences of disasters, education and training of members of services to participate in the rescue, exchange of scientific and technical data, and, of course, cooperation in the development and production of protection and rescue equipment. As far as the agreement is concerned, it is aimed at helping in cases of disaster, in line with the opportunities available to each other, Serbia and Montenegro's government. I would like to apostrophe one member, although this agreement in progress quite precisely defines the procedure for the realization of all these items of the contract and the objective, it is Article 23, which speaks of the appointment of a permanent and mixed committee that will be in charge of implementing this agreement and which is obliged to meet at least once in the course of the year, which is certainly the basis and framework for this agreement to take effect in fact and in practice. What is the significance of this agreement, I would like to express through what was happening in Banat at the beginning of this decade, 2000 and 2005, and everyone knows that these were floods in 2005 in the populated places Jaša Tomić and Međa, in the settlements of Boka, Šurjan, Konak, and a similar scenario happened in 1966. I have a testimony about what engineer Nikola Bulgariani wrote, who was the leader of the flood defense in the populated town of Međa, and he very comprehensively presented a testimony in the period from 20 April 2005 to 5 May 2005 in everything that was happening at that time in the populated town of Međa. I think that's very good, because it seems to me that sometimes we tend to let go of certain events and that negative experiences are repeated to us and to learn the necessary lessons. That's what it says in favor of having almost three identical scenarios in Banat, as I said in 1966, 2000 and 2005. What's this about? In 2005, it should be said that the Beds on the Tamish River and other rivers in the Republic of Serbia did not give in. This happened in the territory of the state of Romania and the water breach occurred on the right tamish dikes, in two places, in the length of 160m and 200m and due to the downstream position of our territory, lower quotas, the water has penetrated our territory across the border, and with some negative scenario threatened to endanger several inhabited areas and some 55,000 hectares of land. The priority was to prevent such a breakthrough in the depths of the territory, and I can say that in those moments we have had a great fight with both water and time, in those moments, showing certain weaknesses, above all in the field of organisation and not knowing the exact competences of all those who should participate in this flood defence process. The whole story is that the Tamish River is an interstate flow and that defence against floods must be managed in a concerted manner and that only so lasting in interstate co-operation with Romania can solve the problem of repeated floods and causing major damage. As far as this topic is concerned, they are referring to the facts and these disasters that occurred, therefore, to the floods mentioned in Loznica and Prepolje, but also in Montenegro itself, then to the earthquake in the King. I want to appeal from this angle and this way about the importance of this topic, about the importance that this government recognizes this problem in this way. In order to approach the problem in this way, in this report itself and in this review of the events, I would like to say that at that time, the engineer of Bulgaria and the people who led the defence of Međe and then, on 28 April 2005, thanks to the fact that the highest state peak was often present in Međa and contributed much to the defence and after that renewal, I also met the state summit with the need not to repeat this scenario and that the long-standing problem of the tamis flood with the Romanian side was not resolved until then. Since Tamish is an interstate flow, the flood defense has to be carried out in a consistent manner. I want to believe that this problem and another appeal certainly convinces our government, our Ministry of the Interior, the emergency sector that this type of co-operation must be established with Romania and that harmonised studies and projects must be made, that a reconstruction of the existing defence system must be carried out in both countries' territories and that this problem must not be ignored at all, as was the case in some previous times. Unfortunately, the epilogue of the whole story was that in Međa alone, and it is known that in Jasa Tomic there was also great damage, some 65 houses fell, 66 had to be reconstructed. The damage to agriculture was at the level of 113 million dinars, but most importantly, none of the inhabitants were injured, nor were cattle killed. I also have to thank all the other bodies that participated in the organization, but of course the people of Međa have borne the greatest burden and that the feeling of solidarity that was present at the time has contributed greatly to the loss of that damage. However, open questions remain. Unfortunately, science experts themselves cannot solve it, because they say that some of the misery is being created for a hundred years and that with one percent of the risk, when big water stops happen, they can't stand it either. This problem, therefore, of interstate co-operation, I think it must have a high degree of responsibility for our government. What is the significance of this mutual intelligence and regional co-operation, I think that we were all witnesses, a few months ago, of the famous harassing in Hungary and the red mud that also threatened to pour the Tisa River into us and significantly pollute the Tisa River and endanger our environment. This is certainly another piece of evidence that contributes to the fact that this regional and interstate co-operation, in terms of the protection of the population and the fight against hawary, is beyond necessary. Certainly, the SPS - JS supports the activities of the IMP and the emergency sector, in order to make such agreements and to support good co-operation in the region in such a way as to best protect its population and citizens. Appreciateing the ministry's commitment and interior minister, Ivica Dacic, who was able to visit Jasa Tomic last year last year, says he has taken this problem seriously. In this way I did only some of the damages that occurred in the populated place of Međa. They are happening today, unfortunately, in Serbia. Such an approach would certainly achieve greater savings in financial and monetary resources. When it comes to agreements on scientific and technological co-operation with Italy, the US and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in this context, I would first and foremost like to express one support from SPS - JS MPs for an initiative discussed on Friday on the Committee on Science and Technological Development. It is heading towards a desire to give priority to the next RS budget in terms of significant support for the development of science and scientific and technological development. I certainly believe that the Republic of Serbia does not have some large sources of oil, gas and other natural resources, but has a territory in one good place, has a good geographical position, of course, has a population and very capable young and talented scientists. In this regard, I would like to say that these agreements are certainly in favour of this initiative and the need for a budget, which was, for 2010 for the development of science and technological development, at a level of 9 billion, certainly in 2011, to be designed at a significantly higher level. The desire is to be at a level of 14.5 billion, with one significant increase of 60%. However, if we take into account the fact that this would mean new 4,000 researchers, 1,700 young researchers and the possibility of those in RS not going from our country to other developed countries, then essentially, we have one export that has no price, achieve their professional and any other quality. I say once again, it is our wish that the Ministry of Finance and all those who participate in the creation of the next budget, of course and the peoples of parliament, to support one of these initiatives supported by the Science Committee. We also had opportunities to face a letter addressed to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly by SANU, the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, the Association of the Serbian Institute and the Conference of the University of Serbia. So, all the respectable institutions. With this in particular, we would like to focus and support the proposals for a Scientific and Technological Development Agreement. In the end, I was talking about these four draft laws. In essence, the SPS - JS supports all the draft laws that are the subject of today’s principle debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48054	14 minutes and 20 seconds have been used for the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the peoples of MPs Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48055	Madam Chairman. I must remind my fellow Members that the chairman, reading the agenda, has used 11 minutes today. Each of us MPs for these 25 points has exactly three seconds, if you'd like to talk about each of them. It seems to me that we are running lightly over some important topics. Here I fully agree with Mr Kasalovic, who spoke about the importance of the topics that are today in front of RS MPs. Among these topics there are so many different and diverse topics that really, just because they are some ratifications, there is no reason for us to pack all this in one package and offer today to the MPs, and in a few days Serbia's citizens. Here we also have technological and scientific cooperation and cooperation in the protection of natural disasters, employment of members of the family of diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff, diplomatic and consular representations, extradition, health care, biomedicine and social security, protection of human rights, so it is very complicated to speak in one such way as this united debate today about all of this. That's why I decided to talk about these three points of veterinary cooperation in the veterinary field. That's why I'm glad that Mr. Micovic, who is head of the Veterinary Administration and Mr. Sasa Dragin, who is the minister of the area, is here. I will talk about the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on Co-operation in the Veteran Area, on the Law on Confirmation of Memorandums of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on Veterinary Cooperation and the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Argentina on Co-operation in the field of Veterinary Cooperation. With almost no weeks of not winning in the media some of the headlines that a shipment of smuggled meat was intercepted at the border and seized, that in the past ten days in Serbia it was a famous affair on smuggled meat originating in Argentina and Brazil, which, through Kosovo and Metohija, practically two years, has been imported into Serbia's territory as branded goldfish sold in Serbia's territory. Then, the affair of keeping farmers at night at night to prevent inspection of their holdings and to kill all pigs in order to continue to prevent the development of swine fever disease of this village, Srema, as an epidemic of disease had to be known in the territory of this village, which the veterinary service had to know about, because it had to have vaccines within the framework of preventive measures of the health care of domestic animals. I have to ask people who are obviously in charge of the area, did she know the veterinary services of how this failure occurred, why did he happen and who did it? From what I read here, from the ministry's statement, it says – against the owners of pigs and veterinary organisations who did not respect the prescribed measures and thus contributed to the spread of classical swine fever and to the emergence of economic and other damages, will be taken by the strictest law of the prescribed measure, the statement said. Also, they say - the meat of the sick animals is not for human use, and all the sick and suspicious animals must be destroyed with the implementation of all hygiene and sanitary measures, including the harmless removal of corpses. These are parts of a statement issued by the Ministry. Then, I have to warn you about something I've said more than once when I talked about the Veterinary Act, and also in the context of some of the questions I've been asking the Resolute Ministry, I have to point out the problem of smuggling cattle from Serbia through Bosnia for Croatia, and then the lack of ear tags, I say responsibly, this information a week ago, you also had the same thing in the media, the farmer from the Kolubar County, I argue, the Kolubar County, is quite clear that there are no stamps, and that stamps can be obtained on black. Then, you have meat smuggling, meat processing smuggling, and it's all not since yesterday, and it's just the tip of the iceberg that can be seen when these affairs occur and when these things appear in the media. That something serious was wrong with the functioning of the veterinary service, both the government and those in charge of the government for this area, could see already at the end of 2008, when veterinarians first organised a protest rally in front of the government, warning the government of what measures it is taking, what it is doing for this service and how much it will contribute to the general state of health of Serbian citizens. That moment, so at the end of 2008, we had a budget rebalance, I remember very well, because I wrote an amendment on the subject, the government owed the veterinary organisation 1/2 billion euros for the measures implemented, the programme for the health care of domestic animals, the control of meat and milk and the control of meat and meat processing and the control of milk and milk products. Of course, the law obliged the veterinary service to work in that part, she did her part of the job, the government didn't do her part of the job. So, by debting them that much money, the government has threatened the functioning of the veterinary service, which further means implementing all other measures of preventive animal health and thus, of course, has endangered the health of Serbian citizens, but has also endangered what is Serbia's priority, which is the export of meat to the EU, to Russia's territory and beyond. Veterinary service since 2008, I'm talking about the end of 2008, she didn't have and couldn't get any drugs, no vaccines, no equipment, they didn't even have any fuel to get into the field. The veterinary chamber then warned: "There may be an outbreak of infectious diseases that will endanger human and animal health and the ban on exporting life-forms originating in Serbia." In 2009, the state allocated 1.3 billion dinars to the veterans, which was at the level of half of the planned assets for 2008, not taking the debt you had at the end of 2008. What the Veterinary Chamber announced in 2009 happened to us in 2010. So people were not prophets, but simply knew how the ministry worked and knew that what was being carried out decades ago, if it did not take place, would have its consequences. Veterinary services were not in a position to take all measures to detect, prevent, appear, suppress and eradicate infectious diseases, as it was done decades ago. Then came the amendment of the Veteran Law, here in the Assembly, when practically all the competencies that veterinary services had taken away and passed on to other services. It is interesting that all this happened in 2009 when the Serbian Veterinary Chamber celebrated 120 years of its existence in the Serbian Medical Society, which is only older than it and has 137 years of existence, so that year when it celebrated 120 years of its existence, it fought for its naked survival. In addition, I have to say more facts that do not go hand in hand in all of this cooperation that this is all about in these three laws, which is a very badly done privatisation of veterinary cells, but, for God's sake, the fate of the institutions of those we've been proud of for the past decades, such as the Veterinary Institute in Zemun and the Veterinary Institute in Subotica. Both of these institutions produced vaccines, immune serums and diagnostics. In half of 2009, the owner of the Zemun Institute, which otherwise exists for 70 years and is an institution with a great tradition to be proud of, ceases to produce vaccines, serums and diagnostics. Serbia, which previously exported vaccines, will run out of vaccines. Here, I'll call right back to what I said. The answer I received from Mr Dragin and the Ministry of Agriculture to question the public's notification of vaccination against wild animals' rabies, says that for this action, the vaccination of wild animals against rabies has been taken from the Bioveta manufacturer, the Czech Republic. So Serbia no longer has its rabies vaccine. How dangerous it is for Serbia's territory is the fact that when an epidemic occurs, such as this one today, such as this swine fever, you can't get the vaccines you need on the Serbian market for a day or two, but you have to introduce it from another side. It takes a long time, and of course, it contributes to the spread of the infection. Here's an example of Croatia, when Anthrax broke out in Đakova, she practically asked for vaccines for five days and bought these vaccines from Serbia. Slovenia was not lucky, she couldn't, she had the same epidemic of Anthrax, she was wasting time, the infection was spreading while she was looking for vaccines, she found them in Spain, because she couldn't buy outside the EU territory. So, I want to say everything about what the current state of the veterinary service looks like and I want to finish the story of that state a little bit, not to be too dark, what kind of cooperation here we can talk to some other countries, if in two years this government has managed to contribute to the destruction of the veterinary service, and now asks them to bear the greatest burden of responsibility for something they couldn't carry and to look into the facts of what these things are. The government left a fully unprotected stock fund, allowing dangerous infectious diseases, swine fever and atypical animal plague to occur. She destroyed the cattle stock, ruined the farms and peasants, forced the peasants to slaughter the young animals. She destroyed quality breeding material. She ruined our big export chance. Serbia began importing milk and meat of dubious quality. What I warned her about, and I warn her about animal smuggling, animal trafficking, meat and meat processing, and it negatively affects the health of citizens. In these verification laws, you say that they will notify each other of veterinary sanitary conditions for importing and transporting consignments, exchange monthly reports on the state of the infectious animals in their countries and, within 24 hours, shall be mutually notified in writing or electronic form of the occurrence of infectious animal diseases in accordance with the manner in which the occurrence of the disease occurs. Then you say that we will exchange regulations and professional publications relating to veterinary matters. I don't know if you have anything to be proud of. So, your veterinarians tell you you don't have one, and citizens can confirm that you will improve the co-operation of scientific and professional institutions in the field of animal health. Do you have scientific and professional institutions, gentlemen? Furthermore, that you will provide mutual assistance in production and in the procurement of the necessary means in the prevention of disease and treatment of animals whenever possible, we have been fenced, when possible and ultimately, to seek to organise annual expert meetings based on reciprocity. That's the question. Gentlemen, Ministers and Mr Micovic, what you need to know, you are directly responsible for the situation in this area. No one here calls you because you're from some political structure that is the political opponent of the party I come from. It's regular, it's really like that. I'm calling you because on the ground, the veterinary service isn't working, the villagers are unprotected, you can turn your head, I'm asking you out on the ground. Now I will thank the gentleman for the answer that I have received on the question of Serbia's citizens' notification of the vaccination of wild animals against rabies, and it can indeed be called a complete answer, because that is something that can be done for example, because here are pamphlets, I have flyers, CDs, media reports, and by the way you wrote me a very cultural and complex letter that gives you what is being financed from the EU fund, so you explain to me how this action is being implemented, so you invite me and those who don't know anything about this action to look at the Ministry site, and 50% of Serbian citizens can look at your website, and they're certainly not from rural areas, where it is necessary to get information first. You refer here to TV stations, to printed media and everything else, and it's all nice, but let me tell you, thank you for the answer, because this is the answer that an MP should get, when he asks the question to the Secretary of Justice. For the first time I've seen these posters of yours, and every weekend, six months back, I'm going through rural areas in Serbia. I can tell you that nowhere, but nowhere, there's no poster of yours. I'll take a poster this weekend, so you might be able to see it's in a village or a local community or a veterinary station. By the way, let me tell you, what I resented to you is a question of child education. No memo to any school in Serbia has left, no warning, so I ask you to do something in that part, because children are the ones moving in their villages and on their way to school and should give them some warning, unless we are going to instruct them to look at the Ministry site.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48056	15 minutes and 50 seconds of authorized representative time have been used. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48057	I thank you for your discussion with the honourable MP. What I'd like to say is that, in the past two years, the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, along with the Ministry of the Interior, has conducted a large number of actions to capture and destroy meat that have entered our country through smuggling channels. For that reason, such headlines, and you can see in the papers, because if those actions were gone, those headlines wouldn't even be there and it would look like nothing was going on, like there wasn't any smuggled meat. We all know that it's a problem that persists in our country for more than a decade. What I would also like to say, and this is related to the suppression of classical swine fever on a farm in the vicinity of Sremska Mitrovica, where the veterinary service has done the whole job for three days, has informed the competent institutions in the EU, and what is particularly important is that extensive measures will be taken and paid by the Ministry of Agriculture on the farm concerned, which have not implemented the vaccination programme, which is until the last dinar is financed and paid by the Ministry of Agriculture. Also, you mentioned that in 2008, there was a nine-month debt to veterinary services, and that's true. When we took over the leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture and Mr. Micovic became the Director of the Veterinary Administration, I can say that this debt has now fallen in such a way that we are literally paying from the month to month for the implementation of the programme of measures. So there's absolutely no delay in that. That can also be confirmed by the President of the Veterinary Chamber. As far as the privatisation of veterinary cells is concerned, it is not subject to the laws that are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, but under the Privatisation Act, and we have no influence on that. What you also mentioned is that Serbia produced a vaccine against rabies, and for the vaccination of wild animals. I am responsible for saying that Serbia has never produced a vaccine for the vaccination of wild animals in history, but there are only two companies throughout Europe who are certified to do so and one of these two companies is the supplier of the vaccine for the vaccination of wild animals in Serbia. This is the project that started this year. Never in Serbia's history have wild animals been vaccinated against rabies. As for the notification, and regarding the vaccination of wild animals, I agree that special attention should be paid to the youngest, but vaccination itself has nothing to do with children, because children are not vaccinated, but wild animals. As far as your discussion is concerned, and regarding the appearance of anthrax in Croatia and that Croatia has taken treatment measures, I also responsibly argue that there are no treatment measures against anthrax. If anthrax occurs, all animals in the given area are killed, and slow anthraxes can remain in the soil for over 70 years, so that the whole situation is very complex and is not allowed in any way that any animal that has been in contact with the infected animal or in that area can remain alive. As for your debate on the negative impact on the export of meat products from Serbia, I would like to deny it. The Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, under the law of the food safety law, and where among other things the amendment of the Veterinary Act has been granted a permit for free export of pigmeat, fresh animal meat, fresh fish, milk and dairy products in the past two years. These are products Serbia has been unable to export for 18 years. Probably if we hadn't done a good job, we wouldn't have gotten that. We have had three EU veterinary inspections and one from the Russian Federation over the past two years. In addition to the suggestions we immediately applied, I am pleased to say that at this point we are recommended to run for export of some other products. As of next year, it'll be fresh pork. With all due respect, I think that your debate on the subject of the veterinary system has been destroyed, is not in agreement with what is happening on the ground, and it might not be bad for you to commit yourself to this work day, because then most of the services are doing and you can see all the notifications that we give to all farmers holding cattle, and it is related to the protection of animal health in the territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48058	The right to replica has a national MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48059	Mr. Secretary, I'd love to go on a working day, but I'm doing the same thing, so I can't get out of here. It's my job to read the laws here and talk about those laws, and on weekends I can talk to people about how these laws look in their lives. As for your finding that you don't need to inform people and children, because you don't vaccinate children and people, but animals, it's totally funny and scrawny. I don't want to comment. People wonder if vaccines are dangerous for them? Is finding a child on the way to school dangerous for him? You can't ban a child or explain to him that something doesn't touch. So the whole story is that people have to be informed or, Mr. Minister, start making posters for animals, let them know they're going to be vaccinated. I think you made these posters for people after all. Furthermore, the finding that what we read in the media, I see headlines, that stopped shipments of smuggled meat means that something is being done, yes, only in the media are not yet publishing headlines for what they haven't caught. In Serbia, therefore, an awful lot and a large amount of meat walking and butchery is sold, suspicious smell, dubious colors and people comment. It's time to celebrate, if you don't at least go amongst people without bodyguards, go through and talk to people during the glory of what the meat that is obtained in butchers is regular. You're telling me, because of that farm in the Great Workers, the veterinary services did the whole job in three days. Her job was preventive. Her job was prevention. She had to do the job before she did it so she wouldn't do it for three days. Those three days cost the citizens of that village and the whole of Srem an awful lot. Some of them had everything they had.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48060	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48061	Let me just say that after those three days, all the citizens in the village of Radinca were compensated in full, 100%, the value of their cattle that had to be destroyed for it. That's the first thing. The second thing, I absolutely didn't say that animals should be notified, not people. Third thing, I really don't have any personal security. I don't know who you think I am, but believe me, I'm normally going down the street. I'd like to thank you for your comments, but don't make any arbitrary claims you're not familiar with.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48062	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. You want a replica again? Yeah. I'm just asking you to follow the meaning of the replica together. So, what's challenged, and what's not, without introducing new topics just for two minutes for replication. Right on line, MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48063	I don't tend to abuse my rights, really. What I'm saying is that none of this information that I've brought here is my imagination, but it's very fact-finding stuff, and it's the fact that you've actually brought things out, from your services that I've received and I stand behind every single thing I've said. Nothing is arbitrary, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48064	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48065	One more thing, if you have any knowledge that meat is somewhere in Serbia that is not adequate, please inform, because if you don't do so, it's a cover-up crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48066	National MP Dejan Mirovic, an authorised representative, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48067	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic is not here, because the first topic I will discuss under these agreements is the Youth Mobility Agreement with the Republic of France. Since he is a signator of this agreement, I think he could answer a few specific questions about this agreement, which should certainly be taken with one dose of skepticism, because at the beginning of the agreement, some formulations are used that are not quite correct. Word is, I'd say, even a little pathetic, if it were some historical friendship, etc. We think that a more appropriate formulation would be if it were a historic period when friendship existed, because not to spread the topic, certainly for the last eighty years, relations between Serbia and France were not very friendly. Just remind me what happened while he was so-called. Tito's Yugoslavia armed rebels in Algeria without talking about the 1990s. However, this is not so important, but, as far as this agreement is concerned, one incorrect definition is present again, and that definition tells us that this agreement is based, that is, under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed, as you know, on 29 April 2008. Unfortunately, nothing is clear about what is meant, is it political part of that Stabilisation and Association Agreement? In particular, is it based on article 6 that directs Serbia towards good neighbourly co-operation? It is known who is thought of after Kosovo's declaration, so-called the countries of Kosovo. Article 10, which also speaks of good neighbourly co-operation, Article 14, Article 88, and all that when you put into the context of the European Commission's report that Serbia should co-operate with so-called. Kosovo, you will understand that this is an incorrect and unclear definition that is not suitable for the present moment. Also, this agreement on youth mobility with France mentions some economic part of the SAA, so we ask what economic part is thought of? Is it meant for a transitional trade agreement that has brought losses only in this year of 100m euros and for two years 245m euros? So when you look at those definitions and you compare it to the real situation, then you see that this agreement is harmful and that's why we're not going to vote for it anyway. When specifically analyzed members of the agreement, such as one and two, the question arises how will a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who is from Kosovo Mitrovica fit into this quasi-building of an education agreement in France. Whether he will be treated as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia or as a citizen of the so-called Kosovo? So there are some misunderstandings that are not small at all and which are characteristic of this youth mobility agreement, and we have therefore expressed regret that Mr. Vice-President of the Government is not here to explain this to us, because it is obvious that it is a gap between practice, legal definitions and economics, which are used in this agreement. Also, as regards Article 3, there is already something here that has nothing to do with the population that is represented in the agreement as young people. So it's not exactly this pathetic title that it's about young people's mobility, but it's simply about ours, and I quote "employees in French employers". So the question here is whether it's an employee, for example. at the Societte General Bank? Is it that these employees in that bank who participate in the formation of interest, which are the largest in Europe after Moldova, will these employees, in fact, go to the Paris Central, where they will qualify for work? If so, it is not about the mobility of young people and there is no need for such pathetic phrases, it is about schooling, the qualification of employees of Serbian citizens working in Serbia's territory with French employers. We think it would be more sincere and more precise to define this agreement. Also, when you look at Article 3 and that definition, which clearly does not apply only to young people, the question is, in particular, what will our economy and our society in general benefit from this agreement? Will this agreement, which is so named, lead to a reduction in the external trade deficit with France, which is not negligible at all? I'm just going to say that in 2004, it was $200 million, in 2007, $280 million, and in 2008, it reached $400 million. So, only in the period from 2007 to 2008, there was an increase of 42%. You will admit that it is a huge sum for one so poor and in the European contexts of a medium-sized country. So it's not all as elegant and picturesque as the title of this agreement is, it's about a total of relations between us and France, which in economic terms are not at all favourable for the Republic of Serbia. These data indicate exactly that money is not going from France to Serbia, but in the opposite direction, and these indicators would be even worse if they had in mind that the basic "Serbian exporter" in France is "Sartid", which is US-owned. Also, the second basic exporter to France is "Tiger" from Piroth, which, as you know, is 100 per cent owned by Michelin from France. Also with economic, political and on the other hand, you have another absurd situation for companies from France, such as Tarket, which is in Bačka Palanca, to export and use our contract, which is unique with the Russian Federation and exports from Serbia to the Russian Federation, using a free trade agreement and further transferring profits to France. You will admit that this is an absurd situation, that this situation does not contribute to better economic positioning, precisely these young people discussed in this agreement. We suspect that this agreement will contribute to a boom in relation to France and the Republic of Serbia, because, I remind you, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia has already concluded several agreements with the Chamber of Commerce in Brittany, Strasbourg and Alsace. We have also exported to other EU Member States without customs since 2000. However, due to administrative barriers and precisely these non-tariff standards, the deficit in relation to the EU is growing and higher. Here we have to make it clear, as far as our foreign trade with France is concerned, we are mostly importing products from the automotive industry. Of course, when reading Article 5, paragraph 5. The agreement on 500 young people, we come to the conclusion that this agreement, you will admit, should have called the '500 quota agreement for entry into France', not some definition of young people, because in Serbia, as you know, there are several million young people. There are only 500 people here in particular, and there is a need to be honest and concrete about it. Finally, as far as this agreement is concerned, when you look at Article 6(3), you will see that the French government invests within three years of 650 thousand euros. When you compare those 650 thousand euros with these 400 million a year that go to France or compare that amount within three years, then you will have a situation of 1300 to one, to the benefit of France and to Serbia, as regards the transfer of funds. Also, what I have said confirms the reasoning of this agreement, which states that it is a variety of and complete co-operation and that the agreement is now covering employees in enterprises, means in French businesses operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, the agreement is, to say the least, harmful and we will not support the agreement in the voting day. The second agreement that we have on the agenda today is very interesting because it is about the so-called Agreement. European sky or colloquial 'open sky agreement'. I will remind the minister, I am sorry that Mr Mr Mrkonjic is not here, that it is precisely the agreement signed by the Republic of Serbia on 29 June 2006 and ratified on 13 May 2009. This agreement is an excellent example of what "Aki Communitre" means in practice to us. It's nice to talk about some virtual reality, that it will bring us an improvement in the economy, putting on the feet of our air carrier, but in practice it's different and it has to be recognised without any sharpness, without any phrases about the EU, without an alternative, but look at the fact that, as you know, two and a half years ago, the Russian airline Aeroflot made the best offer for JAT, that is public information, that all employees are being taken over, that the company retains its name, to take over the debt of 200 million euros, to preserve existing lines and to develop the regional flights of JAT. What happened? Following the recognition of ministers from the previous government, the European Commission has precisely requested, due to this agreement that we are considering today, more specifically its annex, that the Republic of Serbia reject the most favourable offer, which was the Russian airline's offer. After that, a privatization advisor from France was appointed, it's Rothschild Bank. You've seen, the spokesman for Aeroflots has announced that they're giving up the tender. A month ago in this assembly, we were considering a 50m-euro JAT loan, guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. So, instead of JAT being put on its feet and working with a company that has 11 million passengers a year, which co-operates with the Sky Team, which is also one of the largest systems in the world, we have come, because of the phrase that the EU has no alternative, in the situation that already the overindebted country is taking a 50 million loan to preserve, so to speak, JAT on the surface. We think it's harmful and that's why we won't vote for this agreement, because we believe it leads to the collapse of JAT's capacity. Of course, to hide this truth from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that this is a harmful agreement, in the light of the bill, we have phrases about the European sky and the phrase that the agreement will lead to the establishment of depoliticalism in this area. Now I'm asking you specifically if it's depolitical to reject the best offer in the tender because of political conditions? We also have in mind the law of the phrase that the European Sky Agreement will lead to protection from the monopoly position. Is the monopoly position when the European Commission insists that EU companies take over JAT, not Aeroflot, which has made the best offer. It is also absolutely absurd to state in the light of the law that the agreement on so-called. to avoid state aid in the European sky. What avoidance of state aid if you take a 50m-euro loan guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia? So it's not a loan taken by a private firm, it's just guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. So it's state aid. It is particularly absurd and shows what "Aki Communitre" is in essence and in practice, the fact that even in the context of the European Sky Agreement, it has been ratified by all signatories, means from the Western Balkans, which, except for Romania, are not EU members without EU member states ratifying the agreement. It is a double standard, which is at the expense of the Republic of Serbia, that I do not use some more difficult words, because anyone who is neutrally observing these laws and everything that happens around JAT and so on. implement "Aki Communitre" and the Free Sky Agreement clearly on what it is. It is particularly controversial, from a legal point of view, that in the light of this agreement, the Republic of Serbia will agree to a binding interpretation of the EU Court of Justice. You know, anyone who has read any textbook on European law at the Faculty of Law, for example, Introduction to European Law, knows that just the biggest EU members are avoiding the application of European Court of Justice decisions. I'll only give you three examples that show that we're right. In 1992, when the Mastricht Treaty was adopted, Germany amended its basic law, Article 23, and a solution came – Germany's constitutional court is above the European Community's justice court, now the EU. So Germany is the first to disrespect the decisions of the European Court of Justice, if they do not comply with the Constitution, the basic law of Germany, and we are directly entering our legal system, although we are not a member of the EU, the binding interpretation of the European Court of Justice. It is an absurdity for which there is no justification, from a legal point of view, from an economic point of view, there is no excuse and can only be found to be a phrase that the EU has no alternative to both Serbia's economic interests and the political and constitutional system of the Republic of Serbia. It's a fact that can't be challenged. Also, I'm going to give you another example from Germany right now. The Federal Financial Court in Germany refused to implement the EU directive directly. Please, Germany is a country that gives 20% of the EU budget, Germany is the one behind the European Central Bank, behind the euro, behind everything that is now the EU and they do not apply EU directives if it does not comply with their laws and their basic law. Then why are we obliged to apply the binding interpretation of the European Court of Justice for such a harmful contract that drove us away from a 400m-euro investor from the Russian Federation? There's no excuse for that, no economic, no legal, no political. Also, it can be said that Germany is a much stronger state, has a much stronger state than us and the economy, but it is possible that even Poland, which is in huge financial problems, which has a $200 billion debt that has increased since EU accession, i.e. In 2005, the Polish Constitutional Court ruled that the EU is not a supranational organisation and that Poland has entered bilateral relations with each EU member individually? We reject such a solution in the light of this law and it is more than harmful to our interests. Finally, in order not to make it seem like we're just criticising it, we believe that this visa waiver agreement with Kazakhstan is good, and in this sense the visit of the President of the Republic was a good step, but when you look at the fact that this visit is within the framework of foreign policy, that the EU has no alternative, everything he has done there in Kazakhstan, as far as the economic and other interests of the Republic of Serbia are concerned, above all I think of the free trade agreement, falls into the water only when one fact is considered. I'm sure you know he's a member of 133. The Treaty of Rome on the establishment of the European Community, now the EU, prescribed that each EU member must have a single trade policy and a unique relationship with other countries. Once Serbia enters the EU on a foggy day, all free trade contracts, which bring us economic benefits above all, and where the only markets where we can sell something, Russia, Belarus and now to a lesser extent Kazakhstan, will fall into the water because Article 133 will have to be applied. The Treaty of Rome. Finally, as far as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights is concerned, I will say only one thing, that it is good, but that the best example of it is not to be applied is Article 6 on a fair trial, where you have an example of Vojislav Seselj, which is also highlighted by the Russian Federation in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48068	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search, the application for a word, and in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the DSS parliamentary group, the Prosperity Group of Serbia and the SRS parliamentary group. We move to debate, and according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the drafts of the law set out in points 8 to 32 of the agenda. Donka Banovic was first reported, followed by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48069	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, today we are under reviewing 25 draft laws on the validation of laws, conventions and agreements under this point. There are different types of contracts we're talking about today. Our fellow mathematician has calculated that if all MPs were to talk about these 25 points, that would be three seconds each. Since I am not so capable of doing so in such a short time, I will focus on two draft laws, i.e. confirming two proposals for an agreement. The first is a bill confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus on social security. The agreement was signed in May 2010. It was signed by Minister Jeremic. The second is a similar agreement, only with another country, I stress the words 'on social security' of the bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Belgium. These two agreements are practically comprehensive international agreements: pension and disability insurance, labour injury and professional illnesses and laws, i.e. motherhood agreements and unemployment benefits. The agreements are based on widely accepted principles, the experiences of our country in this area, on the one hand, as well as the standards foreseen by one EU regulation, which regulates the social security of migrant workers. I am concerned and I have a serious suspicion that the government of the Republic of Serbia will be able to comply with these agreements as agreed by these two states, because these agreements speak about the social security of a number of people who are not citizens of Serbia, but who live in Serbia. How can a socially irresponsible government ensure the safety of someone in this country? The government of Mirko Cvetkovic cannot provide social security to Serbian citizens, and these agreements undertake to provide people who are not Serbian citizens with some kind of social security. It is almost forgotten that during its formation, the current government called itself socially responsible, so in May 2008, we MPs have had the opportunity to hear directly from the Ministry of Expose for this only in the formation of the Government, and it is known that each exposure is a practical plan and a programme of work of the future government. Not only did MPs have the opportunity to hear it, but all Serbian citizens heard it. I'm just going to read, or quote a few parts of that exposé, which speaks of this, in formation, of the socially responsible government. I quote: "One of the priorities of the Serbian government is strengthening social responsibility towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially the most endangered category of the population. ''The second sentence: 'The goal of the Government is that in the coming years the widest layers of the population are participating in the results of economic progress''. When after two and a half years you read this exposé, even all of its parts, not just this one, then it sounds like you're reading a funny story because there's neither progress nor social responsibility. We recently had budget rebalances. Is it progress when a government in its budget has a deficit, or a hole of 120 billion dinars and plans to sell its most important resource, telecommunications, to fill that hole? It's neither responsibility nor progress. What has the Serbian population received since Tadic, Dinkic and Dacic ruled Serbia? Not that he didn't get better standards, but there was a serious deterioration, so instead of 200,000 new jobs, 200 thousand people were out of work. The other day, official results came up when it comes to poverty in Serbia, so we learned that more than 700,000 Serbian citizens live below the poverty line and that poverty line is determined according to UN criteria. So, since 2008, the number of poor in Serbia has increased. Since the adoption of the Poverty Reduction Strategy, in 2003, certain parameters and different areas have been followed precisely and how much reduction or poverty has occurred in these categories of population. Since 2009, there has been an increase in the number of poor in Serbia. That's not an answer. Also, the official latest results say, it is from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, that the standard of citizens fell by as much as 25% in 2010. Since the beginning of the year, life supplies have been raised by more than 11% on average, while salaries have actually been reduced by more than 13%. So the standard of living has dropped by one quarter and 25% in this year alone. I know that citizens understand very well what I'm talking about because they feel it and they feel it on their skin. That is why I am suspected that this government can provide someone with social security because these are the results of this socially responsible government for 2010 when it comes to citizens of Serbia. It is clear to all that inflation is much higher than planned, and the value of the euro is constantly falling. The DS leader and Serbian President, Mr Tadic, told Serbian citizens that the standard would certainly rise and that it would be better in 2012. He also recently informed us, daily informs us, with some gatherings, about his thoughts, plans, etc., that the anti-crisis measures of this government have practically prevented the bankruptcy of the state, although a year and a half ago he and the Prime Minister said that this crisis is a major developmental opportunity for Serbia. We also heard other promises when it comes to the EU, at least different dates. The other day we heard from someone expensive that Serbia will become an EU member in 10 years. So Tadic promises to improve standards in 2012, but only if Serbian citizens vote for him and the DS, since regular elections are scheduled in early 2012. So it is already being seen and there is already a new slogan of these choices, and that will be – in a better life with us, because in 2012, we, dear Serbian citizens, will provide you with a better life, and until then – who are the bad guys, who are both.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48070	Nine minutes of MP time was used. The word is made by MP Zoran Antic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48071	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, very much agreement, very much ratification of the memorandum of understanding. There are 25 of them in total within this agenda point, and I think it takes a lot more attention to the way it is drawn up. I would remind you that we had one item on the agenda relating to the state administration, in which we had only three members of the law and we discussed it all day, these 25, which is a ratification, which I said, we'll also have one day to discuss. The fact is that when you look at the colour of this agenda point consisting of scientific and technological co-operation with Italy, the United States and Austria, which I would like to talk about most, when you see that you have a agenda that includes agriculture, air traffic, ecology, human rights, to us from SNS, it seems, however, that we really need to get serious about putting together the agenda and that all these ratifications are much more serious, because they themselves impose some obligations on the state of Serbia for which we are not sure that we can respond as a country. To go back to what might have been a priority for me, given the state of the economy and the state of standards today in Serbia. These are the agreements on scientific and technical co-operation between Serbia and Italy, Austria and the United States. I have to say that the situation in the field of technology in Serbia is very bad, that we have allocated a lot of money from the budget to the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, that we have also taken a few loans, if you remember, in the spring, and very serious ones, in order to improve the situation in this area, but unfortunately we do not notice in practice that we have any shift in the application of technology, the application of science in our economy, in our industry, and that unfortunately, we tap into the place. We are one of the countries that, according to some indicators such as the absorption of new technologies or the sophistication of the production process, we belong to countries that are among the lowest among the worst. We are located in 120 places by some studies, which ranked 130 countries in the world. We have a very bad import structure. Only about 10% of these modest foreign funds, which we can afford, are invested in new technologies. These new technologies do not enter into our production process, or even reduce their participation year after year, which will significantly affect the further development of the economy, the quality of our export structure and the decline of living standards in some future period. With these agreements, we agree to form joint teams, scientific and research teams, we agree that the mobility of scientific associates will be significantly greater, to form a joint commission, but unfortunately Serbia has so far failed to show that such agreements can benefit. Most often, this ends in a way that our young researchers opt to continue their research work in some of the EU countries. We are in a situation where, when it comes to unsupervised technology, therefore, the outflow of highly educated experts, we stand very badly, that, when it comes to tangible technology and comparison between the two, the balance is very bad, because we mostly import technology, and we very little manage to design in our country, and even through the privatisation process, we have made a good part of those enterprises, which could make a certain shift in this area, shut down or let them fail. We have a very bad situation when it comes to technology and the inflow of foreign and direct investment. That's what one of this government's promises, which has not been made. We don't have any serious technological progress. Foreign direct investment decreases from year to year. This year, I think, only about 500 million euros. A good part of these funds goes into service, goes to trade, goes to the financial sector and very little directly into production by creating a new value, a value that we can go to foreign markets. All in all, it is obvious that we do not have a serious strategy of technological development, that we do not have a serious strategy and in scientific and research work, that what the vision of this government does not meet the needs of citizens and the needs of the economy and that, in future, when we accept scientific and research co-operation, we have to take much more care of Serbia's interests and the interests of our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48072	Six minutes of MP time was used. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Zoran Masic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48073	It's very difficult when a large amount of legislation is collected that has something ratified, so today I'm going to focus on two draft laws. Of course, I'm not going to call on the RS Constitution, because if I were to call on the RS Constitution and, God forbid, I'd start reading some member of the RS Constitution, they'd immediately take my notice, as it was two years ago today in that old building. We are going to do something that is probably most important in this set of draft laws, which is this law that changes a previous law that has ratified the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms with all the accompanying protocols, and there are 11, and even I think there are others in the announcement. This proposal for a law practically deletes Article 3. The Law on Confirmation, which is a member of which we have celebrated the relevant reserves in the ratification of this European Convention. Just to remind you, something that has never happened to any country has happened to Serbia-Montenegro, we were admitted to the Council of Europe during the state of emergency in 2003. In 2005, we ratified this convention, put this reserve in line with the convention because of our, at the time, applicable, the Law on Infringements and the Law on Administrative Disputes. The first was a prison sentence that is not according to standards if the administrative authorities say so, and the judge for the violations was an administrative authority, until we changed it a year ago when the second Law on Courts for Infringements was passed. As regards the Law on Administrative Disputes, the public debate, i.e. the possibility of a debate before the Administrative Court, was problematic. I think this is an opportunity to point a little closer to the provisions of this Convention and what our relationship to this Convention is. I hope we'll talk a little bit about this convention this afternoon, because on 9 December 2008, when the government's representatives boasted about the new set of judicial laws, how all the best laws were, I said that nothing was wrong with the standards, with the principles of independence of the judiciary, but then. But let's start with this convention. There is an art in this Convention. Article 5 6, right to freedom and security and the right to a fair trial. I would just draw the public's attention to the right to a fair and public debate within a reasonable time frame of Article 6. The reasonable time limit shall be assessed in each specific case. There are several tests to control it. However, eight years in custody without a first-degree verdict, and the end of a first-degree procedure is a world record. World records of human rights violations are in The Hague. Since I have an obligation to remind you of some things, and it is related to one of the next points on the agenda, which is the European Convention on Extradition, Germany is one of the first states to pass the Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal. Do you know what they wrote in that law? They will deliver everything to The Hague, but they will never deliver their citizens. They'll never deliver their citizen. Why didn't they go on with their co-operation laws? Because they respect their constitution and respect their legal order, and if they are the founders of what is called the EU. Let's move on. This is for the public, since we pointed it out, but what it's worth. This is where another kind of force is demonstrated. The Protocol to Convention No 11 of 1952 in Article 3 speaks of the right to free elections. Of course, I'm not saying this because of the government's present representatives, because they're in charge of a completely different matter, but it would be good if you pointed out these in the Administrative Court, and then at the Department of Justice, and then at the Department of Human Rights, all in a row that they would have to read a little bit of what's written here. It says – the high foreign parties – these are states that have signed the Convention – undertake to hold free elections in appropriate time spaces by secret voting – that is, at four or five years – under conditions that provide free expression of the opinion of the people – no one is brought to the polls, but with a call and a pen comes and votes there – when choosing legal bodies. As you can see, the international standard is not what you've done here for the past few years -- who owns the mandate. No one owns the mandate, no one, but no one, you're pushing. I would remind you of Protocol 4, which speaks of freedom of movement, I hope Mrs. Komic, since she is a creepy human rights fighter, will remind Mr. Sarkozy that there is a member of this protocol. Let's go to protocol six, and that's what we ratified. It's also the abolition of the death penalty. You could say that to these English, German Minister of Justice and others in the EU who are considering the possibility of a preventive arrest and the prevention of the killing of potential terrorists. These are now some new thoughts within the EU. It's very dangerous there, when they put a finger on the forehead, because anything can go through this file. If you don't believe me, I'd like to invite you to consult with, say, professor. The Grubboy guy. He wrote several books about it, where he criticises the EU. Although I find it strange, knowing that he swore more care in the EU in the DS, he changed his mind. They've probably hit these revolutionary years and left something for the future. Protocol No 12 – general prohibition of discrimination on all grounds. I won't read to you, since what's worth it, you'll give me a ticket. Protocol 13 — Elimination of the death penalty, etc. To return to what is most important to us, and this will happen in the afternoon debate, you will have to listen in the future, not only to hear, listen, but also to act on what warns you, in time, the SRS, because obviously, as far as human rights standards are concerned, the definitions are with us, and strict respect for these principles lies here in these parliamentary benches, not on this second, because there is a criterion for deciding takes something completely different. Let me remind you that this European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights implies that we all fight in every place for human rights. If we have our citizens in The Hague, then all RS citizens are obliged, especially when they see this obvious injustice and violation of the elementary procedural rights, to raise their voice, to say, stop killing Seselj. In that sense, I comment, Mrs. Komic, this law on the validation of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings in application of biology and medicine, 'The Convention on Human Rights in Biomedicine'. We're ratifying it today. I'm just directing you to Article 5 where you're talking about patient consent and Article 10, that's private life and the right to information. It is said this way, in the position of Article 2 of Article 10 — everyone is authorized to know all the information collected about their health. The only man on planet Earth is Vojislav Seselj, who is not given a report from medical intervention, does not report his health status. Everyone else can know – and the Secretariat, the journalists, and he must not know what they find, nor what is done. When the SRS makes a fuss, the Defence Committee of Vojislav Seselj, then after two months, gets some information, what they did when they operated on him. This government, pro-European, shut up, they have nothing to say. Finally, the third in the selection of these draft laws is the Law amending the Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on Extradition. I have to visit you that this convention here has been ratified since 2001. Then some reserves were put, too, in Article 3. The purpose of these reserves was not to deliver the citizen to a foreign state. What are you doing with this shift now? You are terminating that reserve to deliver citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia to foreign judicial authorities, in order to be tried. The component of this is something that's probably coming up at the next session. These are some agreements with the Republic of Croatia and BiH, which will allow you to do some things that are illegal and unconstitutional at the beginning. Do you know that BiH also has a BiH court, which is not foreseen by the Dayton Agreement and there every day someone, by choice, is elected and punished by the Serb. They're running some errands. Twenty years after some events, apparently, it doesn't go out of date, but, by the way, that's how it works. That will also be the case when you ratify the two agreements with Croatia and with BiH. You refugee Serbs from Republika Srpska must not seek your apartments and your properties, because if you insist, you will be on that list in no time. These, they said, are Mesic and Sanader, reporting US dispatches – Tadic is theirs. They're bragging. That's what I said two years ago and I got a ticket. Now I don't want to talk, so you don't punish me. What I said about Tadic is confirmed by Mesic and Sanader, through Americans, the supreme god on planet Earth, whom you respect and especially appreciate. Please, we have no basis to pass this law. Why? Because here you are referring to the EU Council Decision. Excuse me, please, who is this? Who are they? What would make us bound? They do not respect their decisions in the EU. The French don't respect any decision that doesn't suit them. The English don't respect the decisions, they don't even know where Europe is. Not interested at all. The cohesion factor of their strength, stability and political influence is – who will continue to spit on Serbs. That's what they've been doing for 20 years. What else do they have in common? Monetary policy? It's not. Fiscal? It's not at EU level. Credit policy? It's not. Regulatory bodies? It's not. Something about agriculture, so they don't cause big protests, so farmers don't throw tomatoes, watermelons, slaughter cattle, throw them eggs, etc. But that's another topic. That's not what I'm talking about. I took these three laws to comment. As far as medicine is concerned, you can see for yourself, we already have those standards. I did not want to comment on the reasoning of this bill, because it is contradictory of four additional protocols with regard to this health-related convention. I think those protocols should have been ratified, even though they are an integral part of our order, based on some constitutional provisions that we've taken upon ourselves, independent of those protocols. I think the protocols had to go as an integral part of this convention. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48074	The used time of the parliamentary group is 13 minutes and 50 seconds. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić. After him, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48075	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, co-workers in the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will base my debate on these few agreements signed by our country in the veterinary and agriculture fields. At first, I would like to say that the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia supported these signed agreements. I think that these professional agreements are of interest to one profession and service as veterinary. Certainly, through the concreteisation of co-operation with individual countries, it can be much easier to monitor the import and export of livestock products, live cattle. I would also like to see as many agreements signed in the veterinary field as possible in the coming period, and that, above all, means from the EU, given that we tend to be a candidate in the near term, and hopefully in some foreseeable time and EU member. It will certainly be for our veterinary service of great importance such agreements with EU countries, especially as we prefer to export most of our livestock products to these markets. Certainly no other markets are negligible, above all, the Arab Peninsula market. That's why I think that contracts with Tunisia or Egypt, and in the coming period, I hope with some other countries, will be important for the export of junk meat and sheep to those areas, because we used to be esteemed exporters in those markets. In order to achieve export performance, certain other conditions must also be met, as regards these areas, so-called. Halal standards. What I'm saying is that the poor model of privatisation in our country is a veterinary profession and that primary veterinary service is operational in one bad state. This situation has not yet been properly recovered and stabilised, although from year to year, in an organisational sense and in technical terms, efforts seem to be made, but there are still problems in the functioning of operational services. First of all, in terms of equipment, and on the other hand in terms of education, demand for modern flows, organisation of work and ultimately implementation of preventive measures. In the next period, the Ministry of Agriculture, above all, must make more efforts to address these problems and achieve as effective as possible operational veterinary services. Certainly this upgrade, a specialist veterinary service, and it is in some way in stagnation. There should be more done in the next period in terms of better equipment and more efficiency, above all in animal health control and implementation of the measures programme, but also in other preventive measures. In the end, I want to say that our veterinary inspection, which does a key thing in the operation of animal and animal products, and ultimately controls what enters the country and what comes out, and it also needs to be strengthened in the next period. I think it's also a number that needs to be strengthened. According to my knowledge, there is some approval to receive a certain number of veterinary inspectors in the next period. It must also be done even more to educate veterinary inspectors, with the new achievements of the veterinary profession and science in the world. This is exactly the kind of agreement that the state is signing can be beneficial in this regard. What I also want to say, and what has happened over the past two or three weeks, in these past two or three weeks, and has shaken the veterinary public, and others, above all, pigmeat producers, is the phenomenon of swine fever on one farm. This is a serious blow for both the veterinary profession and for pig growers and pig meat production. I hope that it will not have a direct impact on approved authorisations for the export of meat products and, in particular, will not have an impact on the plans made in terms of the eradication of swine fever, because we haven't had a case of registered that dangerous infectious disease in pigs in some four years, and then suddenly the disease appears on the farm. It is certainly for manufacturers, eventually and the country to have such an infectious disease, first of all, in the organized mass production on the farm. I hope it's well learned how it came about and that they're defined, i.e. found guilty, because I think this country must go in terms of the launch of concrete proceedings against those who are working on damage to the state and livestock production and allowing this infectious disease to occur on such a farm. According to the knowledge I have, unfortunately, although the Ministry has made one concrete report for the Committee on Agriculture, but until today I have not had it in my hands and so I do not have all the facts, but I hope that the operational veterinary service is not to blame and that the culprits are most likely, if it is the veterinary service, just those who have observed that farm and other factors that provided all those preventive measures on that farm. The regulations require, when such a disease occurs, that killing all animals is mandatory and that I think the veterinary administration has done and the veterinary inspection has done so and that the eradication on the farm itself is being brought to an end. Certainly, as a result of the prevention of enlargement, euthanasia is also necessary, meaning killing animals and other owners, especially those close to that farm. I also think that the costs of those owners whose pigs were killed were justly compensated, and they carried out all preventive measures. For the control of a disease like this, it is also an obligation for the state not to save on money, but to implement as effectively as possible a programme of measures in as short a time as possible and to compensate all those who need to be compensated, meaning that they are not responsible for the occurrence of an infectious disease. I would like to say that if our country plans to enter into a pig plague eradication programme next year, which means that it stops the vaccination, that there is a commitment by the state, and above all, the Ministry of Agriculture, to provide sufficient resources, because in the event of a swine fever occurring elsewhere, in some other producers, only when it ceases to be vaccinated means absolutely killing all animals and possibly so on. Ring vaccination. So I hope that the minister and his associates will keep an eye on the building of a balance sheet or budget of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2011 and that the necessary funds will also be provided for such measures and procedures if new cases of infectious diseases occur. We've had these past two weeks, a massive flood in western Serbia, where a certain number of animals have also died. I think the public needs to be more specific about this, and Drina has also poured herself into the territory of the Republic of BiH and there is potentially a risk of passing some infectious diseases from that area to ours, and vice versa. I know that perhaps a month ago a contract was signed on this co-operation in the field of veterinary and with the Republic of BiH, and in that sense I think that concrete co-operation with the service of the Republic was taken, administratively because of these floods, to prevent the possible transfer of some infectious diseases to our country or the transfer from our country to the neighbourhood. Finally, what I want to say is that our veterinary service and the profession in this country would be better, more organised, more quality, in the extreme and richer, it is necessary that our livestock production, in this country, be much higher, because, unfortunately, over the past few years, we have a stagnation of total income and livestock production. In fact, it fell to about 30% compared to the total volume of agricultural production. A few years ago, it was 40%, and I think that this negative trend must be stopped, first of all, in cattle production, but also in pig and livestock production, and that exactly the new 2011 budget, the Ministry of Agriculture must be persistent in the demand that this minimum of 5% of the total budget be realized. So, that agricultural producers in this country get these 35-40 billion dinars to improve, but above all for stabilising production, especially livestock, because only by quality production and raising and production volume, but above all quality, our agricultural production will be much more competitive on the European and world market and instead of three billion exports achieved in this year, we can already achieve six billion in 2011 or 2012. The government, and ultimately of you MPs, depends on whether you support that budget of at least 5% of the total agricultural production budget. We from the opposition are certainly up for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48076	Thirteen minutes and 30 seconds the time of the parliamentary group was used. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48077	First of all, I would like to thank Professor Mašić for his detailed explanation for the measures that veterinary services need and which she has taken to suppress swine fever. What I can say is that we sent you the report, since it hasn't arrived yet, you'll allow me to hand it to you personally now. What's also important to point out is that on the first day after Drina was poured out in the most endangered places, we increased veterinary control, so there could be no outbreak of any disease, God forbid, from the zoonosy in the endangered area.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48078	The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, followed by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48079	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I will take advantage of a part of the time that belongs to the SRS, which concerns the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and a few words is about extradition. As far as the extradition is concerned, it is very clear and fully explained by Mr Zoran Krasic. With that I would like to remind myself that the first Extradition Act was passed by Belgium in 1833, and later the extradition law was passed by some other countries of Europe. As for this Convention, which concerns the protection of fundamental and human freedoms and rights, I would remain here on those segments relating precisely to the protection of human rights and freedoms. Human rights and freedoms are written and spoken more than ever because human freedoms and rights are equally subject to philosophical and legal, political, literary and other research. The history of human freedoms and rights in the broadest sense reaches all the way to the oldest preserved written, legal monuments, yet the issue of human freedoms and rights has been particularly updated in Serbia since 5 October 2000. New age's understanding and modern treatment of human rights is, in a legal sense, the product of an amended legal consciousness, which is in its own time formed in the French Revolution, namely, by the exercise of a power that has until then been reserved exclusively for the very peak that depicts the monarch, is replaced by the opposite principle according to which all citizens within the rights and politics are included in a circle of legitimate interests. Such an effect and such understanding are the true fruit of the declaration of rights, of man and citizen who established France and adopted its assembly in 1789. The declaration is the idea of the 18th century Enlightenment Political Philosophy of the 18th century on natural rights that are older than any positive right, the idea of natural inalienable and sacred rights translated into rights whose protection represents the basic and primary meaning of every political community in favour of the rule of law. Secondly, the idea of the natural and legal origin of basic human rights is most clearly stated when it is respected or disregarded until its abolition is assessed against the legitimacy of the given order. So it depends on the ground to the ground. Most of the Western states have become liberal. And before they became democratic, the most important assets of such societies include laws subordinated and limited government, guaranteed rights of citizens to freedom of speech, proper legal procedure, freedom of assembly and association, a judicial system with the necessary independence, therefore, the judiciary, from the legislative and executive authorities. Today, it is hard to imagine that a country that does not build human rights into its most important legal documents, in particular the constitution and laws and does not commit, provides valid guarantees that it must be respected in writing. The essence of the rule of law of the newer era or the rule of law is that human freedoms are incomparable; therefore, human rights also include those rights that do not owe to the state and its government, therefore, rights which are independent of the state and which are created by the state. Therefore, modern rule of law must also ensure that such human rights, such as primarily human rights of moral nature, are respected if countries truly want to bind themselves to the basic principles of democracy, the rule of law, in other words, human rights belong to all people without distinction in religion, race and gender. Such civil and human equality simultaneously implies both legal and political equality. Legal equality means that all are equal before the law, and political equality primarily relates to governance of the state community. Although everything seems to have been said in advance, the already well-known facts say that it is not. Modern democracies, based on the principles of rule of law, still face major problems today to ensure civil and political rights as fully as possible in the practice of their citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation is even more difficult in our country because the current government is extremely prone to violation of civil and human rights, and particularly to the dramatic, disastrous impact of the "Sabbe" action when about 12,000 people in Serbia were arrested. So the state of Serbia must build a democratic society. The state of Serbia must ensure democratic rights. Not only formally through different regulations, it must be ensured in practice. One of the most important laws to regulate the issue of fundamental freedoms and the rights of citizens is the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure. If you want to prove to others in the world what democracy and what a system Serbia has today, it must be viewed through procedural law, and above all through the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws, it is meant by laws on criminal proceedings and the laws on administrative proceedings. What is important is that I point out, and that is that the European Convention for the Protection of Human and Fundamental Rights has regulated and normed in Article 4(2), to see how it is written – none of whom can be required to perform forced or compulsory work. Article 5(3) – anyone who has been arrested or detained in accordance with the provisions laid down in point (c) of Article 1 of this Article shall be immediately brought before a judge or other body authorised to exercise judicial power and shall be entitled to trial within a period of time or to be released for trial. Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a lack of respect for the European Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms. For eight years, Dr. Vojislav Seselj has been in custody. His rights are being violated and at the same time this Convention is being violated by the European Convention, and the seat of that court is in Europe. Article 6 of this Convention norms that everyone has the right to discuss his case practically and publicly within a reasonable period of time. Is Professor Vojislav Seselj being tried within a reasonable period of time, and is evidence suggested and presented within a reasonable time? No, I don't. This is a crime and those who think so and who do so, and thus lead the procedure towards Dr Vojislav Seselj are villains and they are doing damage to Serbia, and above all they do harm Prof. Vojislav Seselj, because they do not adhere to the above-mentioned conventions on human rights and freedoms. You see, please, when it comes to Professor Vojislav Seselj, in Article 6 of this Convention, anyone accused of a crime will be presumed innocent except for Dr Vojislav Seselj. In the indictment against Dr Vojislav Seselj, it is said that Dr Vojislav Seselj committed crimes, however, the indictment must stand, lawyers who know criminal law and procedural law must, above all, say: suspected or allegedly committed crimes. And in the indictment of Dr Vojislav Seselj, a verdict has already been made against that indictment as it is written. Article 7 – no one can be found guilty of a criminal offence caused by an act or by an act which, at the time it was committed, did not constitute a criminal offence under national or international law. The specific case is the same for Dr Vojislav Seselj, because there was no regulation that Vojislav Seselj was reportedly on the spot for those fiery speeches, often mentioned, committed some crime, not prescribed at the scene when the events were on former SFRY territory and were not in national or international law. What happened? The international court, which has no legality or legitimacy, nor has jurisdiction, has taken over the authority to write provisions and norms of material law -- which will constitute a criminal act, whether it will be a crime for war crimes, whether for genocide, for a joint venture or for hate speech. So, that is, I must say, subsequently granted to The Hague tribunal, which has no legitimacy, and that court has not been established, as has been established by the International Criminal Court. Everyone has the right to freedom of expression, that's what Article 9. Conventions on the rights and freedoms of man. Dr. Vojislav Seselj is being accused and burdened, besides the fact that he's been making fire speeches. Imagine, the fiery speeches were made by Dr. Vojislav Seselj and let's judge him. Everyone spoke at the entire globe in election campaigns and presidents, and governments, and candidates, both senators and ministers. They go to campaigns and they can express their views freely. However, this is all just forgotten and bypassed, and in a concrete case against Dr Vojislav Seselj, one has been led against a very capable lawyer, a man who knows history well, a man who is one of the best lawyers and who has succeeded, defending himself, in the process against Slobodan Milosevic to witness and to challenge 90% of the indictment that applied to Slobodan Milosevic. The trial of Dr Vojislav Seselj of eight years has not been recorded in court practice in any country, on any continent. What's our government doing? Why does the state, whose citizen is Dr Vojislav Seselj, under national law, not declare itself and do not seek and require that the trial be brought to an end and that Dr Vojislav Seselj be released from false charges, that false witnesses, forgers, that those who have been bribed and in the case against Slobodan Milosevic and those who are being bribed against Dr Vojislav Seselj are not taken as the basic evidence for the determination or giving of a certain criminal and legal sanction? Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, I will not take the time of my colleagues, just to mention that we in the federal government in 2000 have prepared a new criminal code, where we have paid particular attention to the protection of human freedoms and rights under the new Code of Criminal Procedure. In detail, the Code of Criminal Procedure has improved the number of rights of our citizens, especially when it comes to the repression of certain authorities. To mention what a democracy in one state looks like, take the law of a state on criminal proceedings, and how the repressive authorities, I mean the police, the prosecution and the court, according to their fellow citizens, and what measures are being taken and in what way? So, according to the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, we can say that it was compared with all European countries in continental and European law, based on such comparison, through the Institute of Comparative Law, we received one document, i.e. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which was later changed five times, but at the expense of the rights and freedom of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48080	The word has an MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48081	In this joint joint joint debate, we have 25 laws on confirming the agreement. In the time I have chosen to talk about point 32. It is a multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States, as well as the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 on the establishment of a common European aviation area. The only topic I want to talk about in this time is actually the preconditions and inclusion of Serbia in the common European aviation area. By applying this agreement, the Republic of Serbia expects to ensure free access to the common market, according to the reasons, both MPs and the Serbian public assure us that the conclusion of this agreement is a prerequisite for the Western Balkan countries to be involved in the work of this European Air Safety Agency. However, the question is, if in Article 3. You have an agreement that says that for the implementation of this law, the departments of transport, finance, environmental protection, labour and social policy, economic and regional development, trade and services, justice affairs, the Republic Bureau of Statistics and the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, who is so wrong and superficially, above all, aware of the obligations Serbia has to include and join such an agreement? Whether simply listing the ministries that have some competences regarding this agreement, and without defining which areas it will be involved in applying this agreement, really speak of us as a unit of products adopting laws and that the government thus understands its obligation to join the EU and to accept such agreements. I really can't understand that all public authorities, the listed ministries that really need to be included in the implementation of this agreement, must be engaged in this way, not to be defined by the domain of jurisdiction. I believe that, besides those listed there is, for example, a flight control agency, which will certainly be involved in this business and not listed. Then, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, unforgivable. Why isn't he listed? The Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and many other entities, because it is obvious that someone who will look after the establishment of a European aviation area must include in the work of these ministries, i.e. the authorities of the administration, which I have listed or which are: neither the agency, nor the administration, nor the fish, nor the girl, but it is important that they benefit from the property of the Serbian state, some funds that the budget has no control over. It is necessary that these agreements, I speak specifically of this, are prescribed precisely what is the jurisdiction of each body individually. If in the house you share tasks with your younger and older son and daughter, but you don't say what is whose obligation, at least what will you expect, it's that the other person expects someone to finish the job that exists. We have jurisdiction, but we don't know who or what it's for or what it's supposed to do. Is this elemental logic, to this extent, lost in the pursuit of state affairs, that even when we join these agreements, when we only have two members to write with an agreement, we are not able to do it right? This law provides, for example, for the Civil Aviation Directorate to be involved in the implementation of the agreement. We recently passed the Air Traffic Act, which was prescribed that the regulations would be a sublegal act to bring the Directorate. My dear gentlemen, you know that the provision is unconstitutional and that it is, as such, the subject of a decision, before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, because the Directorate cannot pass a sublaw without a principle previously prescribed. And what's going to happen? By revoking such sublegal acts, we are questioning not only the accession to this agreement which, by the way, is not yet in place on purpose for many other countries that are members of the European Community, but we have hurried to have one point more on the agenda. Is that all this is about? We know that the Air Traffic Act was adopted as an emergency solution for one-time use, to save endangered chairs before the Constitutional Court's final decision, we know that. It does not matter so much, you would say – when the law is broken, it is unconstitutional in some of our internal frameworks. What if we take on international obligations? What if the authority of that directorate is concerned with the international obligations of such an important activity as air traffic security? Does this speak of us as a serious state that has administrative, professional capacities, to join the EU or speak of us quite the opposite? Once the regulations adopted by unauthorized authorities are repealed, it will cause a number of problems. At this point, I warn you, in good time and in law-based terms, that you are withdrawing this bill of confirmation of the Agreement from the agenda and that in advance, we are deprive ourselves of the problems that we are clearly going to have, which compromise both the state and the Assembly and completely compromise Serbia's accession and Serbia itself with a very serious business. Is there any need to speak at all about the situation in air traffic and how the competent organisation for the application of this agreement has compromised Serbia's openness to the entry of air carriers into this area and how many air companies have been operating in this market, in fact, expelled from Serbia? Has anyone to decide on these complaints been in conflict of interest when, as chairman of the Board of Directors, complaints have been filed against which some companies have been denied working conditions? It will be decided by the Constitutional Court. What is terrible is that the chairs are much more important than the fate of the economy, than the rules of the EU, in which every day all state officials and those in charge of joining the EU swear. All we have left is JAT, who has long gone bankrupt, only that bankruptcy has not yet been declared, and has bankrupted due to the poor handling of party personnel. To make things even more tragic, the current prime minister privatises Telecom precisely by departing functions in public enterprises. Really, if it wasn't tragic, it would be funny. A company such as JAT cannot perform on the market under this agreement, as it is supported by the budget, and EU rules explicitly prohibit it, and that is something that is unequivocally resulting from this agreement. This law is best not to apply to domestic air traffic, because it will indeed cause unnecessary costs that we are not staffed in this state, as a state, to cover, and it also says in the very explanation of the bill. The agreement is problematic even for EU countries, which do not apply it and have not signed it all, which you have also set in line with this agreement. I think that attempts to apply some of the rules and other rules regarding the application of the EU, primarily in air traffic, cause major problems and damages to domestic aircraft owners, as well as to many other air traffic companies. I think this proposal is one of the obvious evidences of the surface of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the incompetence of those who run the air force. The basic law, which was passed in May 2009, that is, six months after these changes that we are now adopting, instead of making changes, because the reason we're doing it is because of Annex I, was then, when we adopted it, to adopt it with a change that was already in force at the time. But it's not the first time. We changed the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering twice in 2009, and now again in 2010, because we did not apply the rules to prevent money laundering brought in 2006. It seems that it takes some a long time to realize that the appearances that most threaten the foundations of a democratic society should be prevented in time. What is truly amazing is the ministry's incompetence in this domain, but also the directorate, which has over 200 employees who care about three times fewer planes, as many as Serbia has, but we are champions in the world and we have three officers and one inspector per plane. My dear gentlemen, by this we are not only a leader in the region, but an uncut leader in the world who speaks of the waste of resources and energy that we do not have enough. To conclude, we will vote against this agreement and I think it is best that you withdraw it from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48082	Ambassador Vitomir Plužarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer to these four agreements, which is an agreement concerning Argentina, Egypt and these two agreements that connect Tunisia with Serbia. As far as these agreements are concerned, I think they are merely declarative agreements which, in a series of these agreements, have the task of being numbered and thus fill out that quota that is required. Who needs it? I suppose the EU is not needed, since you do not touch EU members here, there are Argentina, Egypt and Tunisia. Someone needs it, I guess time will show which way these agreements go. As for Argentina, I have some comments from my farmers dealing with your pig and your cattle. In Argentina, and we import meat from Argentina, genetically modified soybeans are used in the feeding of pigs in that area. Whether you know it or not, check it out, make sure the public is aware of it. As far as this veterinary co-operation is concerned, we believe that this veterinary co-operation at Serbia level should be established with the peasants and that the peasants are satisfied in the right sense of that word, but how when this Law on the Veterans you have brought and on which we have given specific suggestions, today there are many gaps. We suggest that this Veterinary Act be amended and complemented with the consent of all these factors and factors that will improve the functioning of this Veterinary Act. They also said colleagues from other political options, related to this problem, and you know for a fact that the wind is very problematic, specifically on the ground, and that this biorhythm should be established on the ground that will not lead to this condition, which occurred last month. What's that state of mind? You were reportedly already ahead of the signing of the agreement, i.e. by establishing certain coordinates with the EU, that there has been no plague in Serbia in the last two or four years, and the line of agreement was to be established, and this plague occurred in the Great Radins, i.e. Beshen, Grgurevci, Šuljm and Stejanovci on 18 and 20 November. We, as the SRS, responded immediately to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, because it was an opportunity to inform the public and that you from the Ministry and the Ministry of Environmental Protection set up coordinates and that in the shortest and fastest time period of time stop it, whether it's an epidemic or it's a classical swine fever, it'll probably give your judgment again. Since I've been there from first place to today, I've been following the situation and about this problem of classical swine fever. I've come up with a lot of quiet, and I've consulted with the profession at the scene and following the whole situation, and there's a certain illogical or irregularity that you need to remove very quickly or immediately. What are these illogicalities? It was illogical that this quarantine, in that space, was not established as the pe-ess profession demands. There on the spot I established and got answers about this quarantine – there is no money. We know that the ministry, i.e. that the agriculture budget is what it is, but you in the Ministry of Agriculture need to secure the floor of apriority, i.e. under "a", some of the funds that must be put on the spot at certain times of crisis. You paid off those two or more million yesterday, how much damage there was, and that damage was mainly caused there in poor households that raised those pigs and euthanasia of those pigs, out there on the spot, not implemented the way you did, that is, how the profession and the law... You may have information, I suppose you do, that it's all done there with T 61 or with those injections that are needed or poisons, but that's not so. There were so many very painful scenes. I think you've even got those footage from that space, so you have to, Mr. Minister, at the moment that you show up on the spot and on the spot establish that contact with those people that you should have made contact with. Another comment that had very upset both the space and the public there, there were twenty individual agricultural producers and 120 specialists who had been assigned to move these people from the scene, because these people did not allow veterinary inspection and veterinary services to carry out that part of the work they needed. Let's move on, the transfer of all these corpses from that space, it was also a little strange, when one jargon of layman's commentary, they "slazed" those pigs in the yard to the container, and then in that "clause" they left blood and everything else that was, and then apparently special teams made disinfection or disinfection of that space, that profession and science don't allow. You know everything right and you know what to do. Is that what someone wanted this plague to spread in that space, and we know that Srem, Machva and that part of the rich pigs, that there are traditional pig breeders and that they do damage, and that time will show. Time will also show that just two or three days before the certificate was to be obtained that there is no swine fever in Serbia, there are tycoons, which you know well, going around that very farm in the Great Radinci, which has a capacity of 11,000 throats, and they are now filled with an capacity of eight or eight and a half thousand throats. This all there on the spot, probably through a report or through your people, who were there on the spot, you could get appropriate information, but we believe that you had to come to the scene and with these people to do the interviews in a cultural way, that the police were not coming and that there was no repression against that population that defended them, which is their capital, that is, their own property, and they know from experience that no matter what was done, was ever compensated. Thanks to these peasants and they're happy that you sent the money there yesterday. It's a positive sequence in that negative story called the plague in Srem. Analyzing the whole plague-related process, I linked it to the fact that it was once in Srem and Ticanova's rebellion in the 19th century, i.e. At the end of the 18th and early 19th centuries, same in Srem, so even then the government broke that Tican rebellion with a large amount of gendarmes. The same thing happens in the Great Workers. You've established these solutions there and every solution has ten points or ten points exactly what to do in the first degree, in the second degree. Now, if you went there today, on the spot, you'd make sure that everything you've prescribed doesn't work the way it should. The reason for all of this is that the veterinary service that has no means, no funding, no opportunities, they don't even have the means to move in that space, I mean the field vehicles and everything that it takes to get the veterinary service to do it right. I just wanted to say to the Minister, he remembers well, we had one conversation here and a comment, when that law on game and hunting was on the agenda, Mr. Minister, ask these people now in Serbia how it works? Not at all, very difficult. It's a struggle, you can't establish relationships between all these regulations and all those relationships that are needed to make it work. I'm very concerned about this plague that has appeared here in the heart of Srema for one reason, since on the Mount of Frusch...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48084	Your Honor, I'm just asking you to consider the agenda when you speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48085	Well, good. We'll set up immediately and according to the agenda. These are the agreements, and in the opening comment, I said that agreements should be established with peasants and now I elaborate on how it should be established with peasants, not, for example, with Tunisia. All right, you should go with Tunisia, but it's just a declaration. We have now established a certain number of wild boars in Fruško gora, or population dynamics, as it is said professionally, and I fear that they will now be from this area, and that is right next to Fruska Gora, as infected by the plague of wild boars declared and Fruska gora. If that happens, I don't know how we're going to stop this plague in wild pigs through this kind of organization and this kind of system. For this same positive comment, these days your veterinary services have come to the scene where the hunting took place and took samples. They've sampled everything about the plague. I think it's a positive comment, that blood is taken and that based on that analysis, there are certain parameters, i.e. knowledge that is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48086	Mr. Minister, please, you have your word. Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48087	Every time an extremely dangerous disease occurs, it is such that, along with the veterinary service, the process of eradiation goes with the police. The farmers, of course, are immediately compensated for the damage, as you yourself said. What is also never done, never disinsectation is never done, because disinsectation is the destruction of insects, and insects are not transporters of the disease, so I don't think that comment has anything to do with the discussion. As for the population of feral pigs, the process of swine fever eradication has been agreed in such a way that from the following year the vaccination of wild animals with perval vaccine, the vaccine being introduced via the mouth, so that the problem related to Fruska Gora will not appear.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48088	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Mrs Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48089	Of the 25 draft laws on the validation of various agreements, memos, conventions, protocols and decisions, which are from completely incompatible areas and competences, today I will, as long as it allows me to talk about the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine and the Proposal for a Law on Confirming Health Cooperation Agreement between the RS and the state of Kuwait. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings in application of biology and medicine was formed in Spain in 1997, and the RS signed the 2005 Convention as a member of the state union with Montenegro, but has not yet ratified it. The purpose of this Convention is to protect the dignity and identity of all human beings and to guarantee everyone, without discrimination, respect for their integrity and other rights and fundamental freedoms regarding the application of biology and medicine. The Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine is an important issue. In the light of this bill, you state that the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine is an important issue. You state that it protects the dignity and identity of all human beings and that it guarantees everyone, without discrimination, respect for their interests and other rights and fundamental freedoms regarding the application of biology and medicine, making sure that the interests and well-being of a human being take precedence over the very interests of society or science. It is this convention that requires that individual interests be above society and above politics. Article 10, which is, I think, the most significant in this Convention, is that everyone has the right to information about their health, as well as the right to respect the wishes of individuals not to be informed. I would like to remind you that Professor Vojislav Seselj has been subjected to surgery on 28 October this year due to serious health problems. On his way out of the hospital, the next day, he didn't get a release, nor did he get a medical report. However, the media found out that the Secretariat of the Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the tribunal council of the tribunal received the report, and Professor Vojislav Seselj received the report two months later. The Health and Family Committee did not find any will or way to make an announcement, in accordance with these international regulations. We believe it is the Committee's duty to draw attention to this because it is the essence of this Convention that protects the dignity and identity of every human being and guarantees everyone, without discrimination, respect for their integrity and other rights and freedoms regarding the application of biology and medicine. The MPs of the SRS and the chairman of the Committee on Family and Health, Dr Paja Momchilov, refer to those who resented the questions raised at the session of this committee for fundamental and humane reasons of human rights protection, namely this convention, which requires that we put an individual above each institution, including sciences that we view as something progressive. We hope that it should be clear to everyone what the real motive is and the driver of the SRS' mentioned initiatives on the Health Committee and on this assembly speaker. In the general statements of this Convention, it is particularly pointed out – the interest and well-being of man must be ahead of the interests of society and science, that is, Article 2. The National Council for Co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal, as the competent body for the regulation of the rights of people processed in The Hague tribunal, does not adequately inform what has been done with regard to the protection of the right to life and dignity of Dr Vojislav Seselj. The media is failing to monitor human rights violations of Serbian detainees in The Hague. There is an impression that the professional public itself is not sufficiently informed about this issue. In the case of patient rights, work on regulation and improvement of conditions of a more human, quality and responsible health system is best seen. The concept of the patient's rights reflects the kind of social, cultural and ethical evolution of human rights. Pushing the head into the sand has become the usual way of facing Serbian health with these problems. Reports on the state of health and treatment of the prison hospital with Professor Slashing, they're choked in every way. The media has a narrowed area. State shut up. The minister is silent, and the MPs are also silent about the position and opposition. Only SRS MPs, whose president is Dr Vojislav Seselj, have the opportunity to talk about it in this assembly. In most countries, doctors of reputation and authority pressured the state to react if it hadn't already done so. It would form an expert team, a non-partisan team, and then it would react diplomatically to make an insight into everything regarding Dr Vojislav Seselj's medical treatment. I repeat again, there is evidence of how much politics has trampled into an area that would have to be above and beyond politics, and therefore everywhere and in every place the SRS is trying to break through the wall of silence and keep repeating – stop killing Dr Vojislav Seselj. Now I'd like to talk a little bit about a co-operation agreement with the state of Kuwait. I would ask a question – why exactly co-operation in the area of health between the Republic of Serbia and the state of Kuwait, not co-operation with some other countries, especially those countries that have not recognised KIM? Our health care is in such a situation that co-operation, not only with Kuwait, but with other countries, is absolutely necessary. For now, we have good co-operation with Libya, where our healthcare professionals are leaving to solve the unemployment problem of all healthcare professionals and health associates in Serbia and to compensate for small salaries and thus feed their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48090	People's MP Radisa Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about proposals for laws dealing with environmental, or protocols and conventions, specifically on the Protocol on responsibility for damage caused by oil pollution, as well as damages through oil pollution. As far as these protocols and conventions are concerned, the first association will fall to the oceans and seas that transport almost 80% of the world's oil production and which is thus exposed to pollution. However, these protocols related to damage caused by oil pollution come at a bad time in Serbia, given the current economic problem that scared Bulgaria's neighbour a lot, and concerns a huge oil stain moving from Danube to Bulgaria, and threatens to endanger Bulgaria's nuclear power plant. Consider how much Serbia can cost this protocol. Politics wrote about this on December 1st, but it doesn't seem to hit anyone from the current government. We had some time ago, before that incident in Hungary, the case of the release of toxic substances in Romania in the Tis River, when invaluable damage was done to Serbia, but Serbia could not, on the basis of any convention, which was already a signator, to collect the damage, and then we can ask ourselves what this is all about. As for the problem of sea and ocean pollution by oil, it is good to know that six and a half thousand large tankers carry a billion and 200 million tons of oil and its processing, and that as many as six million tons of oil and oil processing, oil, and so on. Besides oil, there are 200 thousand tons of lead left in the seas and oceans, five thousand tons of live, huge amounts of pesticides, detergents, etc. We remember the huge ecological disaster that took place this year in the Gulf of Mexico, whose vinic was the oil company British Petroleum. The damage is measured by tens of billions of dollars, but the question is how would the company react and how much money would have spent on repairing the damage if the coast of some poor country in Africa had been threatened or perhaps Indokina. Like this, they had to get rid of the bag hard, since it was the coast of the United States. That's why "world nature keepers" serve us like this, I'd say, nice-looking conventions that, in preambles, dive some crocodile tears about how our environment was destroyed, how our sea was polluted, and we, to remind you, don't even have the sea right now, so I don't know why you put this on the agenda, and then the members of these protocols are being ordered to punish themselves with high penalties for breachers of regulations. Today, these world keepers of natural treasures, clean seas and oceans, untouchable forests, which are mostly from countries that belong to the most developed, did not remember many conventions, protocols and agreements of this ecological character, caring for the clean environment, when the unfeelingly and savagely bombed the SRJ in 1999. Furthermore, they did not remember the Convention on the Environment of 1977, the Convention on the Protection of World Natural Heritage, which was adopted in 1982, and we ourselves know that our national parks and many monuments of nature were destroyed, the Stockholm Declaration on the Environment of 1972, the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Certain Murders, the Vienna Convention on the Protection of the Ozone Cover, the Memorandum, or the Protocol on Substances that Harm the Ozones of 1987, and completed in 1997. To be clear, I've listed only those memos and protocols relating to the environment, not human rights, civilians, hospitals, cluster bombs. Then why do these conventions, these protocols, and who do they really need them for? They're probably made up for poor countries and their shipping companies, to be large monopolies, primarily from America, elegantly submerged or anchored by high penalties. Speaking of pollution in the world, it is known that 25% of total pollution on planet Earth is directly responsible for Washington, or the United States. You've all probably heard of the Kyoto Agreement, which brings together a large number of countries, exactly 187, including Russia, with the goal of reducing the emissions of harmful gases that slowly but certainly bring planet Earth into a phase when global warming is in motion. What do the United States, the feather of democracy, the example of examples in the care of planet Earth? You probably remember their many films where individuals save the Earth from some cataclysms, etc. Then you probably remember the vice president of the United States of America, Al Gore, how a man killed himself by being alarmed that, say, Antarctica penguins have a problem with melting large areas of this uninhabited continent, and he was vice president of that famous President Bill Clinton, a war criminal who refused to access Kyoto protocol. How can someone believe in the honesty of America, the world's greatest polluter who considers himself "a cradle of democracy", I don't know why, because of blacks, Indians or Mexicans, it certainly isn't because of us, who won't ratify this agreement. The question is, why? The answer is simple – for money. In 2001, George Bush withdrew the United States from the Kyoto Protocol negotiations, and the explanation of George Bush was clear and loud – it is too risky to drag the United States into such a thing. In translation, this means that many industrial giants in America whose technology is dirty, which are the backbone of the American corrupt establishment and state at all, who cannot adapt to any protocols and conventions, simply no one can do anything. Now here we are dealing with these oil pollution agreements for our vast river fleet and our vast waterways, and so much for respecting the rights of equality in the world. In the end, I would only mention this agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters. The only disaster worse than all natural disasters caused by the puppet government of Montenegro is a shameful recognition of Kosovo's independence, and this disaster cannot correct any agreements and protocols between these two governments that are on the same wavelength.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48092	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. You've got eight minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48093	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we have a agenda in front of us that always puts together a common principle search. We have the first two points that speak, and they have no contact with each other, amendments and additions to the tobacco law, and the second is to amend and supplement the law on gambling. Let's just kind of understand that. But I can't understand that, under a joint single search, you put 25 points, including the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of France on the mobility of young people, then we have again between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Uruguay on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. What I'm going to talk about are these four points listed under one point are the draft legislation confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Argentina on co-operation in the veterinary field. The next is between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and then the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia, meaning the veterinary area, and the fourth is the bill confirming the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Co-operation in the area of agriculture between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia. Again, I don't see what was so important to you to bring together so many different topics and so many different drafts of law and agreement. Mr. Micovic, let me remind you of some things. I hope you will closely monitor this exhibit of mine, as you followed on the Committee on Agriculture. What you want with co-operation with countries or from parts of African countries that once, in large Yugoslavia, were the largest importers of beef and beef can be placed under some plus. I can't understand, to turn on the TV and see there that your colleague, a graduate veterinarian living on a three-way street, and I live in the Central Banat County, so, in northern Serbia, I'm now talking about a three-way between Serbia, Macedonia and Bulgaria, about a larger area, it's about Surdulica and the wider area of Surdulica, where you don't have any public veterinary facility, it's impossible for that man, your colleague, your graduate veterinarian to come out and tell the truth. It tells the truth and mentions some long time ago, not to mention when we were under the Turks, that there were up to 300,000 sheep on that surface. Now there's about 40,000 of them. What hurts them is that they're not even with the others. It is said that when milk products are not able, because they cannot be registered, that they cannot fulfil the legal obligations under the Veterinary Act and receive these subsidies. It's just a small part, just to remind you, the anomaly of your Veterinary Authority, and you as the director of the Veterinary Authority, so I'd like to ask you to really be an exceptional and famous and to acknowledge part of Serbia, for the very quality of milk production, because those cows and sheep there feed about 270 quality grasses, medicinal... As I was saying, I'd like this veterinary agreement and that technical co-operation to come to what we were once recognized and known in the world. That with these same countries, and not only with those countries that are currently here in this joint single search, but also with other Arab countries, we are working together, which is that we are already starting to export. As I said, we were once in the old Yugoslavia among the first in the world. At that time, our slaughterhouse industries had full monthly preparations for the arrival of delegations from Iraq, Iran, Egypt, Tunisia, and had a ritual of slaughtering cattle and heroes. She couldn't have slaughtered herself with a classic kind of bow. I repeat, I am convinced that you will do everything possible not only to come to an agreement in the wind, but to have a trade exchange between these countries, that we will be the ones who offer them our lambs, our sheep, our cattle, and then, normally, and the veterinarian makes his own. There's nothing to go on if there's no profession and it's not done the way an agreement was made between those states. As far as scientific and technical co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia is concerned, there is something else I must mention. That's what I said and pointed out to the Committee on Agriculture. In addition to what will be scientific and technical co-operation, and here is listed scientific and technical cooperation in scientific research, in the protection of plants, seeds and fruit material, livestock farming, irrigation. Let's be a country that will export certain cultures that are successful in these countries, to be exporters of this fruit material, that we, since we have a good number of factories that produce plant protection products, are exporters and protections for those cultures that we export to them. Then, which is the only branch of the economy that brings surplus to this Republic of Serbia and this republican budget, and by the end of the year, even up to a billion dollars is now planned, I believe that this branch, the most pronounced and best branch of agriculture, will be valued both by you as Director of the Department of Veterinary and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. I am sorry that Mr. Sasa Dragin is not here to tell him that when we discuss the 2011 budget, we of the SRS groups will try and not allow the budget allocated to agriculture to be less than 5%. As far as I'm concerned, he's even below 3%.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48094	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I thank you for your participation in the work. It concludes a joint single search. We move on to the 33rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE TERMINATION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia IN THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS You have received a proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions submitted by the President of the National Assembly of Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 192, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as to be distributed in the following way: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Plus parliamentary group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; the DSS - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every once every five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I don't want any additional information to give. I'm opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, according to Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search for written application, neither was it oral. Since we haven't had a list of parliamentary groups and haven't been reported for word, I'm asking again if anyone who hasn't yet used the right of Article 96. Rules of Procedure, does he need to speak? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the day to vote. I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m., when we'll continue to work on the current topic, as you know. [[The session was suspended at 13.45 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48095	DAY TO ANSWER TO THE SALANIAN QUESTION 7 December 2010 (The session began at 15.05 pm. The chairman of Gordana Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of a proposal from the LDP parliamentary group, and in accordance with Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, set Tuesday, 7 December 2010, starting at 15.00 p.m. as a day for answering parliamentary questions on the topic of the topic - the resolution of the problems arising from the REFORM OF JUSTICE PROCESS. I would like to remind you that the applicants of the proposal have requested that parliamentary issues related to the current topic Addressing the problems encountered in the judicial reform process respond: Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister and Nata Mesarovic, Chairman of the High Council of the judiciary. Also, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for this part of the session to be attended by judges Jelena Borovac, Đurđina Bjelobaba, Biljana Toskovic, Mladen Nikolic and Vuko Mirčić, members of the High Council of the judiciary, Professor Predrag Dimitrijevic, lawyer Dejan Ciric and High Council secretary Majda Kršikap. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, allow me to remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to how to ask parliamentary questions, and about the topic in question. The right to ask questions shall be given to all MPs, and the first question shall be asked by a representative of the proposings, then by the Presidents, or by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, starting from the representatives of the least-numbered groups, to the largest parliamentary groups and MPs according to the applications, and until the total time for asking questions and giving answers is up. The MPs shall submit to the President of the National Assembly the application for questions, in writing, until the start of the reply, and verbally during the duration of the answer. National MP, based on Article 213. Rules of Procedure, he can ask three questions at most. Answering parliamentary questions, therefore, the time available, in this case to the representatives of the Government and the judiciary, who are invited to attend the sittings and to give answers, therefore, have a total time of 180 minutes at their disposal and this time shall be particularly measured after each of the representatives who have been called to answer questions at the sitting and shall be carried out regardless of the number of MPs present in the hall, and on the basis of Article 212. Rules of Procedure. The time within which the MP orally asks the question is the longest of three minutes, and the answer is five minutes. After answering, the MP who has asked the question can ask two more questions for a total duration of two minutes, and the answer to the questions can last for a total of up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to ask questions, and according to the order of applications. Therefore, the MP asks a question of three minutes, a representative of the Government, i.e. the appointed and authorised representative, answers for the longest five minutes, then the MP for two minutes and a representative for the Government for five minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall be applied accordingly during the duration of the question and answer, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and by virtue of Article 216. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48097	I give my word to Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48098	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mrs Malovic and Mrs Mesarovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very important topic for us today, and I think it is of great importance that the relationship with the discussion and the debate we are launching is different from the one that only followed the reform of the judiciary carried out not full year ago. At the time, we did not like the atmosphere of silence that marked Parliament's relationship to the jobs that must be done in the country, and precisely because of such an undecided relationship with such an important business, we are facing a number of problems today. I have a question for Ministerial Justice. First, Mrs Malovic, we think it is extremely important to protect those judges this parliament has chosen and voted for, expecting these people to bring into the Serbian judiciary what the Serbian judiciary needed to meet the needs of our society. Politics has destroyed Serbia's judiciary. Politics must take everything that has brought with it bad from that judiciary to take. In the previous year, we were unable to see determination in the government's procedures, which was necessary for the start of judicial reform to be effectively completed. At this point, we are interested in whether the government is ready to protect the elected judges and to remove all the reasons that doubt the reforms and motives of the judiciary and make them more or less justified. We believe that it is necessary to act in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, to correct legislation to the extent that it is necessary to remove key arguments from the hands of those who criticise the reform, contesting it as politically motivated. On the other hand, we think that the uncertainty that burdens our judiciary and restores the confidence that justice needs to work normally. This uncertainty stems from the dilemma and skepticism of every judge we have chosen here in parliament, in a situation where they look behind their backs, and this parliament does not see or see the government that has begun the reform of the judiciary. So, a few specific questions – are you ready to protect the elected judges? The second question is – are you ready to remove all the problems and criticisms of the judiciary that seem to be more or less justified at the moment, and here above all we are referring to the suggestions of the European Commission which criticises judicial reform and points to failures, in a completely different way than those of criticism and failures shown by the local public who criticises judicial reform? Afterwards, we have questions for the President of the Court, Mrs Mesarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48099	Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48100	I want to thank you for organising this thematic session of the Assembly. I think this is the right place to discuss judicial reform. The reform of the judiciary is not just a matter or a step to be taken by one government, now the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by a special authority, such as the High Council of the judiciary or the State Major Prosecutors, but is a broad and broader issue that includes a particular social consensus. During this debate, I deeply believe that I will be able to explain to you all those steps that we have taken on the reform of the judiciary, why the reform of the judiciary was necessary because sometimes it is necessary and, unfortunately, sometimes the memory serves us briefly, so we cannot reach into the past and all the reasons that drove us to undertake judicial reform and I am deeply convinced that we will get the necessary understanding for it. As far as your first question is concerned, is the government ready to protect the elected judges, of course it is and if the Justice Department is responsible for taking all the necessary steps to ensure the smooth work of the courts, and therefore to protect the holders of judicial functions, judges and prosecutors, of course I will always vote for it, always raise my voice, take all those steps that are necessary in this regard. As far as solving problems are concerned, judicial reform, as you yourself are aware, is a complex and profound process. For ten years, there was talk of judicial reform. Certain steps have been taken that most often led to us going back rather than moving forward. Of course, in that process, we often stumbled and encountered dams. As for the Ministry of Justice or the authorities now in charge of taking steps to reform the judiciary, of course we are ready to remove all problems and do so daily in talks with the European Commission and other international organisations. We will not do this as some did, so they went to Europe, so with their seal they gave blank paper to Europe to write what needs to be done, but we have a continuous dialogue with Europe within our capabilities and our competences and what is related to our mentality and legal system, of course we will take steps. I will also remind you of Commissioner Phil's statement, which said this represents a new phase in relations, and I consider it a new phase in relations and we will return to the very beginning and to what we have done, analyzed our steps and see what we can do accordingly. This is what we have done this year, and I will remind you that we have had two meetings twice, we have had a first group drawn up by the European Commission, on the one hand, and on the other hand by the representatives of the High Council of Justice, we have had two very good meetings in Belgrade, and then we have some common topics, where the Prime Minister was present, and also the President of the State himself, and we will have opportunities in the coming days to see before this Parliament and the expression of those steps, what we have agreed with the European Commission, and as regards the amendments to the law, and we will be able to discuss it closer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48101	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48102	I have a question for Mrs. Mesarovic, president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, with an opening comment on why this session is important. As a rule, this society has always sacrificed those who are expected to do business on behalf of society, we have felt great and personal responsibility towards judges, prosecutors, police officers who, during the state of emergency, defended the right of the country's citizens to a normal life and allowed the arrest of the people who killed the Prime Minister. A year after that, these people were replaced, retired and arrested. Now, seven years from then, we know they were victims of political cleanup. That's when it was quieted down to the most. That's why we want to talk about everything today. Mrs. Mesarovic, what is the obstacle to the normal work of the High Judicial Council? The Constitutional Court's finding, i.e. a decision, a June 2009 solution that responds to a complaint from the Association of Judges of Serbia, by rejecting a request for an assessment of the constitutionality and a request for an annulment of the law under which you act, is rejected by the finding, that it is not about re-election, but about the choice of judges. It is very important for us, because from the right of the judge who calls for re-election, the re-election procedure rather than the election, it is also the right of the judge to seek an explanation for the decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. On the one hand, we believe that we need to protect all judges, and on the other hand we are very interested in the future of the talks and the statements of those arguments that were crucial to those judges who insist on that and possibly the public's insight into this process and what had a crucial impact on the decisions of the High Council of Justice. This is where the ghost from the bottle was released. It was an impression that actually the criteria under which the High Council of the Judiciary was acting were so mysterious that it was not actually there, and that you were carrying out some political dictatorships. The first proceedings before the Constitutional Court showed how unfounded was the criticism of the judge who challenged the decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which denied him the judicial office, i.e. to which he has not been selected. We want that question removed and we're looking for a model. Could this be an oral explanation, a discussion of members of the High Council of the Judiciary with those judges seeking an explanation, but we do not like the idea of spending the next three years on writing a reply to the requests and complaints of those who have not been elected, with the possibility of extending this process through a trial before a new court, and as a rule, it is a court in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48103	Mrs. Mesarovic, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48104	There are more questions in your question, and now I don't know if those five minutes will be enough, I'm allowing the possibility of someone after that asking for an additional explanation. I must tell you that the High Council of the judiciary is a body established by the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, as such, provides for and represents an independent and independent body whose jurisdiction or greatest responsibility is in the process of electing and dismissing judges. The part of the jurisdiction that has been given to the High Judicial Council to lead the third branch of the government is where the desire arose for many in Serbia to decide instead of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, who will be the judge and who will not. I must tell you that the High Council of the judiciary, not as an authority, is not personally the creator of the 2006 Constitution's resolution, nor the Constitutional Law, nor the Law on Judges, and they are the essence and the root cause of the disputes. The High Council of the Judiciary is the enforcer of these constitutional laws, the Law on Judges and the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, meaning, dura lex, sed lex, and so the High Council adhered. The High Judicial Council after the constitution did not begin or bring anything to do with the election of judges, until it awaited the Constitutional Court's decision of 9 July 2009, and, after the initiative of the Judges' Management Board, which disputed several decisions. It is not disputed, and that decision was respected by the High Council of the Judiciary. I must say that the High Council of the Judiciary as the Supreme Authority of the Judicial Authority respected the Constitution, constitutional law, the Law on Judges, the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, and respected all decisions of the Constitutional Court, agreed or disagreed with them. So the High Council of the judiciary has shown that it respects all the institutions in this system. We need to get back to the beginning, gentlemen, and talk about something else, and that's the fact that these election matters can't be taken away from the High Council of the Judiciary because it's a guarantee of independence and independence. However, it should be borne in mind that prior to the adoption of the 2006 Constitution and before the adoption of the Constitutional Law, the Venice Commission paid attention to the proposal for a constitutional law, the way judges in the Republic of Serbia were elected or elected in general. This results in them being considered, and these are the bodies whose opinion is respected by the European Union, that the founding judges who have found themselves in office, both moral, professional and trained, unless their dignity, expertise and training are shown. However, what we are different, which is the Law on Judges in Serbia, the Constitution and the Constitutional Law and this decision of 2009 said that the general choice of judges is constitutional and legal, that the laws in that part are fully with European standards, that they are respected and there is no reason not to implement the general choice of judges. Only then after receiving that decision does the High Judicial Council begin to work. What's going on? The Venice Commission apparently had some other opinion, which is just now visible, I didn't know about it, because at the time of the law, I wasn't president of the Supreme Court of Serbia or the Supreme Cassation Court. But that doesn't mean that I'm removing responsibility from myself, but I'm explaining the situation, I wasn't involved in lawmaking, I wasn't involved in the choice of judges, because at the time I was medically prevented from being members of the High Council of the Judiciary, but I agreed to be at the head of this body and to conduct a general choice. For what? Because I believe that Serbia's ineffectiveness and unloving judges were the reason for entering the judicial reform. What came out of it? It came about that in the Law on Judges elected in the general election and those who remained unelected, we did not make a decision on the non-election of judges, this is a declarative summary decision, which lists all judges who were not elected, in order to exercise their right to pay and social security. That was it. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has subsequently decided that judges have the right to individual reasons for not being elected, by binding only on a body which takes positions, and not on the Supreme Council of the judiciary. This is also the case for the discharge procedure, not for the general selection procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48105	The People's MP Lasslo Varga has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48106	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, for obtaining a positive opinion from the European Commission, I think that in addition to the issue of co-operation with the UN tribunal, it is of the utmost importance that the shortcomings made during judicial reform be eliminated. Unfortunately, it turns out that we were right when we discussed this reform two years ago that obstacles are being created in the way of European integration. Partly, of course, not entirely. It was practically the first major dispute between DS and SVM during the government's mandate. What is less clear to everyone about what has to be done with the question of the election of judges, the Commissioner for Enlargement said unequivocally at the European Integration Council ten days ago that a full review of the process of election of judges is expected. Those were his words, and I think we're moving in that direction. However, there is another question that was few words, and this question concerns the network of courts. In fact, when we were against some elements of judicial reform, we were against it primarily because of the new network of courts and because of the rationalization of the judicial system. Then we spoke and assured you that this reform would negatively affect the efficiency of the courts, that the costs would rise. Of course, we also talked about the negative effects on the exercise of minority rights in the field of official use of language and letter. By reading the European Commission's progress report, this latest report, we can come to the conclusion that we were practically absolutely right. In this report, it says that reforms have negatively affected the overall efficiency of the judicial system, that significant means of travel are needed for judges and that all this creates concerns about security. So, reviewing the election of judges is a condition, it's undeniable. Reorganisation of the judicial network is not a condition for obtaining candidate status, and that is not disputed either. However, it is obvious that this reorganisation of the judicial network was not in line with European standards and that the network does not comply with European standards, as these things are found in the European Commission's report. Of course, there are practically two options – either to abolish judicial units, or to restore court status to a certain number of judicial units. My question concerns this part of the reform – is there any thinking in that direction, that is, when it will happen? I mean, is that gonna happen, I don't think it's controversial, but the question is, when is that gonna happen? Is it now during this review of the judge's re-election process or will this happen after the EU negotiations begin? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48107	Madam Minister, please. The word is Mrs. Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48108	I thank you for asking. I agree with one part of your findings, but I disagree with one part. Firstly, I want to point out at the very beginning that the judiciary is not an obstacle to further European integration. There are certain shortcomings for which we will all work together to remove them, of course, in agreement and co-operation with the European Commission and other relevant international organisations. I want to point out to you the fact that if we talk about the European Commission's annual report, not only in relation to Serbia, but also to other countries in the region, I know that you read and analyze it very carefully, but because of the public of Serbia and other MPs, I will point out the parts of the reports concerning, for example, Croatia, regarding Montenegro, Macedonia, where these reports find it necessary to reform the judiciary in those countries. It is precisely in the talks that European Commission officials say that if the reform of the judiciary is implemented to the end, according to the recommendations we receive in Europe, if we achieve some agreement and stick to it, it will be an example for other countries to see. At the very least, I have it written in Commissioner Phil's letters, so if it's necessary, I can quote it. The dispute that has arisen, and now it's been two years since the adoption of judicial laws, so we've been discussing in this respected home in another building for almost a month about all judicial laws. We argued at that time about the network of courts, and it was you who pointed out that certain courts should remain, but the truth is, I will tell you, what you touched in your presentation, that the European Commission has just pointed out to us, that we may consider whether it is the overall existence of judicial units and whether it should be removed from our organisational legal system at all. I don't agree with that. Our promise to propose judicial laws was such that every citizen of Serbia, if we talk about litigation, civil proceedings, will approach that building in the place where he did so and will remain so. Of course, it is a living organism and, depending on the needs and conditions of society, it needs to be revised. I don't see any reason at this point, but I'm not gonna say we're closed on that. Of course we will continue to talk and depending on the needs of our citizens to try to make adequate decisions. It has also been mentioned in the public that the network of courts is inconsistencies. I don't think so. There is a judicial budget to be determined each year. Under the Budget Law, you have all these figures and proposals ahead of you and it can be seen that the judiciary budget has not been increased compared to previous years. Maybe it's something smaller, which as a state may not be right for us at the moment when we started the biggest reform in the history of the judiciary, but certainly the costs didn't increase. It was highlighted in the European Commission's report, and you mentioned that, about the functioning of the judicial units and the safety of the case. I don't think that part looks good enough. In my talks with the European Commission's ambassador to Belgrade, as well as with officials from Brussels, I invited them to visit a judicial unit and see how a judicial unit works at all, to see that there is no question of the safety of the case at all, because the cases themselves are in judicial units. They stand for a few reasons. One of the important reasons is the possibility of insight into the case. If he were to stand in the seat of the Court of Justice, then lawyers would have to go to the place where the seat is located, he is already in the judicial units. Some of them asked me to write it, but I believe the next report will establish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48109	Mr. Laszlo Varga again. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48110	I thank you for your answer. I'm partially satisfied with the answer. In response, you too, Madam Minister, see the chance of this network of courts changing. So there is a chance that at the end of the judicial reform, there is not only 34 basic courts left. I don't agree with that part of your exposure that maybe this isn't the best time to do it. In fact, I think it would be much better to do all that, to remove all the shortcomings at this stage, so we wouldn't have to go back to that question during the negotiations when the negotiations are open. As far as efficiency is concerned, you probably have some data, so do we. According to our information, from the moment the lawsuit was filed, for example, the City Court in Subotica, two months until the first hearing was scheduled, it now takes six months. The direct costs may not have increased, but they are indirect and the whole system has been slowed down. On the other hand, I want to point out one more thing. When there was a debate, you were talking about the concept, in the sense that there would be a full right to a natural judge. It is not respected at the end of this reform. With this way that resident judges have been appointed in judicial units, practically, that right does not exist. Namely, if you have a working-law dispute in Backo Topoli, you only have one judge and if he's not busy, then all cases will be tried. I don't think you respect that right. It was, at least as you convinced us, the most important feature of the new system and the new concept. What's missing a little bit at this point, that's a little bit more honesty, to admit what we didn't do right, to get things right as soon as possible. In fact, it will be even harder when this process of European integration is progressing. If we change the network of courts as soon as the presidents of the courts are elected, you'll have to admit, it'll be harder than we do now until it's done. All in all, in the end, I would only appeal to you once again, not to ask the question, I would only urge you to reconsider and remove the shortcomings in this part of the judicial reform in the next seven, eight months, not when negotiations with the EU begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48111	Mrs. Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48112	I thank you for your construction. Like I said, we're not closed to any questions, not on that matter. As far as honesty is concerned, I have no problem admitting, whenever it is necessary to revise our position or resolve certain issues. In me in this regard you always have an interviewer. It is one of the objectives of the reform was, if we dismember them, that there is a right to a natural judge and it is not only resolved by judicial laws, but is resolved by certain acts concerning the functioning of the organisation itself within the court. There's the Rules of Procedure one of the most important documents. We brought it in the moment when the courts had yet to function and now we see certain things to be completed or changed. The Rules of Procedure shall be brought by the Minister of Justice, but with the agreement of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. We talked to the president on a few occasions about these needs, and we won't have a problem changing. We have very important information concerning the functioning of both courts and judicial units. Of course, they can get double. They can be obtained within the court itself, but there are far more important impulses that come outside the court, than the citizens themselves and the lawyers who approach these courts. I find it very interesting what you said about Buck Topola. Of course we'll check it out. As far as I know, this judicial unit is not largely located from the seat of the court, about 40 km away. Our rapper was about 50 kilometers away. Whether that judicial unit is going to operate at the level of the days or at the level of the judicial department, given that it is a Vojvodina, where there is a very good network of roads, I see no reason why this judicial unit would not function at the level of the court days and why judges from the court's headquarters would not go to that unit to judge. We've been controlling this whole year how the Rules of Procedure was applied. There is a division of jurisdiction between the Justice Ministry and the Supreme Cassation Court. Of course, we have coordinated our checks and reports, and in this particular case we will check and make sure that the work of that judicial unit is in line with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48113	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48114	Madam President, I would like to welcome our distinguished guests and minister of justice, of course. I want to ask you a few questions. First, are you convinced that a reform of the judiciary was done as agreed with the EU? You said it was okay and that it was consistent. I heard in person at the meeting, there were many heads of parliament, that it was wrong and that it had to be done again, that it was a disgrace to the Serbian judiciary. That's how I understood. Secondly, who influenced this reform of the judiciary to be primarily party and reform made by the ruling coalition? What is Dusan Petrovic's role? Have you heard of the famous 26-judge list, as the judges call it "Cumet's List", which Mr. Petrovic received from Mr. Chumett? Is it normal for a protected witness, accompanied by police armed to the teeth, to go to tender committees, to negotiate business with the state, to perform work, to attend meetings where the highest state officials are, etc? Very important, did these chosen obedient judges influence the cover-up or to stave off many affairs, such as "Luka Belgrade", such as "Sartid", such as "Moses", such as military procurement, remember Milet Dragic, where some modern ministers announced it as an affair of the century, "Satellite" and the rest? What's going on in these affairs? Of course, nothing. Very important, why is the judge now appointed as a obedient judge, who has damaged the Government of the Republic of Serbia by 34m euros in the dispute with the Vojvodina Roads? What are the three law offices most powerful in Belgrade, held by top officials of the ruling coalition, with 120 lawyers?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48115	Thank you, it was a clear question. Who wants to answer? Mrs. Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48116	I wish I had a clear question, but I'll try to answer you, and you have the right to a question, so maybe we'll get it straight. The reform of the judiciary was necessary and it is not only our opinion, but also the opinion of the international community. I will also remind you of reports previously made by the European Commission on progress, where it has just been found necessary for judicial reform to be carried out. At the very least, I remember some of your statements, which were on the issue of judicial reform. Everything we've done, we've tried in the best possible way to do it. Of course this is a complex process, a long-term process, and we can't expect that after a few months we have great results of reform. We already have the results of the judicial reform, and I think the entire public of Serbia could see these results this year. I'll just give you a few examples. We have convictions for persons who have been apostrophe in public as bearers of criminal activity, whose actions have been conducted in Serbia for even tens of years. We have a decision on the first monopoly. I can say that this is a historic decision, which unfortunately earlier the Serbian judiciary could not find. That's exactly what he's saying in favor of no unprotected. Anyone who has committed criminal activities in Serbia, for which there is valid evidence, will be brought into action, and I am deeply convinced that they will see both daylight and light through court procedure. I'm not familiar with the example of your judge who has been elected, who has made certain decisions regarding the Voivodine Road Centers, I didn't quite understand that question of yours, but as I said, I think you'll be able to clarify it through your questioning. As far as your insinuation is concerned, I must say for the determination of party lists and the roles of certain people, this particular reform of the judiciary has contributed to political influence being minimized, or shut down. All those laws we passed were just about creating assumptions that there was no politicisation within the Serbian judiciary. I remember your discussion when we adopted the Law on the Judicial Academy here, when you thought judges should go through certain schools again, so here it now turns out that what the Law on the Judiciary Academy actually means. It means that no one in Serbia will be able to be set up in the future unless they are trained by the judicial academy. Which means he has to finish law school, he has proper training within the court, or any other authority, apply to the judicial academy, and only after he has passed the proper training and passed the test can he be deployed to some of the courts in Serbia. It is just saying that there can be no assumption in the future of any politicisation of the judiciary in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48117	I'll explain. Here in parliament, I raised the issue of Nuba Investa and Minister Dulic. What happened? Instead of the competent authorities, the judicial authorities, taking certain actions in this regard, I received a criminal report from Dulic with a message – If he does not shut up about "Nuba Invest", I will teach him reason. Madam Minister, do you remember when I told you about a wicked judge from Novi Sad, who sentenced me to ten million, that I never received a subpoena, nor did I know that I was being tried, nor did I appear in court, nor was that court in charge of this dispute? How did that judge get re-elected? Did someone call him to ask him? I've never met this lady in my life, and I'd like to see her, ask her if she's normal. The second question, as regards "The Road of Vojvodina", was slow, the passengers sued Vojvodina and took one of these offices I speak of, burning and burning Serbia and controlling all judges and the court sued the government of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 34m euros. The dispute is resolved. Attorney-General Sead Spahovic has not informed anyone, nor the rest ministers, nor the government, nor the finance minister, nor anyone. The dispute was quickly resolved and the government was blocked, or the budget for 34m euros and charged, where the tolls tell me – half of us, half of my lawyers. How could someone make an express of 17 million euros? All these people are now appointed again. Is it possible that the defence attorney and deputy, who gave up the role of "Yugobank" at the Zagreb Bank in the privatisation process, wrote a letter that Serbia is not interested in two billion euros in capital, are not punished, and no one has initiated the procedure, but have made progress? I raised that question in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48118	Time. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48119	Mr. Ilic, I can promise you that neither you nor any other Serbian citizen can be initiated unless there is evidence for this. This initiation depends, not on any desire or individuality, but on whether there is evidence or not. As far as this second piece of work is concerned, that certain judges may be appointed again, although there are doubts about their expertise, abilities, or dignity. We said we didn't have a problem reviewing any decisions made by the High Council of the Judiciary or the State Council. No one has been amnesty for their previous work. We're absolutely certain of the decisions we've made. We believe that they are properly done through one procedure that has been laid down by the law, and if we talk about the High Council of the Judiciary and if we talk about the State Council of Prosecutors. This time I call on all the professional public, I call on the citizens of Serbia, and I call on you, that if you have any information that may concern the expertise, dignity or training of the judges and prosecutors now in Serbia's judicial system, that you submit these information to the High Council of the Judiciary or the State Council of Prosecutors, and we will be very happy to check it through the procedure laid down by law. I can promise you that as a member of the High Court Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48120	Since it hasn't been used for five minutes, go ahead. There are three minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48121	I'll be brief. As far as these questions are concerned, I don't mind and I really think that the equality of citizens must be guaranteed against the law, that no one should be protected. The High Judicial Council has passed a rule on disciplinary responsibility in the disciplinary procedure. As far as these three criteria are concerned, it doesn't just have to be done through a disciplinary procedure. If you who have passed the law here in the Assembly amend the Law on Judges, and you say that we will question the chosen and the unselected, and you have passed that law, then we will have everything to do again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48122	MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48123	Mrs. Malovic, a question for you. Since the reform of the judiciary and it's a general consensus here, we're speculating about the way it's been implemented, whether it's good enough, whether something can be corrected, but it's not disputed that it was necessary, that it was the need of society. We are interested – how much, although we do not enter into individual criteria that were crucial for the choice of judges, but how many of the judges who were not elected, we know that it is the number of some eight hundred judges, how much of these judges' status was acquired in the period in which our judiciary rested on the party quotas, which were the subject of a public coalition agreement, is that agreement 66/33. These are some data that are very important, which are lagging behind, which may not have had a crucial impact on the decisions of the High Council of the judiciary, because it is possible that, under these criteria, good judges were chosen, but we are interested in how much of those judges who were not elected in the period during which some other criteria were established, absolutely political, who were among other things part of one coalition agreement? That's one question. The second question, very important, did you find out how it is possible to send one version of the law to the Venice Commission, so society knows what it is, since we are still entering some quasi-dating debates, the Venice Commission is a committee of the Council of Europe for Democracy through the right. It was formed to support society in transition. We sent the law, as well as the Constitution, in due course, to the Venice Commission. The law sent to the Venice Commission is not the law that has been sent here to us in the Assembly, and this is being warned by both the Commission and the European Commission. What is missing does not match the criticisms known in the local public, which challenge judicial reform. It's about two members of the law. One is the general session of the running court and another is the obligation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary to propose to parliament a judge with the highest number of votes. How is it possible that such a failure occurred? Who is responsible for this and this important question, the question of these criteria? There's 30 seconds left. I'm leaving for a second chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48124	Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48125	I don't know if I'm going to be able to answer you all in this time that's foreseen for my answer, but I will certainly remind you that through your question it is actually one of the purposes of judicial reform, which is to exclude any possibility of politicization. In 2001, when I came to the Ministry, I then found a law that provided for the minister of justice to propose judges. In the same law, on the basis of the proposal, 13 judges were released in 1999. We all remember that and remember what kind of controversy this has caused in the professional public. Most of them, fortunately, are back again. Some of them returned to Serbia's judicial system and continued their duties there. At that time, there was an official quota, which was of course not formulated through legal acts, but certainly held firm by political actors at the time to propose judges by the quotas made by the parties of the then government, where each party belonged to 30% of the proposals that were being determined. Unfortunately, and I will say it openly and admit it, and in 2001, when we proposed some judges under that law, we came to the Committee on Justice and certain parties representing the Committee on Justice continued to work in this manner, so there was no official proposal compared to some judges, but they proposed themselves to the Justice Committee. I hope they can remember that. There were different groups and different criteria on which we were guided when we decided whether someone would be in Serbia's judicial system or not. The basic criteria that guided us, which was published in the Official Messenger, which was repeatedly discussed here, are expertise, dignity or training. Since this was more of an interest to the public on the general side, and very few were interested in what it looked like in reality, and could be seen through a procedure recently led before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, where specific cases were presented to the public and where the representative of the High Council of the judiciary presented the argument we used, and the judge who was not elected could make his arguments about it. You yourself pointed out that the public of Serbia was not so interested, but I have made some examples of an individual decision written by the Supreme Council of the judiciary on unselected judges. I'm not going to name names, but for one of them I'm going to say, he was the judge of the Belgrade District Court, and I hope that in the process of reviewing the public will be present when we call on that judge, I'll tell you that he's been convicted by two grounds. He was a district court judge and he had two strong decisions. In the first case, the verdict was found guilty of the defamation of 80,000 dinars. The verdict against the judge was amended by the Belgrade District Court verdict, where the defendant's appeal was respected. Judges and his defender, and against him, were denied the charge of that crime. However, the second-degree decision states that the first-degree court has fully and correctly established a factual situation, but that the charge is dismissed because of the occurrence of absolute obsolescence of criminal prosecution. On the other hand, the same judge has been convicted of criminalising an authorised official in the performance of security or public order and has been sentenced to work in the public interest for 360 hours, with a period of 60 hours over one month and scheduled to be completed within six months. Of course, there are also negative results of work, which speaks of his training, but I don't think I need to bother you right now in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48126	Time. Mr. Jovanovic, you have two minutes. Please, since there have been some questions, Mr Jovanovic has been given the proposal of the current topic first word, then speaks on behalf of his parliamentary group and will be the first on the list when we go to the list. It is the right of a parliamentary group to define itself that way. I can't deny that right. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48127	Madam President, the respected presidency, Mrs Malovic and Mrs Mesarovic, Mr. Prime Minister, we are weak in interpretation and our own rights, let alone the rights that should be the basis for judicial reform. If I understand you correctly, Mrs Mesarovic, you said that the Supreme Council of the judiciary is acting in accordance with the laws adopted by parliament and in accordance with the Constitution and decisions of the Constitutional Court. This is important to us since we're in politics. Whether there is a possibility, this is a struggle for the public, without the public reform of the judiciary cannot be successful. We are aware of the fact that it is such a unique front that opposes reform, but we are sick of arguments that would be effective in fighting for reform. We don't need any new agony to realize how chaotic our judiciary is. Yesterday we watched a show in which one of the deputy district attorneys declared that the minister of justice had ordered him to break the law and did not act in accordance with the law that obliges us to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. How much is this country's future going to cost as if it didn't matter. They didn't answer for that. They've spared every kind of responsibility. We are interested in whether it is possible for the High Judicial Council, if the legislation is corrected, to offer the kind of reasoning needed to meet the public's need which at this time doubts the motives with which the reform was implemented, because the public is not competent to assess the validity and application of the criteria you mentioned. We would like to come to the opportunity to offer any judge who has not been elected to talk to members of the High Council of the judiciary, with a committee that can form to remove dilemmas, taking responsibility for this kind of initiative by opening up opportunities for the public to be familiar with the arguments based on which the decision of the High Council of Justice was based.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48128	Mrs. Mesarovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48129	I tried to explain earlier that a general choice of judges was made in Serbia and was not followed by a procedure of resolution and re-election. I reached the point where I explained that the Venice Commission, as a body that recognises the EU, made an observation that all judges in Serbia should be formally renamed, and only those in whom suspicions arise should be carried out in the process of resolution. The high council of the judiciary did not carry out the discharge procedure, nor did the reelection procedure. We had no other act but the laws and decisions we made. The other thing, you mentioned earlier, you didn't get an answer to the question, is it true that one version of the law was sent to the European Commission, and that the High Council of the judiciary was working on the second version of the law? This refers to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and that is exactly how much I heard at the meeting with the European Commissioner. So, the least he can do is take responsibility for that High Judiciary Council, and it's like you sent the Adidas ball somewhere, so he's playing a game with that ball, and you left a second, much weaker ball with the High Judiciary Council. Therefore, we acted by law, made a general choice. As far as transparency is concerned, I have to answer that question, that's a special question, transparency was represented in the High Council of the Judiciary. There was a possibility of having conversations, but the obligation of the High Council is only when he is conducting a discharge procedure to place a burden on someone. The High Council of the judiciary has made 600 solutions and 500 responses to constitutional appeals, which they have the right to, rather than complaints to, the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48130	You've got another minute. Mrs. Malovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48131	Finally, to clarify the issue of the adoption of laws and opinions by the Venice Commission. This bill, in fact, the working version of the law was sent back in 2008 and it really meant that candidate status for the High Council of the judiciary could be obtained if such a candidate were supported by his signature of 10 judges. In order to properly inform the public of Serbia, I will now read the Venice Commission's opinion on this. It says this - elections allowing a person to be a candidate on the basis of only 10 proposals could potentially lead to a very small number of candidates showing up, so it would be possible for someone to get the largest number of votes, and that the number of votes essentially does not reflect a particularly high percentage of the total number of votes. This defined us as being proposed only on the basis of a college session in the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary. We respect the current opinion of the European Commission. Probably that number will be bigger, not 10 judges, but a larger number. Like I said, we're having conversations. We did not give blank paper to the European Commission to write our terms, but we are discussing it and these laws will be in front of parliament for the next few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48132	Time. Mr. Aligrudic, you didn't sign up? Okay. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48133	Today we learned that Mrs. Nata Mesarovic is not at all guilty of this judicial reform, so she is not even responsible, that this is Mrs. Snezana Malovic, whom we have listened carefully. I think a polygraph would go crazy today if one of the government's representatives were hooked up to it. I'm interested in why are the representatives of the Association of Judges of Serbia and the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors not invited, but just a satisfied foreign judiciary? I'm interested to know that you have reached an unconstitutional conclusion that all unselected judges under certain conditions, one condition is that they have complained to the Constitutional Court, have the right to extended income until they are resolved before the Constitutional Court of their appeal, although you know very well that each of the state's employees is entitled only to six months after the end of office, or six more if they are entitled to retirement at that time? I wonder why you have burdened the citizens of Serbia with subsequent cost of paying salaries to judges and prosecutors who have not been elected, if you have done everything in accordance with the law and regulations? Whoever does the job in accordance with the law, and someone loses his job for it, gives him notice, and the court is given the right to do so, so he can make some compensation, and you pay immediately in advance, and the compensation is aware that you've made a big mess? I wonder why you hid Mr. Stefan Phil and Vivian Reding's letter, the Vice-President of the European Commission for Justice, Fundamental Rights and Citizenship, since 16 March 2010. Did they say that the European Commission and the Venice Commission followed the process, made recommendations, voiced serious concerns about the legal framework for judicial reform, and particularly about the election process. Despite these clearly expressed concerns, no important recommendations have been taken regarding the procedure before the election of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, the need for transparency and the clear and measurable criteria for selecting judges and prosecutors? Is it because they resented you that the members of the VSS were appointed in accordance with the transitional provisions, and mostly by the previous High Council of Justice? Is it because the timeframe of the trial of about three months and the capacity of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors was limited, that they had to consider about 5,000 applications for 2,483 positions of the High Council of the Judiciary, and about 1,400 applications for 543 prosecutorial positions? The correct evaluation was practically impossible within that time limit. That's what the ones you're saying have convinced you are in need of judicial reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48134	Time. You made yourself clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48135	I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48136	You've got two minutes later. Can I help you? Who wants to? Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48137	I thank you for asking, but I must say that the question reminded me of something that my esteemed Professor Oliver Antic, who is a member of your party, taught us while we were in the studies, when you don't know how to interpret, then resort to a targeted interpretation. So you resorted to the fact that the judicial reform was unsuccessful and that we made a big mess and you adjusted your question accordingly. We didn't hide a letter from Commissioners Phil and Reding, sent to the authorities. The letter was found in public by the Ministry of Justice, according to a request for free access to information of public importance, giving the letter to interested parties. Thus, the letter was not magically found in public, as certain media tried to present it, but based on the Justice Ministry's move. This time I repeat once again that the letter was found in public by the Ministry of Justice. If we wanted to hide it, we wouldn't have given it. Why hasn't that been done before? It was precisely because it was indicated by the European Commission that the talks were ongoing, that we were in progress and that we should wait for the outcome of these talks, and then let the public know about it. However, for the sake of proper information to the public, I will also say to this occasion, although both letters have been delivered, both of them, that there is a letter sent on July 27, 2010. So as you have done, and I will quote that letter, where in one section it is said like this – let me stress that the European Commission's goal is not to compromise the results of the judicial reform process so far. On the contrary, the Commission wanted to confirm in its future reports the advances of important reform if it followed the guidelines set out so far. Moreover, it would represent an example that should be followed in the region. Therefore, we will go towards this and the future moves we make will be aimed at removing all the shortcomings perceived in the judicial reform process, but to ensure that Serbian citizens are given the right to a fair trial and the right to a fair trial. As for your question regarding the government's conclusion, which has been brought about by unselected judges, it is quite true that the laws have established that they have the right to pay the salary of six months. However, the talks we had within the working group with the European Commission, I said just before who were representatives of the task force, one of the conclusions was that they needed to be paid compensation while the Constitutional Court proceedings were under way. In laws which, I hope, as I said, will soon be found before you, we will try to write them so that it can be seen that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors do not run away from responsibility. On the contrary, they take responsibility for themselves because within the year, the Constitutional Court has failed to resolve these cases and, of course, the general public of Serbia and Serbian citizens are burdened with this, and as I said, to take responsibility and bring the issue to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48138	Another minute and a half. Here you go, Mrs. Mesarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48139	I speak as representative and president of the High Council of Justice. Gentlemen, any amendments to the law you make in this House will be carried out by the High Council of the Judiciary, so they will take responsibility for those who have claimed for a year that the constitutional appeal, the appeal to the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court is a second-degree body, although it cannot be, for no judge can the Constitutional Court make a decision and amend it and say it – you, sir or the judge, are returning to work. The procedure is such that the Constitutional Court can only determine the injury and return it to the High Council of the Judiciary. The fact that someone wanted to decide instead of the High Council of the Judiciary and that Nata Mesarovic was a personification of the High Council of the Judiciary and a year a target for what he claimed could not be an individual explanation, because it was not intended by law, that we had not conducted a resolution, and the Constitutional Court had ordered us on the basis of the views, although he said he respected European standards, so he changed them, as if he did not know them in July 2009, I agree that the VSS could review each individual decision made. The reasons are written. (President: Time. My impression is that they were afraid there would be no reason for each individual judge, and there were.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48140	Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48141	So now I find out for the first time that you have the right to break the law and that you will justify it by passing a law in the Serbian Parliament. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Ivica Dacic signed a conclusion paying thousands of salaries outside the law. And that someone will have to answer. This blow to Serbia's constitutional order, I feel sorry for those people. I didn't get them out of the judiciary, you did. But you should have expelled them by earning them to be expelled, not because they don't belong to political parties. When you boast about the European Commission's findings, how come in December this negative attitude? What is the conclusion, last one, where this last sentence is from your conclusion - therefore urgent measures need to be taken to remove the results of the re-election process. Is that a successful reform? Did he thank you for choosing well? Why wouldn't Mr. Phil, where the representatives of the parliamentary groups, tell us that you didn't respect their recommendations, that they said that you would adopt certain amendments to make this choice of judges and that the laws would comply with European law? You disrespected it and then he said – now you will have to adopt new amendments. So there will be amendments and additions to the laws that the European Commission will make, and you here pretend like you don't know anything. You're still telling us here, that you guarantee that no one, against whom there is no evidence, will be prosecuted. Who are you? Is that judicial independence? The minister of justice determines who will be brought against. This is poor Serbia, Mrs. Malovic. This poor Serbia is what you've brought us to. What do they tell you that only one case of 1,500 was solved before the Constitutional Court? What reminds you that judges must travel and thus create new costs and threaten their safety? Have you read the European Commission's findings? Did you go somewhere to Europe to see the judges work? They're not party students.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48142	Time. Mrs. Mesarovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48143	I'm sorry, I don't like to go public, but I have to answer. The high council of the judiciary worked under the law and made a general choice, not re-election and enforcement. I repeat it a hundred times, and it's not our fault. Why the Constitutional Court did and turned the constitutional appeal, which is the only remedy and which has a completely different role in the proceedings in relation to the Constitutional Court's appeal, and brought the Supreme Council to the judiciary there to answer the reasons, the other day I was and explained to the unworthy judge the reasons and explained who had been handling the case for seven years since the prosecution. None of the previous presidents of the courts filed proceedings, nor took care of them. Judge Hadzi Omerovic has been cold-headed for seven years against judges of the Court of Commerce who are responsible for the crime of taking bribes. Please don't say we had no reason. We had reasons. They ceased to hold the judge's office not because we resolved or renamed them, but because their judicial duty ceased under the law, on the basis of the transitional provisions of Article 101. You gentlemen have passed that law. One more thing to tell you, everything you don't think there is an independent judiciary, I assure you that an independent and independent judiciary exists from the moment... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Where does an independent judiciary come from? Why not? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I guess the prosecution is on its own. ) The prosecution is only on its own, and the judiciary is independent and independent. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Independent. It's enough for me that it's independent. ) Independent in making decisions, not in something else. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: If he does not interfere, who is independent? ) Just one more thing to tell you, that party membership of any judge was not the reason why this judge was not elected. That's not true at all. At first, we agreed, and I represented that attitude, that they were only quality and quantity, both by quality and by dignity. I don't care who's a party member or who's a fan. Now the judge can't be a member of any party. Don't pay our respects, we really didn't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48144	Mr. Aligrudic didn't understand me. Now we understand each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48145	When we talk about judicial reform, it is obvious that not only the Venice Commission, but also the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, this country has not come far. Two types of monitoring are under way before the Council of Europe. I am not talking about the EU, but I am talking about the Council of Europe, the oldest European organisation to which this country is a member. I'm not talking about organizations whose member we want or don't want to be, or whether we're going to be or not, but whose member we are. The biggest objections to the monitoring of the Committee of Ministers coming towards us right from the area of the judiciary. Comments coming from the Parliament Assembly of the Council of Europe monotorising, without which there is no stripping of the monitoring process or facilitating the position in the monitoring process at the Council of Europe, come again, from the area of the judiciary. One of the topics is exactly the way the judges were chosen. The problem is complex, because he based on a legal solution based on whom the election comes, and then, the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, regardless of what the High Council of the judiciary is doing part of its work, which is why, not because it has an obligation to coordinate judges. There is no, of course, but it is responsible for the overall situation and for the state of legislation in that area, because you are the promoter. As you said a little while ago, you said you owed the Serbian Parliament and this state some changes in this area and we're waiting to see that. My question to you from it arises. What do you mean, within what time and in what way do you adapt Serbia's legislation to the views of the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe? That's the first thing I care about. These views, as far as I know, are not compatible with the European Commission's views, but rather the opposite. When and in what time are you going to do it? When it comes to this scandal, regarding the choice of judges, which we have had a lot of, because it is not only about the application of the law and the legal solution that it is about, but about another matter, and I am finishing this up, it is about that the judge was proven and demonstrated such and obvious nepotism, that it is not recorded in this country almost as high as it is – that the son of the President of the High Council is elected to the judicial office and that the President of the High Council of the judiciary, even if he does not exclude his voice or his participation in the work at that time. It's not even the law anymore. Another thing, when it's a word, and I end up with this, well, in the second part.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48146	Time. Mrs. Mesarovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48147	I've already answered you once about this nepotism, which is why you call me. I don't know what it was like in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, but I know from FNRJ and beyond, there were relations in the family to inherit the profession and if people meet the conditions that there was no reason not to be. You didn't mind, Mr. Aligrudic, having members or supporters of your party in the same court in Belgrade, in the same council, in the second degree. You didn't mind when the brother-in-law inherited his daughter-in-law, but you do mind that Judge Nate Mesarovic's son, who was elected judge, has progressed again. You chose him while you were in power, and that was your suggestion, because he deserved it and deserved it and progressed. As for whether or not I have excluded my vote, I have to tell you something, since you are constantly talking about transparency, you could come and take the minutes from the session, when it was voted not only on my son but also on other people who were in a relationship, because it was foreseen by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the High Council of the Judiciary and to make sure that someone excluded the vote, whether it was there when it was voted on by his wife, sister, aunt, godmother. It's much more dangerous what you do and you point someone else at this or whoever needs support. Don't do this to me anymore. My son deserves it and don't put him in a position to criticise the Supreme Court in Belgrade for not solving rehabilitation procedures, and then the President of the Court says - we'll make a great deal of it. We'll put Vladimir Mesarovic as president of the council to keep Nata Mesarovic quiet. You won't be able to do that with any other question. We're professional, decent and honest people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48148	As a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, I would like to point out once again that judges in Serbia have been elected on the basis of three criteria - expertise, dignity and training, and that this is the only thing that has led us to choose judges and their advancements. You mentioned here, about the Council of Europe and one part of the Council of Europe, the Committee of Ministers. I will now quote to you the report that we received from the Council of Europe, which was made on 19 August this year, so, from the General Secretariat, so that I may not be able to interpret, I will read you certain parts of this report. It says on page 10 -- there is little public confidence in the judicial and prosecutorial system in the Serbian judiciary, and reform was necessary. The wide public believes that there is a long history of abuse and judicial mistakes in the judiciary, and that it is subject to inappropriate political influences. The demands of the society for judicial reform are very pronounced. In addition, the previous system was badly structured and not truly functional. In many respects, therefore, a reform was needed. Then, judicial reform in Serbia is a complex task. The ministry of justice has made significant efforts and is working intensively to implement the National Strategy for Justice Reform, adopted in 2005, I remind you. In turn, the ministry has made it clear that the proposed reforms are comprehensive, and due to the need for many reforms to be implemented quickly, it is quite inevitable that some mistakes may have occurred. However, the justice ministry has expressed its readiness to address the problems arising from the framework for implementation of the reform. Then, on page 11, it concludes -- although politicians supported the initial idea of reform in the public, self-application of reform, in particular the general choice of judges, has caused major interference in Serbian society in general, as well as in the judicial order. Although there is no doubt that Serbian authorities are facing significant challenges in their efforts to implement reform, they should continue to make efforts to identify solutions that will serve the ultimate goal of reform, a more functional judiciary that will be in line with the expectations of the wider public, as well as standards of the Council of Europe, which Serbia is obliged to respect. That's exactly what we're doing going towards it. (President: Time. We'll talk more about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48149	Mr. Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48150	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic, it's okay that you read it, and you should. There are, of course, arguments about how to read it on both sides. But since I no longer have time, this moment has been rather provocative, I must say, Mrs Mesarovic, that you sent a letter on February 18th 2010 saying that all members were exempt from the process of considering and voting on the candidate who is their relative. That's what it says in your memo. However, at point 16, these are not memos, the Supreme Council of the Judiciary claims that all Council sessions were attended by all ten members without exception. If you don't think that exemption was done by people sitting there and just saying -- you know what, it's my son or my aunt, I don't want to vote. But, you see, colleagues, what you will and how you will. I don't mind. We proposed your son to Belgrade and we were right when we did. That's not at all what this is about. You're completely replacing the thesis when it comes to my question. Let me ask you, it's okay that we voted for him, but it's not right for you to raise your hand, to be there and watch your members and colleagues do it. That's not right. After all, you didn't have to agree to be president of the High Council of Justice, that's what this is about. As the health minister did not have to agree to be a health minister, if he had already had to go to surgery in Germany. That's what this is about. It's about the moral ratio to that whole story, and that's whose sympathiser, who supports who, don't, please. The whole of Serbia knows for you that you are very indirect, but a strong exponent of a political party in Serbia, that is DS. Everybody knows that in this country. Don't say things like that. So that absolutely doesn't matter. In the end, very simple and simple, when we talk about morality, how many receipts do you have? What are you all a member of? The High Council of the Judiciary, as president, so you're the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. You're getting paid there. What kind of compensation do you receive as a member of the High Court Council?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48151	Time. Mrs. Mesarovic, you have your word. It shouldn't be an advantage to our children, but it shouldn't be a handicap, which is our children, which are of quality. Here you go, Mrs. Mesarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48152	I'm very sorry, Mr. Aligrudic, that you're banalizing such a serious topic today in the Assembly. We're discussing some other issues. Serbia wants to go to Europe, Serbia has conditions, Serbia has to change laws and Serbia has to correct mistakes. Whether one judge is going to be more or less, that's another question. To whether I'm the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, I guess I am, as soon as I enter this house. There you were when I was elected and your former minister, who congratulated me, and one way or another, and other people from your party. So, do I have the right to pay, so she's regulated by law before I became President of the Court. Is the President of the Supreme Cassation Court also the President of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary? Yes, it is. So, what do I do to you? I have my free time, and I also have my working day and I act in accordance with the law. I'm not in a conflict of interest anywhere, I don't have two functions anywhere, and don't you say it. That's what the law predicted. I will now explain to you why this objection to the High Council of the Judiciary and the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is not in one person. That's what comes behind those who are opponents of the reform. Why? Because the President of the Supreme Cassation Court has the best insight into the results of the work and all those criteria that each judge in Serbia has individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48153	Mrs. Malovic, you have two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48154	The solution that exists in our judicial system, that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the High Council of the judiciary is not unique, exists in other legal systems, and we have taken particular care of the comparative experience. I'll tell you that such a solution exists, for example. Spain, where there is considered to be the largest transition in the existence of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Also, such a solution exists in the countries of the region, with the fact that it honestly works for the public of Serbia, I will say that for example. Compared to another region country, the Serbian judiciary may have the most conjecture on ensuring judicial independence because, for example, in some countries in the region, one part of the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is proposed by the President of the Republic. I now speak as a citizen of Serbia, not as a minister of justice. I don't want to live in a country where the president of the Supreme Cassation Court's salary will be such that it doesn't settle its basic costs. I will also tell you that we have done an analysis in relation to the salaries of the countries in the region and that the salary of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court in Serbia, unrelated to who is at the head of it, represents the lowest salary in the region. We are about to advocate that through this issue, Serbia's judiciary will also be independent. We'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48155	Mrs. Veronica Radeta has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we do not need any Stefan File and no European Commission to know what the problems in the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia are. We are talking about this primarily on the basis of our party programme and based on what we know, as responsible and as professional people and on what is the consequences of your so-called. judicial reform. I would remind you that two years ago, precisely, it was December 9, 2008, we talked about the reform of the judiciary you offered us, and then we made it clear to you exactly what problems you will face and what problems the state of Serbia will face, if you do what you did. I'm sorry that we don't have time to remind you today, from word to word, what we Serbian radicals told you at the time, and today you're facing these problems and you're trying to get out of this mess that you've done yourself because you imagined that you were able to make some kind of reform, and then you made a re-election of judges, quite the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Mesarovic, what you're saying isn't re-election, I don't know who you can convince. You yourself know it is, but well, you're trying to defend yourself against what you've been involved in, as a member of the High Council. It would be good, Mrs. Malovic, to tell us what you're going to talk about with unselected judges after all this time? What happened to those claims of yours and, above all, Mrs. Nate Mesarovic's claims that a large number of judges who have not been re-elected, prosecutors, of course, were people who were prone to corruption among other things, whether there was a case against such people, what you did, whether you had just resolved them, and today, who is responsible for having received the salary after all this time, if they really don't deserve to be judges, and who is responsible that they are not judges, if they turn out to be again after the Constitutional Court's decision. If you were making a party judiciary, you prove it every day, and the best example is what happened in the First Court on Friday, that the trial of Mrs. Bosiljko Mladic was started, because...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48157	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48158	Let me finish my sentence, for God's sake...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48160	Before I start answering you, for the sake of real public information, I will remind you that the general election procedure in Serbia is not the opposite of the Constitution, and that is not my opinion, but the opinion of the Constitutional Court. In July 2009, before starting the general election procedure, the Constitutional Court gave its opinion on the submitted initiatives by the Society of Judges on certain provisions of the law and in its decision, I am sorry that I did not take it, that I can quote you, but I am sure that you will believe me, and besides, you can make sure, since there is a general choice on their website, that there is no longer the continuity of the judicial function, and that this continuity in the judicial function was interrupted in 2006, which you also supported and that the procedure of the general election that was provided for and in the judicial laws, as you yourself have observed, which were defended in this Parliament two years ago, and in accordance with the constitution. You have asked a question about unselected judges, who are suspected of their dignity, especially in the light of whether they participated in certain corrupt activities, what has been done, and I will remind you and the public of Serbia that recently in the Special Court a case was initiated at the beginning of this year with regard to a deputy prosecutor, who was first sentenced to 4 years in prison for taking bribes. This is one of the results, which followed the general election in relation to that deputy prosecutor who was not elected. Also, another verdict has been reached in the Special Court compared to one of the judges of the Trade Court, who was first sentenced to one year in prison, and a measure of security and banning the exercise of judicial office has been imposed. Also, you asked what you'd talk to judges who weren't elected? The same thing that makes the Constitutional Court, which it has failed to do throughout this year, how much action there is before those authorities. We're going to give an opportunity to plead to the allegations that already exist in individual reasons, and I want to point out that again, so there are these arguments that have been written and that have been delivered to the unselected judges and prosecutors, the deputy prosecutors, and the Constitutional Court, we're going to ask the question on the grounds of this individual argument to make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48161	Mrs. Radeta has two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48162	I will try to finish the sentence, and you do not seem to allow us to mention here General Mladic's family's torture and the torture conducted by the judiciary by conducting a criminal case against Bosa Mladic. I want to ask two specific questions in line with the Rules of Procedure, two questions, because this debate is quite a farce, but we will use this opportunity to ask what is within the jurisdiction of both of them and other ladies who represent the judicial system in Serbia today, what can be done if there is a criminal complaint filed by the people of the SRS against certain Steve Zivanovic and Branislav Prostran, the President of Zemun municipality, and we have evidence and these evidence has been presented to the D.A., that the two have tried to buy one council member of the Zemun municipality and offered him bribes in various things, and in cash a total of 100,000 euros. Imagine the D.A. says there's no room for prosecution. Tomislav Nikolic said in time that Vojislav Seselj of The Hague had ordered his murder. Milan Terzic, our president's lawyer, received an official act from the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes informing him that there are no grounds for doubt that Vojislav Seselj has tried such a thing. Before that, we filed criminal charges against Nikolic. Imagine what your independent prosecutor's office says? He says there is no basis for the prosecution of Tomislav Nikolic, in addition to such false lies and untruths and the deception of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48163	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48164	I didn't quite understand the last question, but I'll try to answer it. First, I want to be fenced by your attitude that this is a farce. I don't think it's a farce, and it's not the way we should talk about the session that's taking place in this honored home, and I'm sure you don't think so, because you wouldn't participate, as I don't want to participate in a farce. Under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice to control and ensure the smooth work of the courts and within that we have certain powers both in terms of courts and in terms of the prosecution, and what you think is the subject of a play that can be addressed to the Ministry of Justice, we will be very happy to fulfil our obligation, it is our obligation. I've written down the criminal charges you said you filed and within your jurisdiction, of course we'll examine it. With this response and the attitude you received from the Special Prosecutor's Office, I didn't understand whether you had a negative attitude on this matter or a positive one, and what it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48165	Don't argue with the minister, you had the right to ask a question. The word has Mrs. Mesarovic, you have three minutes and 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48166	Since I know Mrs. Verice Radet well, and she knows me, I'm pretty sure she knows what to do in case the prosecutor writes that there is no place for prosecution and that there are no circumstances that point to an act being prosecuted by official duty. Therefore, since there are many of you in the SRS, who are affirmative lawyers, I expect that you will take advantage of the legal possibilities and do so yourself. I don't like the statement by the Minister of Justice, which I must now say will record the criminal charges filed and speak to the handling prosecutor. If we just said that the prosecution was an independent authority, that it acted, made its decision, then such an authority should be allowed to stand by its decision, and you can then, in the process, force the prosecutor to join if there are conditions to continue the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48167	Since the president, or representative of the parliamentary groups, is no longer interested in participating in this part of our work, we are moving on to the list by order of MPs according to the application. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48168	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Cvetkovic, Mrs Mesarovic and Mrs Malovic, I will try to get this debate back, although in it we do not have the right to conclude, to return to the level where we can really seriously discuss the problems that exist. We in judicial reform obviously have a problem. She's not finished. The fact that it is not finished automatically indicates its effectiveness. On the other hand, it obliges us to see to what extent we are responsible for such a situation that is unacceptablely bad in our judiciary and to define a plan that will be resolved. I have a Constitution ahead of me. This is the 2006 Constitution. I also have constitutional law. According to the Constitution and constitutional law, it is clear, Mrs Malovic and Mrs Mesarovic, that we chose judges, rather than resolving judges, replaced them for one of the reasons, I think there are three reasons. We chose judges. Is the number of judges elected, Mrs Malovic, sufficient for the effective work of our judiciary? That's the first question. Another question for you, Mrs. Mesarovic – you have made it back to the start of the selection process for the new members of the High Council of the judiciary, as we have been informed in the media, so at which speed this job can be done and will those systemic problems that arise again be removed, not from, in our opinion, a whim, but from the fact that we have been pressed by deadlines, on January 1st, when the reform had to be functional, and on the other hand blocked in its preparations for proceedings conducted before the courts? So, when will the new High Judiciary Council be formed, and how will this be arranged? For you, Mrs. Malovic, is this number of judges enough for the normal work of our judiciary?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48169	Here you go, Mrs. Mesarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48170	Let me go in reverse, since you have asked a specific question for Minister Malovic, and she has given me the consent to answer about the number of judges established by the decision of the High Council of Justice. It was 1,800 judges in Serbia and you must understand that it is a sufficient number. When they ask me how many judges are missing in Serbia, I say -- there are none missing, but we have 150 seats available, and we will fill those 150 judges' seats when a new High Council of Justice is elected. Why am I telling you this? I've been able to visit many countries in Europe, so I can tell you that Spain has 40 million inhabitants and 4,000 judges, and Serbia has, you know, over six million inhabitants and currently has 2,000 judges. I think that's quite a number. To talk about what judges judge and how they judge, that's another question. For example, the judge in Spain and France has no expert associate to assist him, and we have introduced the possibility and obligation for each court to be an expert associate who will make decisions and assist him in preparing the case. The same burden of judges in Serbia must be ensured. This has to be followed and we've already done it for six months and nine months. There are courts, especially in the southern part of Serbia, where there are several judges and there is no reason why the High Council of the Judiciary should not use the law to refer judges to the courts of the same degree of jurisdiction elsewhere where there are more cases and to improve this. I don't think it's a problem with the number of judges, but the problem was in the number of cases that were inherited, and now we're getting reports from the president of the courts that they were standing somewhere in the depots in some sort of detention facility in commercial courts. For all of this, there is a record in the High Judiciary Council and it is not a problem for the number of judges in Serbia, which will be regulated in any case by this choice of 150 that has been made. The number of judges in Serbia has been determined on the basis of three-year results of judges' work on matter. So it's not general for everyone, it's by matter, by courts, etc. And by the expected inflow of objects for this year. It must be borne in mind that since we started this year from the beginning, from a zero point, we have fully formed a new network of courts, that we cannot claim and say at the end of the year – the apriors of reform have succeeded, the judges have completed everything that someone has not completed for 15 and 20 years. That's just impossible. But by changing procedural laws and passing laws in this assembly on public notebooks, I think that the courts will be relieved and that they will be able to work effectively, as all other courts in Europe do. As far as this second issue is concerned, which is why I have put aside the decision, some media say, put my decision out of force, I can tell you that on November 26th of this year I made a decision repealing the decision of 30 September to initiate the procedure for proposing candidates for election members of the High Council of Judges. For what? Because he came to Serbia, the EU commissioner said, what the minister was saying earlier, that a draft law had been sent saying that 10 judges could propose a candidate. In this assembly, a member of the law was adopted that he did not have to be elected and proposed to the Assembly for a member of the High Council of the judiciary who received the highest number of votes. Therefore, when you are that version of the law, which you sent to the European Commission and the Venice Commission, you deliver here in the Assembly for the Amendment of those two members, there is no reason, in an urgent procedure, not to proceed immediately with this procedure of running and electing a new composition of the High Council of the judiciary. So, as the minister says, it seems to me that she has some information or arrangements, that it must be by March. If so, the High Council of the Judiciary will work in constant composition and I hope that you will change the provisions of the Law on Judges, those which will allow this procedure to be completed in the best way, not to be interviewed, but to remove those who remain, and where we have no information about their, example, unworthyness or their untrainedness. We used the Justice Department's data and other state authorities, so we had no reason to doubt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48171	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48172	Mrs. Mesarovic, I have a question for you again. In fact, the Constitutional Law, article 7, is very clear. We think the point is actually: "The election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the first election of the Supreme Court judges will be carried out no later than 90 days from the date of the establishment of the Supreme Judicial Council. The election of judges and presidents of other courts will be carried out no later than one year from the date of the establishment of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. "Article 8: "Selectment of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors". There's nowhere to talk about re-election or resolution. We have this constitution and the chaos that exists, which we're talking about, actually stems from this calculatorization of institutions that have no right to do so. If parliament is to change the laws that are an obstacle to an effective extension of judicial reform, parliament will change that, but parliament cannot change the constitution. The constitution established a category of elections and judges and prosecutors. We expect those who are the judicial authority in the land to act strictly with the Constitution, or to oppose that which forces them and pushes them into violation of the Constitution. We cannot implement judicial reform against the Constitution. If we're talking about choice, then it's about choice, not re-election. We've got a problem with 800 judges who haven't been elected, and they've been judges before. They are calling for the right guaranteed by the 1990 Constitution. In the 2006 Constitution, we practically broke up this legal continuity of the continuity of the judge's office. If we know it takes 1,800 judges, i.e. If you've made such a point, these 800 judges who filed their complaints have no basis for the appeal, because the Constitution is also taking away the Constitutional Court's conclusion from July 2009. The independent judiciary has to resolve it, it cannot be a parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48173	Mrs. Mesarovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48174	If you were referring to the High Council of the Judiciary, I repeat, we acted under the Constitution, constitutional law, the Law on Judges and the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, and that is quite clear. When some changes occur, we will act as law enforcement officers. As for the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, at first I said what were the objections of the Venice Commission and I returned you to the beginning, afraid that you forgot that the objections were made to both the Constitution and the Constitutional Law regarding the planned election of judges in the Republic of Serbia. I can't change the Constitution or the Constitutional Law in front of the VSS, I can only apply it, I can make a proposal to the Justice Department to take appropriate measures. That's where we'll fully agree to that goal. We have respected the decision and the Constitutional Court since July 2009, so the decision in the Saveljic case is one, by the criteria, the worst judge in Serbia, I think it was a bad example by which the Constitutional Court in Serbia held a lesson and extended powers that it did not have and asked the VSS to do what it was not under the Constitution or by law, but the Constitutional Court has the right to take views, has the right and to change attitudes, it can now change attitudes when it works in full membership of 15 judges. I don't see any reason not to. The introduction of constitutional right to appeal by unselected judges, which has not been introduced anywhere, is something the Constitutional Court has done, although it has said that all laws have been passed in accordance with European standards. Why would he do that? Because he wanted to choose judges instead of VSS, but it seems to me that now everyone has come to their senses of jurisdiction, so the Constitutional Court has realized that it can only either refuse a person's appeal or adopt it, annul the decision and return the VSS to decide again on the right of that judge. What's wrong with that? Of course it's wrong, we didn't respect it, VSS, it is, I told you we wrote 500 plus 600, but we don't respect the trial within a reasonable time and unselected judges. They could have been in the Constitutional Court, had grounds for that, annulled the decision on the non-election of people who did not go through that general choice and returned the VSS to decide on these people again. It was much simpler and much shorter. They had more constitutional and legal powers to do so. Why were they introducing attitudes? I can't answer that, but it's a fact. ) that there were objections to the 2006 Constitution regarding the elections, and to the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the general elections in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48175	Mr. Riza Halimi has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48176	Thank you, Madam President. Through the question of Minister Malovic, I will launch two topics that are very important for our area. The first issue is the achievement of rationality, which was one of the most important criteria of judicial reform, which has not been achieved by one-year practice, at least when it comes to the problem, in general, the processing of all proceedings, in this case of criminal cases, and in the area of judicial units Presevo and Bujanovac in the Vranje Court of Fundamental Court. In addition to people traveling 50 to 60 kilometers and as witnesses, even in a number of other properties, Presevo also has a very traffic border crossing, so all participants of any criminal cases must travel from the border crossing, and foreigners, and confiscated cars, trucks. All of this should then be transmitted directly and processed in return. I think it's very irrational, impractical. The question is, what's the most urgent thing to do, that all these actions don't collect, they don't take time away from the citizens? And as the simplest witnesses, a man must lose all day. There's also the follow-up costs. I think this situation is really unsustainable. I'd like to add the investigation procedure. Everything is absolutely being performed in Vranj, and far simpler and rational was earlier practice when it was done by municipal courts in Presevo and Bujanovac. Another issue is the implementation of the constitutional standard, the use of Albanian language parallel to Serbian. It started, there are positive shifts, in terms of providing translators, writers, but I don't think that essentially this problem is solved, because for the essential implementation of bilingualism there must be adequate solutions, because it is an increased amount of work, which is currently not worth it. If the judge is in danger of not meeting the norm with other colleagues who work in one language, then either improvised or perhaps sometimes, not directly, indirect methods force the party to conduct the procedure in one language, which endangers both the legal and constitutional norm of using minority language in court proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48177	Time. Mrs. Malovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48178	I thank Mr. Halimi for asking. I think we have an ongoing dialogue on the functioning of the Vranj court and the Presevo judicial unit. This isn't the first time we've talked about it, we're doing it whenever possible. I think the Department of Justice, within its jurisdiction, has made it maximum of respect for a multiethnic principle. At the very least, the VSS did so during the general election. I think we agree on who it was, however respected it might be. Also, I want to point out the fact that for the first time in law enforcement it was precisely respect for this multiethnic principle. We also did so when we were building a regulation on the systematization and organisation of jobs within the court. You know, on several occasions, we have just called competitions so that we can respect it and that people, not only by multiethnic principle, but also by some other principles concerning working relationship and employment, can be employed within the court. We'll do it in the future, in the future elections, and I don't think there's any doubt that it's necessary. After all, it is our obligation both to the law and to the Constitution. As for the functioning of the judicial units, we've talked about it here before and today we've talked about it. I said it and I'll repeat that we're not extremely negative, to talk about it. So far, I see that the Presevo judicial unit is working well, but wherever there are suggestions, objections or criticisms that need to be improved or in a different way to be set up, of course we are willing to listen. Also, I don't know how much this will mean to us, but I have another obligation to point out that self-application of the Registrar is part of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, the other part in the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court and the VSS. As we have done this year, to control the application of the Rules of Procedure and the way the judicial units are arranged, we will do so in the future. Wherever there's room for improvement, we'll be very happy to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48179	Mr. Riza Halimi has two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48180	Just to make a point and ask the question again – what is the problem with short-term proceedings, up to five years, not being able to process them in judicial units, because most of the cases are from that area? Secondly, as regards the use of minority language, I have already said that there are positive shifts, in the sense that translators are provided, that there are securityists, but I insist that far more should be done with trainees, judicial assistants, in order to create one staff base for future competitions, where Albanians could compete, not only in the basic court, but also in higher courts, where they would then have a better staff situation and opportunities to be adequately proportionate to representation in all judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48182	There's no problem. That's exactly what I said. You've just pointed out a brief procedure here. The Registrar also allows the shortened procedure to take place in judicial units. I just told you that. We're going to do a review of the application of the Rules of Procedure and where it's justified, and certainly it is a justifiable place where you come from, that it's going on there, and I don't see any reason why it shouldn't be arranged that way. As far as minority language is concerned, you said that we were trying to be respected here and to be employed and interpreted within the court. As for the intern, I fully share your opinion. If we're talking about the national principle, I think that people in court, and if we're talking about judicial functions, they also need the trainee himself to be employed within the court and within the prosecution. It's the best way to educate them, educate them for future judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48183	Ambassador Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, just relaxfully, Mrs Malovic, the respected citizens of Serbia, when defended indefensibly, then this session slowly turns into a failed press conference for the ruling coalition's representatives. Since our rules of procedure are very rigid in terms of time, we will have to speak quickly. At the very beginning, let's clear up any misunderstandings. Our criticism of what you call judicial reform is not a politically motivated attack on Serbia's judiciary, but we want to find out who are responsible people and the real culprits for the disastrous situation in the Serbian judiciary. Many things were clear to us when you proposed a set of judicial laws. That's what we indicated would have devastating consequences. You didn't believe us at the time, but it was already proven at that famous consultation in Vrnjačka Banja, when both the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly were present, and the minister of police and justice, in order to iron out the solutions provided for in those laws. At the time, it was, I'm sure, clear and clear to all those people who applied for a new choice in the new judiciary in the newest Serbia. That's when you, Madam Minister, said that it takes a year to assess the reform of the judiciary. Here, in December we are discussing the effects of this reform. We would like to hear you, what is done in judicial reform, except that the names of the courts, their seats have been changed and some new judges have been elected. The reform by definition should be a change in the best, not worse, and we have a situation that since 2009 and the High Council of the judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors have practically produced lawlessness in this country. The High Council of the Judiciary did not deal in its work, i.e. it did not prove the intricacies, inability and inadequacy of the candidates, but expressed doubts that a particular candidate did not meet the requirements, doubt as such in the performance of Nate Mesarovic and Boška Ristic. The result of such self-will is hundreds of complaints, not complaints, over 800 complaints from all those people who have not been re-elected to the judiciary. Some 30 discussions have been held to date. According to dynamics, six cases are processed daily, which means that somewhere in May 2011 the whole process will be completed. What is the point of the whole story, the Constitutional Court of Serbia cannot return unselected judges to work after its decision. He will only give his opinion, and does that mean that the High Council of the Judiciary as a second-degree body will again decide on their choice. The best evidence that a number of failures and errors have been made throughout this process is the government's conclusion that all unselected judges are paid until the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision. To be clear, I don't mind that, but the government has admitted that a series of failures have been made and, by the way, the last salary for these people was paid in September. We can conclude that some judges are under review in 2008 and not in 2006 and 2007. How many prosecutors travel daily, how much savings are in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, since the state touches the elected judges and prosecutors for 250 euros for housing, travel expenses and when will the presidents of the courts be elected?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48186	I realized the question was addressed to me, so I'd be happy to give you an answer. I have to tell you at the beginning of the answer that we're not acting casually, as was your expression. On the contrary, the time is not for relaxation. We believe that we are at the door of the EU, and therefore we are trying to bring our entire justice system into line within our jurisdiction and adapt to it, while respecting the standards set by the European Commission. Also, we don't iron things in our work, we try to close and solve all open issues. We don't have a problem taking responsibility for that job. We think that this job we're doing is important, that it's far-reaching and that the results of this work will only be seen in the next period. You quoted my speech at the annual consultation in Vrnjačka Banja, which was last year, and it is true that I said that the results of the judicial reform cannot be seen a few months after that. They can be seen after a certain period. It's not even an adequate period of a year, but I'll tell you what the results of the judicial reform are after six months. It would be a great pleasure when the High Council of the Judiciary presents its annual report on the work to attend this presentation. For example, for business courts, statistics show that in the first six months, first-degree economic courts resolved 30% more cases compared to the same period last year. It's verifiable data. They're on the High Judiciary Council's Internet station, so you can see for yourself. Also, every judge in the commercial appeals court solved 20% more cases compared to the same period last year. It is also very important to point out that the number of cases older than two years in first-degree commercial courts in the first six months of 2010 compared to the same period last year has been reduced by 36%, more specifically from 2,375 cases to 1,523 cases. So it's very explicit. In the commercial appeals court, the number of cases older than two years from January to June 2010 decreased by 84% compared to the same period in 2009. Also, given that these results have been achieved with a smaller number of judges, since the issue has been raised around the number of judges and other employees, then success in the work of economic courts can be considered even more significant, one example is that with a smaller number of employees good results can be achieved. I remind you that one of the fundamental objectives of judicial reform, which we set for ourselves when we started in this business, was to raise efficiency in the work of the courts, to step up the fight against organised crime and corruption and to protect investment through the conduct of the economic judiciary. I can point out the results he's achieved, for example. A senior court in Belgrade, compared to the district court for the same period. In criminal cases, the Belgrade District Court has conducted 10.57 cases by judge, while the Supreme Court in Belgrade in the investigation department solves 28.6 cases for the first six months. The President of the High Council of the judiciary, when submitting the report on the work of the courts, pointed to a number of cases, those cases that were archived, but certainly, when it counts, they were doing much more. Also, compared to criminal and civil matter, we have results that we can present to you. All of this shows, of course, that the results of the judicial reform can be seen. Of course, it's not the end, and we're not gonna relax on this. We feel that there is much better and much more work to be done. I am deeply convinced that the High Council of the judiciary and the Supreme Cassation Court will continue to do so, and within the justice ministry. We will try to ensure all conditions for the smooth work of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48187	Mr. Petkovic, come in. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48188	Madam Minister, I assume you've consciously avoided saying the results of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, but I'm sure everyone in the O.R. has read that wonderful fairy tale that's not just for the children of Care's new suit, so you'll learn some lessons from all that. In conclusion, the European Commission's expert mission said that the re-election procedure had significant shortcomings in the composition and independence of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors as regards the application of objective criteria, reliability and the public of the overall process. I don't know how you can look in the mirror in the morning when you're washing up, when you look at the European Commission report and all the objections they've made. What's the consequence of all this? That you will be supervised by the European Commission and you will have a request for a thorough review of the whole process. The Emperor is naked, unfortunately. Boris Tadic said all these changes should be brought into line with EU requirements and urged all actors to participate in the whole process. Unfortunately, this government is making a compromise under pressure from the international public, the EU and domestic public opinion, and this is why this is happening. Let me remind you that all this has caused your resignations to be filed by both your assistant for projects and for the judiciary. Tell me, what is the deadline and when will the permanent composition of the High Council of Justice be chosen? Don't tell me you need those two changes. I personally submitted an amendment to have the judge, if he collects a number of votes to support the High Council of the Judiciary, be elected, then you are in that hall2008. years refused as undesirable. I suppose, unlike some people who receive four salaries in this country, you have a sense of social and moral and social responsibility, so tell us if they're the same ones who made these mistakes should and correct them. Give us proof that Serbia's judiciary is indeed independent or that you only accept the court of your party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48189	Here you go, Mrs. Mesarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48190	Just to be clear, since you've asked a question about the election of the president of the courts, and you've also asked the question of who will correct mistakes and responsibilities, you know what, there's no one here who avoids responsibility. From the beginning, I have said on the basis of which the High Council of the Judiciary worked, but I believe that you yourself, like those who passed the laws on the basis of the promoters, had to follow European standards and practices in the environment and not vote in favour of those laws. The High Council of the Judiciary didn't mess up. As far as the President of the Court is concerned, it was time for them to be elected within three months. The competition's been announced. Talks were held transparently with all performers of the office of the president of the courts, a formed commission. Anyone could see through a video conference what they were proposing, what so far those in office have done and found out. I'll tell you something else. Since the legal deadline for the election of the President of the Courts was three months, it means that it falls within the jurisdiction of the First Council of Justice and in two weeks I assume that you will have in the Assembly a proposal for a candidate for the Presidents of the Court. I assess and assess the full responsibility that it is not good to wait next year with the acting president of the courts and Serbia cannot be in VD condition. Someone has to be responsible for what they do in courts so that you don't have any objections as to how long the proceedings are in some cases. You know very well how it was because at the time of Minister Stojkovic, every Saturday he held an open phone to keep his citizens complaining and it did not give effect. The effects are only given when you determine how much to work, how much to gain for your work and when you determine the individual responsibility of everyone who works, and this is done by this High Council of the judiciary, all transparently, you have a website if you don't have time to question, so get to know yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48191	Mrs. Malovic, please. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48192	We have no problem taking responsibility for all open questions. We're talking to Europe. We're not turning her down, we're talking. In doing so, in these conversations we are quite honest, what we say and do, we do not make a false promise, and we do not make unreal demands that we cannot meet, but very openly say what is in the spirit of our law, what is constitutional and what is in the spirit of our legal tradition and mentality, which we can do. As for future amendments to the law and the High Council of the judiciary and the accompanying amendments that will probably have to come if we talk about the Law on Judges. As for the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, I tried to explain what happened before the Venice Commission, why this provision was not found in the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary. I believe that in the next 10 days, there will be amendments to the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, after which the election for the permanent composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary will be joined.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48193	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48194	For the sake of the public, I remind you that in December 2008, the SRS made a number of criticisms about the whole concept of reform. Everything we said would happen, unfortunately, happened. We're not like that, but since we need to ask a question, how long do you think you're falling into ruin? Answer the question honestly. To give an immediate answer why it is a disaster; so because the dialect between the Constitution, constitutional law, something called lustration, the need for parties to gain domination in the judiciary and the need for developed law offices to be dominant, made a kind of papaziania out of which it cannot come out. Of course, the main cause of this situation is money because the state got money to transform our judiciary, that it was 300 or 400 million something, I don't know what, dollars or euros, and as much as I remember you renovated that building, so you haven't paid the builders off yet. And you've demonstrated over these two years something that we've told you that you're going to demonstrate, which is that you don't know what an independent judiciary is, that you don't know what the continuity of a function is, that you don't know what the right is, and when you've passed some laws concerning elections, re-elections and everything that can be put into it, you've lost the right to access to an adequate legal means, so as a backup variant, a constitutional appeal has appeared. I like your stance on the constitutional appeal and I'm sharing it, but we have a problem with the President of the Constitutional Court, I hope that as soon as he goes to the session, that some of our justice will work. You have achieved something epochal – in addition to the strike in court, you now have a demonstration in front of the court. There, in Nis, they demonstrate in front of the Court of Appeal, they've been starving people for six days because of Nisal and some outstanding liabilities. If I took these specific examples out of your bag, you know what would happen. It ends with no one respecting even the executive title to be brought to court. It's a natural consequence, and that's why I'm asking you a question as long as you think you're falling into the destruction of justice because it's obvious that this is just the first stage. I hope that the outdated items that had to become obsolete, those 5,000 items, which is why someone entered the government even though during the election campaign it was non-European, and then it became pro-European. So, how long do you think you're going down and when you think you're getting rid of Bosko Ristic, Dusan Petrovic and Miki Rakic, because they're in charge, not you sitting there.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48195	Thank you. Mrs. Malovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48196	I understand your question – what we will do in the future with regard to further judicial reform and I will answer you accordingly. So, judicial reform is one complex process and it is one part a general choice, and the other part is a change in the process of work. I mean both criminal proceedings and litigation and enforcement proceedings. There's been a change in the organisation of work. Here we have passed several laws and other sublegal acts concerning the organisation of work and changes of consciousness which is the most difficult because we are still a transition country that had to do one way of working, with one way of state order to go the other way. As far as the general election is concerned, we are aware of it ourselves, and we have also made it very clear here that there are certain open questions. We will meet these open issues, not only during this year but also before, we will talk to the European Commission and other relevant international organisations. This will also be done in future and amendments to the laws that will lie ahead of this respected home will be among other things the result of the consensus that we have achieved with international organisations, but of course by perceiving our legal experience, legal tradition, mentality and everything else. As for the amendments to the procedural laws, we have on several occasions had a change in the CAP. During the last change to the CAP, we said it was only the first step in changing our criminal-processing legislation, that our country, which wants to go through European integration, is consulting comparative legal experiences and I am fully aware, if we are talking about the CAP, that the country of continental Europe has also gone to a new model of criminal proceedings, where one of the key institutions is conducting a prosecutor's investigation. That's what we had, for example. in Spain. Germany has moved on to this model, and at this point there is a working version of the law being discussed in France. The same is true of the litigation process. There were certain interventions concerning the litigation process. There is a working group that will be formalized these days at the level of the Ministry of Justice, where we will try to adapt our litigation process to change our consciousness and transition from one system to the functioning of the state itself, including our judiciary in a new and more modern way. The Implementing Procedure Act is currently in front of the Council of Europe. We expect their opinion on the executive procedure. I am deeply convinced that in the coming months, in the next month or two days, that law will be found in front of this honored home. We are fully aware of the procedures and problems we have in the executive procedure. We are not honored to have a large number of days and months or years of execution in Serbia, but we are acting proactively and we will also try to solve this problem. The president also said today about the law on public notebooks being prepared. At this point, the necessary opinions are collected from the competent ministries and I am deeply convinced that the next weeks will be found before the government of the RS that will establish the proposal and send this respected home. So we're going to have a discharge on the one hand if we talk business inside the court, and on the other hand, it's going to be, which is the primary goal of passing this law. We will have one faster and more efficient treatment if we talk about jobs that will move on to public notebooks, where our citizens and economic operators will be able to achieve their rights much faster. The Justice Organization, there was controversy about it, we moved on to a new network of courts. I'm glad that appeals courts have been introduced into our country. It is a newspaper, but it has also led to a quicker resolution of complaints procedures, especially when we are talking about civil proceedings. The administrative court that was once part of the Supreme Court was also introduced. I can freely say that we have made some historical decisions if we are talking about Serbia's judiciary. We will continue to take certain steps to ensure that our judiciary is more effective and that citizens are more satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we will be in direct transmission by 6:00 p.m., and after that, because of the transfer of the international basketball game that was agreed in advance, we will not be directly involved, but rather the delayed transmission will start around 10:30 p.m. Mr. Zoran Krasic is entitled to another two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48198	Just like I expected, like in a pin, like in a board. I asked you a question -- how are you going to stop falling, and now you're telling me that you're going to continue to crash in what's called transformation. Okay, but now I'm asking a question - where is this arbitraryness coming from? Now we're going to ask someone who's watching us on the side to organise a special session and we're going to talk to the unselected, and we're going to ask them how you are and what you're doing, etc. What member of the law? Excuse me, please, where did these arbitrary interpretations of some regulations come from? Then you say we'll change the law. How do you change the best pro-European law? Two years ago, you were about to bleed here that it was the best law, that there was no better law, all according to the standards of that Venice, and Vienna, and Copenhagen, and Washington, and the Stockholm Commission. Did you hear what Venice wrote for the RS Constitution? Did she say anything about choices, reelections, general choices or any synonyms that you use and that you want to undo the continuity of the judge's office and not recognise human rights? You tell me - we'll keep falling. Why? To cover up the money you spent. Come on, you spent that money, but you still owe the investors over 500 million dinars for that building where you're now walking past Nemanja's number nine. Why now the entire judiciary and all citizens would be victims of the grampity of DOS people who are only looking to get access funds to take money. Do you know how much you care about judicial reform? You don't care about that at all. You find it interesting – it holds water while the masters leave, counting on the people not to remember. They'll remember the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48199	This wasn't really a question, it was a voice of thought, of dilemma and so on. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48200	Dear Justice Minister President VSS, Mr. Prime Minister, today at this session, we are discussing the topic of an extremely important issue, one of the most important reforms in the Serbian society and the Serbian state, about judicial reform. We are not discussing the reform of the parent services in the local offices, we are discussing the reform of a branch of government. Consistent with the constitutional division of legislative, executive and judicial powers, we set out two years ago in one of the truly revolutionary reforms after half a century of tampering in this area. Of course, certain problems in the implementation of the memos must arise in such major reforms. I will just remind myself of what Ms. Malovic said that the Constitutional Court, by its decision of July 2009, was published in the Official Messenger, and not only on the Constitutional Court of Serbia's website, found that the principle of continuity of the judge's office was violated by the general choice of judges and in this context and that fact we must always go when we talk about this in parliament or the relevant European institutions. My question concerns not so many people from the profession, from the professional public, but above all a large number of citizens who are parties to various kinds of proceedings, from an executive, litigious, criminal, out-of-party procedure, which is something relating to the right to trial within a reasonable time. We must be aware of the fact that this reform, and I believe in some areas today, is to a large extent the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, and in addition to my claim is the fact that the largest number of complaints, i.e. proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, are currently subject to the right to trial within a reasonable period of time as a legal standard and a fundamental legal principle. In this regard, I am asking you, Mrs Malovic, in the framework of the legislative initiative, although you spoke about it earlier, to say something more in detail, or to you, Mrs Mesarovic, in what sense will the legislative initiative or reform in this area by the Ministry of Justice go?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48201	Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48202	In my previous presentation, I said that one of the activities of the Ministry of Justice that we are currently working on the law on the executive procedure is, more specifically, to be called the law on enforcement and security, and that is something that is part of the Serbian judiciary that must be reformed in this respect. Of course, if we are talking about reform in this respect, it is essential that the law be passed, and it is also important that the law be applied. When we approached the amendments to the law, we did some tests. Then we learned from these analyses that, if we talk about executing within Serbia, it is on average 500 days, which is unacceptable. Standards within EU countries say the enforcement process takes 30 to 40 days at the most. Of course, then we tried to figure out what the acute points are, even though we're talking about those litigation procedures that take place between individuals, or what they can and what is also very important, if we talk about further development of investments, which are acute points, if we're talking about the execution of economic operators. The law, the working version of the law that we have drawn up and which is currently in the opinion of the Council of Europe, provides for a more modern way of implementing the procedure. On the other hand, it also foresees what exists in EU countries and beyond, and this is a matter of private enforcement of private perpetrators. We tried to establish rules by which private perpetrators are named, control of their work, in which procedures may come, of course, not to disrupt the disposition of parties. I am deeply convinced that, when we apply this law, we will be able to treat this area and that one final result of the application of this law will also be to reduce the number of cases currently in front of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The largest number of objects that are currently treating this area. I'm going to go a little further on this question of yours and point out the non-execution in criminal proceedings. That's something we pointed out when we were making analysis and criminal policies and the limitations of criminal prosecution. For example, there were procedures that were known in public, which were initiated by the Ministry of Justice, known as the Ilarion case or the Pahomia case, where there was just an obscenity of criminal prosecution. In these cases, the possibility of executing criminal convictions has also been impaired. What I'm saying is that we've also treated this area and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is in preparation, at this point is the end of the public debate on this law. I am deeply convinced that early next year, and perhaps already in January, that law will be found in front of this house. The application of the law will, in our opinion, also allow for the acceleration of criminal proceedings within Serbia to be carried out equally.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48203	Mrs. Mesarovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48204	I have to tell you that the reform only started because of the congestion of the courts, the limitations of the case, the length of the lawsuits for 20 years and more, in criminal cases of 10 years or more. It was necessary to create an effective, transparent, independent judiciary and equal access to justice for all citizens in the Republic of Serbia and to ensure a reasonable trial. How will the trial be ensured within a reasonable period of time? So if you create all the preconditions that judges can do their jobs on time. They must have information technology, accommodation facilities, new laws or amended laws that will allow faster compliance with deadlines. In any case, to ensure that it does not happen as the case happened, Novakovic, who was questioned before the UN Human Rights Committee, that the Supreme Third Municipal Court or now the First Basic Court has conducted the procedure for seven years and has not reached a decision. Or in the Zekovic case, which I represented before the Constitutional Court the other day, where six main searches were held in seven years. More guilty, some of them are college professors, more of them are judges of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade. There's a lot of stuff like that. So, standardizing the judge's work. Give them help through expert associates. Introduce new technologies. Ensure that everyone gets the right to a natural judge, then we will set deadlines for making written decisions, not just what the law says, so that the President of the Court does not determine procedures for the speedy settlement of cases and urgent settlement of cases. That is all that must be done in judicial reform, in order for this reform to be assessed as successful. If you have a united operation in Serbia, as it has been for the past year, for those implementing the reform -- to prevent, to ask for a constitutional appeal. Even in the case where the complainants themselves have baptised their legal means as a constitutional appeal, because the law tells them so. We have come to a situation where the Constitutional Court tells them that it is an appeal to the Constitutional Court, because it enables a different position, a different nature, a legal fact, and then allows them to have a different structure, to bring the High Court of Justice to the Constitutional Court, to turn the Constitutional Court into a court to resolve working disputes, to determine the facts, and not to make a changeling decision. This is something that should have been avoided and for which the High Council of the Judiciary is not responsible. I've been listening here several times today to mention some particular law firm that they were making a choice of judges. I'd really like to be called the names of that office, so I can check something like that. That's the first I've heard of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48205	Time. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48206	Just a short question, and again this first question of mine and the answers given by both the Minister and the President of the High Council. What we call a colloquial case-holding in drawers, has it been since the beginning of the reform, so to speak, can you at least give an abstract one piece of information on how many such items are literally held in drawers, and what I think is euphemism, not just for the unconscious work of judges, but for some serious violations of legal norms? How many such cases have occurred and whether they have become obsolete in some cases of prosecution, or whether they have been removed from the drawers and have received a judicial epilogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48207	Nata Mesarovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48208	I can tell you that the number of cases in Serbia is huge. I can tell you that the holders of judicial functions at the time I tried in the Special Court, the largest in Serbia, sent control to that court through the Supreme Court's competent board to control what the Serbian public could control, both general and professional. But they didn't control cases like that. You have such a case in Sremska Mitrovica, where many cases have been locked in the office of the President of the Court of Commerce. There's that in Belgrade, too. I heard the other day from the President of the Supreme Court that cases of criminal matter were found in large numbers, that they were standing somewhere. I say to them: do you think we can judge organized crime successfully without being able to determine which judge, who is the reference officer, who took these cases somewhere else? We also had a case of judges who had not been elected and had not passed the general choice, which the day after the decision was made, over 30 cases of living criminal records were filed. According to these judges, a disciplinary procedure can be initiated, but if it has already been 11 months, and the law contains a provision – one year from the day of the work, we will not be able to end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48209	MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Mr. President of the Supreme Cassation Court, you've just given me the creamworth practically for the individual case that happened. You have now mentioned disciplinary responsibility and mentioned the case of Sremska Mitrovica. From your earlier reaction, when Velimir Ilic, the president of New Serbia, spoke about his case in Novi Sad, we lost our response. I am now specifically asking the question – will you, when you are having talks with the judges, whether elected or not, as announced, not mentioning the name of a particular judge, because he does not deserve to be mentioned by his name, and not because of parties that are likely to have communication with these judges, more to them and out of courtesy. I'll explain to you the situation of a lawsuit for immaterial damage of nearly ten million dinars, which took place at the First Basic Court in Novi Sad. So Velimir Ilic received a judicial verdict, and in this he never received a lawsuit, the possibility of responding to the suit, not getting a first degree verdict, the possibility of complaining. For the first time, he found out about his verdict in the executive procedure, when she came to the execution and was first in the executive procedure, because we found out about the files, lawyers, of course, to mention his address there. Now I'm asking you -- is it normal, were you a judge, a good judge, is it normal for a judge to rule on almost ten million dinars, without thinking whether the man who was sued, if he got the lawsuit, would you answer that complaint? Would you appeal to the verdict? In addition, this is the case from 2005. For three and a half years, the execution is pending and the execution is handed over when this government is formed. Basically, from all of this, we have material evidence, we can attach to the Supreme Court's advice to have all of this, of course, a request for a repeat procedure, but a year and a half is still being decided, but a correspondence is being made between the executive department, the court, etc., that I do not go into it. Is it possible that such a judge, thank God, is no longer in the case or has progressed, so he was elected Supreme Court, still a judge? It's something that's unrecorded. If I were a judge, would it be possible for me to judge my absence, I wouldn't, but I would insist that I invite the parties to come and see what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48211	Mrs. Mesarovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48212	You know what, to talk about a specific case I can't. I know that the number of complaints has been reduced because, in large numbers, the High Council of the judiciary and the Supreme Court of Cassation deal with each individual complaint. I don't remember getting such a complaint because I mostly look at complaints like that and I get to know them. I don't know what procedural options are, whether this party had a power of attorney who was authorized to receive, I wouldn't go into those details, but all the time this general election procedure, the High Council of the Judiciary was accused of using data, I don't know these, those services and the police, the BIA and I don't know who not. We have not used, we have used such knowledge that we have received from complaints individually and in courts, and from the president of the courts and from the Committee of Justice, from the Assembly and from some other things, so I am quite certain that we will take a transcript of this session, ask for that number, and I ask you to write it for me. I don't see any reason anyone would have to be excluded from something he does or has to be disciplined, if that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48213	Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48214	Of course, this is one concrete answer. You'll get everything you asked for with this transcript. This is not only about Velimir Ilic, but also about many other citizens who do not have the opportunity to do what they want in such a direct performance. I will say one more thing at the end of my presentation, since it is mentioned that many candidates will come, elected or unselected, I will remind you, here are practically three members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, that New Serbia, when we discussed the law, that you indicated that it should be done in law, proposed that each candidate be heard in the elections, or come live, for them to be seen. They can show the same professional service. We have come to what is practically what you now admit, that the failure and disapproval of this amendment has been done. One more thing, I think this session of parliament was to be attended, and I'm sorry he wasn't invited, the President of the Constitutional Court. Here we have some dilemmas as to whether the constitutional appeal is the one that needs to resolve the fate of the judges or not. I think she should have called, and she certainly shouldn't have practically called the Prime Minister here because there's no reason. I think you expected, or it was not a constitutional complaint, it was not a problem, until the European Commission said there were a lot of failures and that practically constitutional complaints were supposed to be typical explanations of all solutions for judges unworthy, unprofessional, etc. When we said that individual solutions must be obtained for each judge, then the debate on whether to go to a constitutional appeal or to be considered an objection, the Constitutional Court will relieve some of the problems. I think that's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48215	Time. National MP Milica Radovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry to have a little time. I have to tell you right away that by making a direct transfer decision, you're violating the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure predicts the situation that this session must be transferred in direct transmission, but since I no longer have time, I will not be at it. The European Commission's report on the state of justice in Serbia states that there is serious concern about the way the overall reform has been implemented, and particularly regarding the re-election of judges, or prosecutors. In addition to not knowing why the High Council of the Court decided on the choice of judges because it is evident that the decision on the established criteria and criteria for the selection of not only judges, but also the president of the courts, was not applied, in addition to the fact that the judges were not heard in this procedure, they did not receive an explanation of their decisions or a lesson on the legal remedy. I know what you're going to say and answer this, but it's listed in the European Commission's report, and I believe that you will respond differently when it is very actively involved in this process. What arbitrary decision we have here is best confirmed by the fact that there has been no ranking among the judges themselves. According to those few judges who had the opportunity to gain insight into their personal files, the data contained in their personal files was completely different, not to say falsified, compared to the data they officially received through their courts. The result of such treatment and such work is that today we have more than 800 complaints before the Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court itself does not have the capacity to cope with such an inflow or to resolve them. Obviously, there was no debate on candidates in the work of the High Council of the Judiciary. That's what the papers from the High Council of the Judiciary, which I had the opportunity to see for myself, and I had the opportunity to make an insight into them, although the work of the High Council of the Judiciary is completely illegal and unconstitutionally declared secret. The processing of applications and the re-election process of judges was carried out within an inappropriately short period of time. I can say that approximately, if we had 5,020 applications and 400 hours of work, each judge was approximately devoted for five minutes, but the first basic court is a convincing recordr on this issue because here at the 21st session of the High Council of the Court of Justice 813 applications were considered for only six and a half hours, so each candidate was devoted 20 seconds. I have two papers next to me. One document is the minutes of the 21st session of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and another document containing a list of all elected judges for the First Basic Court. Starting with basic legal logic, it would mean that these two lists match, but unfortunately, these two lists show... (President: Time. Here you go, Madam Minister. Let me just finish my sentence. (President: Finish the sentence. ) So, I'm interested, since the question has been asked, I haven't yet come to that – how is it possible that the persons on this, at the minutes of the 21st session of the Supreme Council, who met all the criteria (President: Please speak for a minute longer. I conclude, how is it possible that candidates who have met the conditions for a judge on this record are not in the completed list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48217	Here you go, Mrs. Mesarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48218	I have to answer a few more questions, but first, to start with this last one, how is it possible that there are no lists different? You don't think we've been taking people down and adding out of session from the High Council of the Judiciary. You've simply expressed your suspicions which are incorrect and false, but you know how, until the end, if you have two candidates, and you don't have room, then you choose one that's better than them. It wasn't a list, don't get all flimsy with me, let me answer you politely, so you don't think anyone's off the street here or there. If you have two of the same candidates, and you don't have room, then of course you'll define yourself as one who's better. We had a situation in Užička Požega, in the basic court and the situation in Pogorevec, in the Court of Commerce, where everyone applied for only one court, and there were 32 judges and 30 seats. In the end, someone had to drop out if he hadn't applied elsewhere. It's not true that all the records are the same, it's not true that they didn't talk, and it's not true that those sessions were not public. Anyone could see for themselves what we were doing on the website, asking to be provided with the agenda and the records from those sessions. None of the interested asked for it at the time of the proceedings, but only after the election decision was announced. We have not made a decision on the non-election, it is a decision of a declarative nature, a list of people who have not been elected and who have made it easier for them to exercise their right to pay and social security in their court. Every candidate was discussed and all the statistics were verified. One of them was the one that was obtained from the Department of Justice and one of the presidents of the courts. You don't think that I, as a state body, the High Council of the Judiciary, a full collective body, question the statistics provided by the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice gets that from the President of the Court, and then after five years, some statistics that weren't valid appear. Why do you attack statistics? Now let me tell you, statistics are your average of the best and the worst, and that can be nice to hide both the bottom and the top, but we didn't do that. The judges were compared in the same court, if they work in the same council, in the same matter, in the same court, and you can't let a judge, if he has 1,000 cases in work, in civil matter, arrive at all commissions, in various lectures, and the citizens wait three years to get his decision, and with his colleagues in the Council for six months or a year. It is not that, we have calculated the effect of each individual judge in Serbia. So, abolished, done, deadlines and so on. That's true, we compared them at the level of the court where they work. We didn't compare them to the court in Surdulica, but to the First Court, the Court of First Instance. So we didn't compare them to some people who could get to Brussels and Strasbourg and the courts there, but to the court where they work and the matter where they work. He is now seeking to prove that statistics prevailed in the decisions of the High Council of the judiciary, and they are not their results, but I don't know whose they are, they're theirs alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48219	Here, you're entitled to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48220	About how much this re-election, I call it, was done correctly, yesterday, Mrs Malovic said the moment she explained that the whole choice of judges would be reconsidered. Of course, I won't hold on to that and I'm still asking questions. It seems that in addition to the three criteria that were supposed to be appreciated here when it comes to the choice of judges, an unofficial criterion was found, which was never to be found, which is a marriage relationship between a judge and a lawyer. I personally know a lot of judges, primarily from Belgrade, not only in other courts, but also in the Chamber of Commerce and the former Supreme Court, where judges who are high-quality, safe and whose results are more than satisfactory, have not been re-elected or re-elected, only because of a simple fact that their husband is a lawyer. I am also familiar with the list of the Bar Association in the last quarter of 2009, a number of lawyers from Belgrade asked for a release from the Bar of Lawyers, only because their wives applied for judges in this election, but after that, as soon as the final list of elected judges was published, they again requested registration in the Bar of Lawyers. To tell the truth, you can simply implement the introduction to the official Informator of the Bar Association. Thus, the re-election was made and how much seriousness and security, or as far as it was shown, best shows that among the re-elected judges, a judge who died, that at the same time one judge was located at the judge's place, means, elected judge and deputy prosecutor, i.e. two judges from municipal courts were elected to two different places at the same time. As a member of the Justice Committee, I have to ask you how is it possible that two judges from the municipal judges, who were previously proposed for resolution, were elected without that fact being respected?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48221	Here you go, Mrs. Mesarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48222	I'm going to answer all your questions. It's simply not the exact fact that marital status was a criterion. There is no reason to hide this, as the decision on the criteria for selecting judges, for the election of those elected for the first time in the judicial office, was announced before the election was made after the Constitutional Court's decision of 9 July 2009. Something else was a criterion, if there was any possibility or doubt which was supported or questioned on the basis of the facts during the proceedings, that there was a link between the spouses of the judge and the lawyer, that this relationship was used for other purposes, in solving cases, in directing the case of a particular judge, in affecting judges when taking their stand and the High Council of the Judiciary made several such decisions and wrote. What you're saying is that there were rumors in the bar, so people were writing themselves out of the Chamber to get their wives elected, I can tell you that I can't answer the rumors, because you know, when the gossip starts, no one will stop him. I know for a fact that in Belgrade, in the Supreme Court, there are several judges that I know their spouses have maintained their status. If you ask me about the Supreme Court, there was one case where it was a criterion and it was a procedure, not a criterion of husband – woman, but a criterion of influence and this procedure is before the Constitutional Court of Serbia and I would really like to know what the outcome will be. Sometimes you get surprised when they say that a colleague, a friend of yours, you know, and his husband, who's a lawyer, has influenced a decision, and it's documented to you by the Bureau's minutes. Then there's nothing you can do, but be surprised and you have to adapt to the criteria. It's the only thing that could have been like a criterion. Of all European countries, the criterion of this relationship between husbands, husbands, wives, lawyers – judges, such a criterion exists in Switzerland, but it is regulated by law. I hope, if Serbia is defined for such a thing, that you will be able to vote here, and everything else is in the domain of speculation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48223	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48224	I don't know if you're aware of that, but this session seems to be the most transparent moment of debate on judicial reform since the adoption of a set of judicial laws. It should actually be the most transparent moment, but it won't be, since he just stopped direct transmission of this session because of some game. So, contrary to Article 215. We're working on a delayed transfer today, and it's about such a serious matter. I would like to ask one question, actually one general question that would cover all other issues concerning this judicial reform. First of all, I would like to ask what was done to prevent the obstruction of this judicial reform by the Justice Department, as well as by the VSS itself? Why would I ask that? Because at first sight, when you look at what has been done over the past year, you see that there are serious problems in implementing this reform, so it is unclear why the public has not cleared up what is going on here, whether it is a general choice or whether it is a re-election. Today, it has been mentioned several times that it is a general choice and it would be good to finally get a clear input on this point that in the adoption of a set of judicial laws, it is taken into account that it is the general choice of judges. That's very important for judicial reform. If it's a general choice, what does that mean? One number was not selected, and one was selected. What did the Ministry and the VSS do to provide these judges, who were elected, to work, or to provide citizens with one functional court, a functional trial, access to justice within a reasonable time and an objective trial? That's why, as far as I know, the rule of disciplinary responsibility of the judge hasn't been adopted yet, and that's a very big problem. Are you adopted? If it is, why isn't that rulebook applied? Obviously, there are serious problems with the trial, or conduct of individual judges, which sends a wrong and bad picture to the public. Therefore, the reform of the judiciary requires public support, the support of society, as well as the work of all institutions directly related to this reform. Therefore, it is really important that you respond, not only on the basis of the call, or the opposition issues, that the LDP proposes to you one thematic session, but you need to engage much more clearly in judicial reform and the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48225	Time! Who wants to answer? Mrs. Malovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48226	It is clear that judicial reform is one complex process in which all social factors need to be activated. He can't reform the judiciary to defend the VSS or the state's major prosecutors, because then it's kind of a natural right to defend your decisions. Neither does the Ministry of Justice, because as justice minister I am a member of the VSS, nor the State's Major Prosecutors in office, but certainly the Ministry of Justice will do everything to take the necessary measures and create conditions so that the courts can function uninterruptedly. To go back to that issue of your obstruction. Of course it's more than clear here that there are major attacks on judicial reform. They may often be justified, because they come from some professional associations, and then it may be considered a way of conducting the procedure, but very often they do not come and are not motivated by these circles, but they come from persons who have just been hit by the results of the judicial reform. If I have stated that one of the objectives of the reform has been to step up the fight against organised crime and corruption, I purposely try not to talk to the public anymore, that there is simply no impression that we want to always hide behind the fight against organised crime and corruption, but there are facts that support that the worst attacks have just come from that sphere. I'm glad you asked the question, and let's start with the termological one, and of course the wider one, was this the choice, the re-election, the general choice? So, what's that? I think the issue was solved by the very adoption of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, but it was just kind of nice to get over it, so it was much simpler to blur the public out and call it re-election. No, this was a general choice, and that was a general choice speaks in favour of the fact that in the Serbian judiciary not only the holders of judicial functions changed, but the whole organisation changed. To remind the public, whenever this was transferred, there were municipal and district courts and Supreme Courts in Serbia by January 1st, and since January 1st, we have had basic courts and more courts as first-degrees, then the Court of Appeal as second-degree, administrative court that emerged from the former part of the Supreme Court and, of course, the Supreme Cassation Court. You just couldn't do one judge, who was, for example, a judge. the judge of the municipal court, to transfer to the primary or higher court, than you had to assess his previous results of the work and facts which spoke and about the skills, expertise and dignity and, accordingly, determine whether he should be found in the basic, higher or appeals court. Once again, I would like to point out that this was not a re-election process, but a general election procedure, as the organisation and jurisdiction of the courts have changed in Serbia. To have a transparent and objective trial is not enough, of course, to make a general choice. It is a prerequisite for further implementation of the reform, but it is also necessary to pass adequate laws. That's what I've been talking about today, procedural laws, material laws and, of course, enforcement laws. Some of them adopted this respectable home. Some of them we intend to propose in the next period. These are all things that can lead to the preconditions that we have objective and fair trials, fair trials within a reasonable period of time, and thus bring about a better picture of the Serbian judiciary in the eyes of our citizens. As minister of justice, I will advocate it, as a citizen of Serbia, I sought it. I will do everything in my power and jurisdiction to do so, and since I know who I'm working with, and within the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, that fact gives me the right to be optimistic that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48227	It's been used for four minutes and 20 seconds. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48228	Thank you for these answers. But I haven't really heard what you intend to do in the future. If you have already identified sources of obstruction, if you have found that there is a major problem, if there is a European Commission report, which exists, if there is an obvious lack of understanding in the public on this judicial reform, what do you intend to do in a shorter period, say, next year? What do you intend to do at an extended time interval? Do you think you can take advantage of all the institutional opportunities you're given? Do you think you're working with the Justice Committee at parliament? Do you think you're looking for a stronger support in society, in public regarding this judicial reform? So it is very important that if problems are already identified, there are ways in which these problems can be solved. That is why it is very important that all together, not only the judiciary, which, if it is left to itself, can simply give up and not end this reform, but also the executive power, as well as the legislative authority to include all its resources that are desirable, definitely, that this reform be implemented to the end, because this reform is not only about the judiciary, it concerns the survival of this state and this society at all. So my particular question is – what do you intend to do in the future?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48229	Minister of Justice Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48230	It's everything you've stated, of course, that we're in the realm of thought, of course we expect one broad support from the public and this home. And so far, we have had active cooperation with the Justice Committee and with certain members of the Justice Committee. You know that we were very open when the law was presented in parliament and we were very careful to consider all the amendments that you have submitted. Accordingly, these amendments have often been accepted by the Ministry of Justice. However, if I do not continue to generalise things to answer you very specifically, means, in the next very close period, I hope that this will be possible even next week, the Ministry of Justice will propose to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to amend the law, meaning judicial laws, primarily the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the Law on Judges, where we will try to respond adequately to the open questions raised by the European Commission, but also a certain part of the professional public. First of all, as regards the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary was and had to make a decision to suspend the proceedings, in fact to annul the proceedings for the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and to make an even greater commitment to act faster. The first changes will concern how conditions will be obtained for the candidate for the High Council of Justice, whether it will be supported by 10 judges, 25 or 30 still agree with the European Commission, I expect that these days their expert will come, and these texts of the law will be found before the expert of the Venice Commission, so that we will have, in some way, two opinions that will be given in that working version of the law. The second amendment to the law will concern those who receive the highest number of votes during the election process as well as the proposed parliament to elect a member of the VSS. The other kind of change will be about reviewing decisions. As I said today, the VSS and I as its member are absolutely sure of the decisions we've made and I don't have a problem with having those decisions checked again, and my distinguished colleagues, who are judges themselves, have during their working life and have been through the fact that their decisions are being checked at a higher level, so from the conversations we've had, they don't have a problem with that either. With regard to the review, the first amendments will refer to unselected judges. We faced a great ineffectiveness of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which made only one decision in a year. We need to act proactively and take matters into our own hands, act as responsible people, and that our thinking course is going in that the procedures in front of the Constitutional Court are being passed on to the VSS, which I am sure will be able, in a much shorter period, to respond to these challenges. The second type of review refers to the first time chosen, whose work is otherwise reviewed each year. It is in the laws and, of course, that the obligation under the law will be implemented. The third is a review of the chosen. I have repeatedly pointed out that if there are doubts about professionalism, dignity or the training of people elected to Serbia's judicial system, this should be pointed out by the VSS. You just heard that a rule on disciplinary responsibility has been adopted, which includes procedure. The selection of members of the disciplinary bodies is under way. Wherever there is doubt about the expertise, dignity or competence of the elected judges, it will be able to be checked through a legally established procedure. Like I said, I'm sure of all the decisions we've made and we don't have a problem checking them one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48231	It's been used for four minutes and 35 seconds of time. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, followed by Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48232	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister and Madam President of the Cassation Court, in any case, that judicial reform was necessary. For years, I have assured many in the ministry and other institutions, and I have convinced myself from 10 years ago that there has been a lot of politicization in the judiciary. The politicisation looked at the fact that I was accidentally at the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia at the time and that I had faced the choice of judges to have one representative of a political party come with a memorandum of the political party demanding that their candidates should come on the list of elected judges. Of course, I was most energetic about it, and I disagreed. In the election process, there are many gaps in quality. You see in England how judges are elected in France. Most judges, to be elected, must pass Oxford or Cambridge in England. In France, the best rating candidates from law schools must have to be candidates for judicial functions. A parallel analysis was to be carried out in relation to European countries, so that the public would be familiar with MPs that it was regulated in parallel law, which are even the rights and responsibilities of the justice minister, who is the President of the Supreme Court and the other institutions involved in proposing candidates. I have to say, a lot of things would go away, there wouldn't be this much uncertainty. If VSS had published the reasons why a candidate had not been selected individually, they would not have faced these doubts and there would be no doubt about the activities and actions and work of the VSS. I don't know, but I think it should be published, so let every candidate find himself in front of the public, if a mistake has been made to him. That error should be corrected, therefore, in a certain procedure, before the competent authorities. However, what I must tell you, I've noticed, I have knowledge, let's say a man is elected president of the court or acting judge, and he's had antiquated cases of thousands...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48233	People's MP, you used three minutes of your first time to ask questions if you asked a question. Minister of Justice Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48234	Here, I'll answer the question I realized you were asking, you'll correct me in the second part if I don't get it right. You pointed out that the VSS should publish the reasons to be managed, if we talk about concrete cases, are one of the paradigms and one of the false facts that were so launched in the public and that I colloktically express myself that they were so accepted. Now everything that's true is completely clouded. At this session, the president said on several occasions that the VSS did not only individual solutions to unselected judges, but also provided answers to the Constitutional Court for formulating reasons why someone was not elected to Serbia's judicial system. So, to repeat, I've just been given an individual explanation to the unselected judges, here for some of whom I've been involved in, some of which I've read in today's session, where the VSS and the criteria of expertise, skills, dignity, which have been developed in the Rules of Procedure on Selection, Progress and Resolution of Judges, has brought down every single case. In a specific case, he said how he applied these criteria and it was delivered to unselected judges. So, any unselected judge in Serbia could see reasons why he wasn't chosen. Also, in relation to a number of them, a debate was held before the Constitutional Court, the debate was public, all could participate, in fact, to observe, not to participate, both in public information and in interested parties, or in Serbian citizens. And I have to agree with the discussion of certain MPs who pointed out that it was simply not so interesting. Also, I want to point out to you a fact that has not been noticed, which surprises me, and in some ways I feel wrong, which is how the talks were held with the candidates for the presidents of the courts. Namely, the High Council of the Judiciary held a conversation with every candidate for the President of the Court. Anyone could observe that conversation, both in public information and in interested citizens. However, I know that only one medium was present during one day. It was just the greatest expression of transparency, I prefer to say openness, it's in the spirit of Serbian language, rather than transparency, but it wasn't interested. These amendments to the laws that follow will be perceived and discussed with candidates, in fact with unselected judges. What the Constitutional Court is doing will be done by the High Court of Justice. I must express hope and the expectation that the public of Serbia will be interested, both professional and wider, and that it will be possible to see through this the arguments that the High Council of the judiciary or the State Greater Prosecutors took into account when making their decisions and then see whether or not we have applied those criteria. I've said it several times, and I'm going to say now that I'm absolutely sure of the decisions we've made, and that's what the public of Serbia will be able to see.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48235	Four minutes and five seconds were used from time. National MP Petar Jojic, two minutes, additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48236	I'd only ask one question. How is it possible for all judges in one court to be inadequate and not be elected without the President of the Court being elected and even making progress? In public, it raises a great deal of doubt. That's absolutely not good, or there's one or two judges left in that court. In the second court you have even this situation – that almost everyone else, 30 judges were left, 30 judges remained, all of them, and their results when compared, you will see that those who did not pass the election, were both more professional and capable, more up-to-date, more comprehensive, more efficient and economical. Just one more question, I really have some information about it. The relationship between lawyers and the judiciary, first, is in the legal system in all countries of the world, especially in Europe, but few lawyers are involved in various institutions and various bodies. Secondly, certain law offices are privileged, some of your lawyers are privileged, you may not know it, but you may be being reached by voices. When it comes to setting up a lawyer under official duty and with the police and with the court, conduct one analysis, ask for an answer and you will see which lawyers are just repeating themselves and which appear multiplely and which do not. That's what needs to be removed in the judiciary. Lawyership must have its place in the legal system. I don't know if there's any lawyers at the High Council of Justice? In the election of judges and prosecutors, in England, Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, lawyers are mainly elected as judges and prosecutors. These are people who are professional, who have passed all the institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48237	Two minutes. Thank you. Is there an interest in the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48238	It is not known to me that there is a court in which the President of the Court and one and two judges have been elected. I can't believe it, because if it's a small court, five-six judges, maybe someone's made progress from that court, and the rest of them are one or two in that court, but they're filled with new judges. As for the way they are elected, there is a decision on the criteria that the minister had just said, which have been elaborated in that decision, especially those criteria are different for those who are first elected, for those who are in permanent office, for those who are making progress and criteria for the presidents of the courts. What's often heard in public, it's done as a substitute for thesis, I don't think you do, is a fact, it says – it has excellent work results. Indeed, there was one large part of the judge who had excellent results of work and who were trained to do their job, but they were supposed to meet all three criteria, which means both expertise and dignity and training. If you ask me as president of the High Council of Justice, I must tell you that I am less fortunate if someone is not worthy. He who is not trained and who is not professional can make up for it, the time is before him, so he will learn the work, but he who is an excellent expert, and unworthy, there is a big problem for both the court and the society and the law. Of course I think that law is one very important part and that courts can't work without a lawyer. I don't know, in those favored law offices, maybe I don't judge, so I'm not in a position to see it, but while I was on trial, I made sure I didn't get the same defenders on official duty, and I'm gonna give that direction to the presidents of the courts, because they're setting up defenders on official duty to take care of it. In the High Council of the Judiciary, there is a representative by lawyers and it is simply by law, that there are six judges, a minister of justice by position, a president of the Supreme Cassation Court and a chairman of the Justice Committee, a representative of the judiciary and a representative of the law school. Unfortunately, in the end, we have just come to the conclusion that law schools send their representative and the Assembly chooses him. The lawyer did it a little faster, and the attorney's office helped us a lot, and he had insight into all the materials, he knew every time and who he was discussing earlier, and he could collect data from the bar, which he didn't cover and help us with the work, that those data were comparing... (President: five minutes. ) I must tell you that we have never worked only on the basis of one person's data or knowledge, but as it is said, based on a report of statistics, the President of the courts, etc., but he has never been a member of the High Council of the Judiciary I could decide and to support or propose, so neither has he had the opportunity to say what the lawyer thinks in a particular place about the judges of a particular court.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48239	Thank you. (Petar Jojic, from the place: Please, just on what is... People's MP, you can't get the word. Please read the Rules of Procedure of this session. The MP is entitled to three minutes, a representative who has been called five, an MP for two minutes and a representative for five. He has no right to replication and no right to harm the Rules of Procedure. (Petar Jojic, from the place: There is one unexplained thing left. ) National MP, I have no doubt that the rest is unclear, but I ask you to look at the provisions of the Rules of Procedure by which we have been gathered to work since 15.00 hours until we are finished. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48240	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, Mrs Mesarovic, I have an obligation as one of the participants of civil protests during the 1990s and 2000s to ask a few questions concerning the period, so I am really interested, and probably also in the citizens of Serbia, to get an answer – as far as it came with an investigation into the case of Judge Simeunović? I also want to get an answer as a member of the DS and as a member of the Resistance, what was really going on and will we get answers about the political background and protest of the Special Operations Unit and will we ever really get all the knowledge of this event that was the prelude to the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and will we have reports, will we ever open an investigation into this country about this very significant event that preceded the murder of Zoran Djindjic? Also, I would like to get an answer, although in one part you have answered that question, will discipline be conducted against the people who have led to the obsolescence of certain court proceedings, and here I am referring to the court case against Marko Milosevic? In the end, I have a question that interests all the citizens of this country, given that we are often accused here of various things with which DS has no touch points, but we are the party that passed the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by crime, to tell us the value of the assets so far taken away, to tell us how much money has gone into the state budget and to present that knowledge to the citizens of Serbia. As a People's MP, I congratulate you on that because you are the bearers of the fight against organised crime and bearers of all the risks that this fight entails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48241	Minister of Justice Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48242	I thank you for asking, and if in this first part I fail to answer, I will gladly do so in the follow-up of the discussion. The law of confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. I think it's one of the most important things the Department of Justice has proposed, and this honored home has adopted. To remind Serbia's public that the law was passed in October 2008. I've had the pleasure of defending him from this honored home. I'll share my thinking with you, at the moment we passed the law I really thought that Serbia was aware that such a law can be passed and that there is a consensus here between the various social factors to go more decisively in the fight against organised crime and corruption. I came from the fact that it's not something that represents the act of one political party or government or any other, but that we all want our children in this country to live together and have some kind of orderly system. However, I now see that I was not thinking in the right direction because the steps we took in terms of judicial reform at the very beginning and after the general elections were said that there are still strong factors in society, to help some of the decision makers, to stop everything in Serbia and not apply such a law, not to end judicial reform because it will affect that Serbia will not be unprotected. Unfortunately, we will fight it, this government has the strength to deal with it, the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors I am fully convinced that it will be on that path. The application of the law on the confiscation of property resulting from a criminal offence has yielded its results. The law began to apply since March last year and in less than two years we have assets seized worth about 300m euros, according to an estimate of financial experts. So far it's been taken away, this is the data that was done in September, so at this point this property is bigger, when this report was made, about 50 houses, apartments, entire residential buildings, whose total area is larger than 7,000 square meters. It's mostly a temporary seized property, and some of them have been permanently taken away from property, which the public has been informed of in good time. People subject to a financial investigation have been deprived of more than 20 plots in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Leskovac, Serbia and Chatini. At the same time, six facilities and places of business were temporarily seized, as well as hotels "Putnik", "Vojvodina", restaurant "Secuan", "Lipa", "Dunavska oasis", two-thirds of the trade union resort in Rovinj, while the actions in the company "Palic", under the control of the state are also the hotels "Patria" and "President" in Subotica, as well as the restaurant in Chantavir. In the possession of the Trusted Property Management Directorate, the NBS ended up with 1,780,534 dinars, as well as 726,234 euros. Most of the foreign currency confiscation comes from Dragan Labudovic, who has been named in the indictment as a member of Darka Saric's group, who was taken from 544,000 euros, then to other members of the Darka Saric family of 110,000 euros. More than 90 cars have been seized so far, 72 of which stem from the so-called SMS mafia, while the other 18, mostly the most expensive jeeps and limos, have been taken from other large criminal groups, some of them are members of the Darka Saric group as well. Those cars that were in driving condition, some of them were not, were given to courts for use, then a unit for financial investigations and the MUP, as well as other state bodies. As far as housing facilities are concerned, only part of them are formally owned by the Detained Property Management Directorate because they live in them by family members, until the court decides that their property will be permanently taken away from them. Some properties were given to state authorities, such as the house of Dark Erceg, which was given to the Municipality of Starship for use.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48243	Five minutes. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48244	I apologize for asking a question that required a more extensive answer in the second part, so I will take the opportunity to ask in this additional question and ask for answers to the question of what about the case of Judge Nebojsa Simenovic, and will there also be an investigation into the political background of the Special Operations Unit and will we have any new knowledge there?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48245	Minister of Justice Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48246	When I get such a question, I always face the challenge of answering as a Serbian citizen or as a minister of justice. Of course, as justice minister, I am limited, since the office of justice minister is to ensure the smooth work of the courts, but also to stop at it. I will tell you as a citizen of Serbia, but not to violate a function I am obliged to respect and that I want to respect. I deeply hope that all of these items that you have cited will see the light of the day or the light of the courtroom, and if we are talking about the event involving Judge Simeunović, and if we are talking about the rebellion of JSO or the political background of the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, or if we are talking about the murder of journalist Slavko Curuvija or the murder of journalist Dade Vujasinović. For me, the very encouraging signals that come from the prosecution, which are very clearly said, will do everything within the prosecution's jurisdiction to move these cases from the dead, to present to Serbian citizens the truth about the circumstances or the cases that have happened, but as minister of justice I will tell you that everything within my jurisdiction or power is available, that I will be very happy to use these cases to come out in daylight or at least to find them in court procedure. The D.A. did make that announcement. It's up to me to encourage them to continue in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48247	A minute and 50 seconds of time of five minutes was used. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Minister, the Honorable President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the Honorable Chairman, the respected citizens of Serbia, the question I would like to ask certainly concerns the transparency that we are constantly promoting on every reform we are carrying out. I'd like to hear, I'm impressed with the data you've given exactly, and certainly the citizens of Serbia have been very happy to hear about the seized property in the implementation of the law on the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts. The question is concrete -- how much does the citizens of Serbia cost to reform the judiciary, all these costs along with these salaries? It is not a small number of people, and these are not small salaries, knowing the state of Serbia now, knowing that it is difficult for Serbian citizens to live and knowing that a judicial strike has recently lasted, that those accompanying services and judicial officers are extremely miserable paid, knowing that they pay the jurors, experts, or compensations to jurors, experts and judges and lawyers under official duty are significantly late. So how much will this reform actually cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? That's my first and concrete question. It was about savings. We know that judges now travel from place to place, that there are additional travel costs, that there is separate life, that there is some hotel accommodation, that there are additional burdens financially, and I can tell you that judges are additionally burdened, especially the judges of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad who have enormously large numbers of cases, which are very difficult to achieve because of the quantity to achieve quality in work. That's their opinion, knowing that, say, the Court of Appeal in Nis has a significantly smaller number of cases. It is about this balance of burden on the judges, because it is important for the judge to pass a good judgment. It's been taken care of before. I'm saying I'm familiar with the fact that the judges of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad have an enormously large number of cases and that they can hardly work very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48249	The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48250	I really thank you for this question, because it is the same paradigm that is in public and that is very often repeated that the judiciary in Serbia is costing, which I would disagree with, because it cannot cost. It's something that has to exist. As I said, it is repeated that judicial reform has contributed to the fact that Serbian citizens stand out more for the judiciary than before. I just have to tell you that it's not true, and you know it best since you adopt the Budget Law every year. The Budget Law contains a division relating to the courts themselves. Because of the citizens of Serbia, I know you know this, but in order for Serbian citizens to understand, Serbia's judiciary is financed in two ways, both from the budget and from the court fees. Of the court cabs, 60% are returning to the judiciary. The percentage is that 13 billion comes from the budget, and somewhere around six billion come from court fees. What I've said today, and I've said before, is that the judiciary budget has been reduced in previous years. On this occasion, I repeat that the judiciary budget has not been increased in years of reform, which may have been done, but rather reduced. From 2008 to today, the judiciary budget has been reduced by around 15%. I know that you may ask me since the budget rebalance was recently here at the adoption, why is one part put at the disposal of the justice ministry and the judicial authorities, and why are certain debts created in Serbia's courts? I have a very specific answer to that question. Like I said, the judiciary is funded from court taxis and budgets. Court fees are planned. The daily fee from the court taxis last year was about 25 million. Last year, court fees were raised by 50%. Today, with 50% of the daily payment of court fees is between 21 million and 22 million, sometimes less. These debts were due to court fees, and we couldn't plan them any other way, because last year's charge was like that. Apparently, the economic activity at one point stopped and the charge of the court taxis was not adequate. One number of employees, not only judges, but one number of employees this year was reduced. However, this does not mean that it will remain on the programme. The moment we went to a certain reorganisation of staff within the courts, we said that there was inadequate representation of the profession within the court, so that one number would be employed, but that number would refer to professional associates, notaries, computer workers, as we announced, and within the courts we conducted that there was computerization within the courts. When you get the Budget Act next year you will see one increase compared to the previous year's salary budget. This increase will go to those who are employed in courts and other professional structures than before. Let me give a concrete answer to your question. The reform of the judiciary did not cost Serbian citizens additionally, and the increase we gave to employees after the strike that took place in the second half of this year went from the judiciary budget. No additional funds were provided for that purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48251	It's been used for four minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48252	You've asked the question of the Court of Appeal's overload in Novi Sad. I am now responsible for telling you that it is not overloaded, but that it works well and all the appeals courts in Serbia are doing well. The Court of Appeal in Novi Sad is doing its best. I hope that I will not be criticised by my Belgrade colleagues who are constantly saying that I prefer the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad rather than Belgrade. True, they have struggled with their work to be the best and the courts in Vojvodina function better than other courts. Have they better prepared themselves for this reform of the judiciary and have their presidents and all those involved in the resettlement process taken this more seriously? They probably are.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48253	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48254	A number of judges have been appointed for the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad and will elect a new VSS composition. If you want to compare to the Nis appeal, I must tell you, no one finds the offended, the quality of the frame...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48255	I'm asking you to finish, since the time has been used for the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48256	... The Court of Appeal in Novi Sad was better and it was easier to fill that court than to appeal in Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48257	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Two minutes, questioning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48258	Thank you for the explanation I can accept. Especially as a duchess, what you said about the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad is that I did contact some judges and I have no doubt about their expertise. On the contrary, I respect it very much. They just really complained about the number of cases and didn't want to work unquality. Certainly one big plus for them and for the reforms being implemented, but these are the people who would really do their job consistently at any moment, knowing the key. However, Mrs. Minister said one thing about the payment of court fees not going as planned, as planned, and that is certainly something that exists at the moment of the crisis, but there is something else. The court fee is charged according to the completion of the procedure and that means that the proceedings are not completed properly, and by the way, they are charged with acquittals, so that it is one problem that may not be properly seen or spoken in the right way. In any case, we have to say or realize that one additional burden is certainly these salaries given illegally to judges who are not re-elected. We said it wasn't a small number and it wasn't a small amount of pay. We didn't see it in the budget the way we planned in the budget, and yet it was realised by the Deputy Prime Minister, and the rest were not paid, so there remained huge debts to the jurors, according to the experts, according to the lawyers on official duty. That's what I was talking about. Can we just have a brief further explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48259	Minister of Justice Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48260	You're right about the charges of court taxis. However, you can't because of international standards, and that would be fair if I disregard international standards so as not to give someone access to the court due to unpaid fees. When I talk about the charge of court fees, which by law should be done at the time when the lawsuit was filed or before the proceedings are initiated, I am primarily referring to the proceedings taken in front of business courts, because the maximum amount of court fees is from that area. Of course, and the fact is there wasn't enough control over the charge of the court taxis, if we're talking about those completed cases before the case was archived. I recently signed certain letters aimed at courts because it proved to be for example. In the Court of First Instance, there is a threat to the limitation of taxi charges, so that the checks on completed cases will be carried out, whether fees are charged in all these cases. It's very important here, let me spread the answer a little bit, I hope you don't mind introducing this program for automatic object management so-called. The AVP programme, which just provides an opportunity to see if a tax has been charged in certain cases. According to our data, since this AVP programme was first introduced into commercial courts, once commercial courts, then the payment of court fees increased by 60%. The programme is now being introduced into all courts in Serbia. I hope that even during this week, the president and I will have the pleasure of presenting to the public the introduction of this programme. I forgot what the second question was. About the jurors. Yes, I'm sorry. Yes, large debts are to both the witches and the jurors. That's where I agree with you. It's exactly the divisions that exist in the judiciary budget. We'll try to keep those debts covered over the next few years. That is why, in these amendments to the laws that will soon be in front of you, the administration of the judicial budget will be delayed by six months, so that it can be transferred to the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors, because it is unacceptable for me as Minister of Justice to pass on the judicial budget to the judiciary with debts. We will try to fully cover these debts and hand over the zero judicial budget to the judiciary. As far as payoffs to unselected judges are concerned, they are re-paid from division. No additional resources have been requested for the judiciary to this end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48261	MP Sreto Peric. No, I'm sorry, Milica Radovic is right. Here you go, Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48262	Madam Minister, after your announcement yesterday that you will re-examine the entire selection procedure of the judges, I don't know what to think of you. I don't know what to say without being moderate and moving within the limits of decency. First you made a mess in the judiciary. You've made a re-election. You have re-election without any criteria. You've made it impossible for the judges to make a statement about the evidence they're charging them with. You've made it impossible for them to submit evidence that's in their best interest. In fact, the judges in this re-election had a status far worse than the most radical criminals. Later, at secret meetings of the High Council of the Judiciary, you made decisions about them without in fact informing them accordingly. You have recently begun to write the notices of the contested decisions and to deliver them, and I will remind you that of the 870 reasoned decisions that were to be found before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, there are today about 560, if the information of the Constitutional Court is correct, and it is Friday. Obviously, what's most important here is to deliver explanations to the system and the principle of negative selection. Probably for the reason that at the beginning, if a debate were opened before the Constitutional Court, they would not experience a debacle. Now you've remembered to talk to permanent judges. Why didn't you talk to me when it was time and when we at the DSS warned you about it? Now, whether because of ignorance or because of any other criteria, yesterday you announced a reform of the failed reform, which by who knows which way you are questioning the continuity of the judge's function. Of course, that's where you don't stop. You say complaints to the Constitutional Court of Serbia will now be treated as objections to decisions, which will be discussed by the High Judicial Council. Is it possible that one body that decides primarily, which has made decisions, which is the High Council of the Court in the first degree, in the first degree, decides again, but this time in the second degree? I would understand if you were a veterinarian or a geographer and you were saying something like this, but it's about a man who's designing Serbia's justice system. There is simply no luxury for such statements. Now I ask you honestly, without any irony, do you think such decisions will go in the direction of strengthening the judicial authority and will they regain confidence in the judicial system itself?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48263	Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48264	I thank you for this question. I will not continue in the offensive tone that you used when asking questions to me. I will answer you accordingly to my education and the function that I am in, that the Ministry of Justice has done all that it has done so far, has taken steps to ensure the effective conduct of the judicial authorities, in order to step up the fight against organised crime and corruption, to protect investment in Serbia. Our main objectives were to establish a transparent, objective, independent judiciary in Serbia and we will do so in the future. If there are open issues of error or anything else, we don't have a problem admitting them, persuasing them, analysing them and suggesting it, we continue to defend and continue to work in that direction and we won't give up on it. As far as your question is concerned, is it normal, as you put it, that one organ decides in the second degree? Since you're a lawyer, I believe you're going to check out these statements of mine, that they're comparative legal experiences. You will also have the opportunity to answer me, for the next few days will be found in front of this honored home and the amendments to that law. A comparative legal experience suggests that the decisions of the High Council of the judiciary, in countries where it exists, have the right to object and that this objection can be made to the Supreme Council of the judiciary itself, were also pointed out by representatives of international organisations, representatives of the European Commission, or the Administrative Court. That's possible. It exists and we analyzed that experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48265	You have two minutes left, Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48266	Thank you for answering the question I didn't ask. In this second part, in particular, I can only say why you didn't warn the judges in time that they had the right to object, but they had to themselves, to use a colloquial word, to bend in various ways to get to the Constitutional Court itself. In yesterday's announcement you mentioned that the High Council of the Judiciary will be in constant council very soon elected. I wonder why he wasn't elected by the end of June 2010, when it was a deadline for selecting the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary? I'm not asking you this just because the High Council of the Judicial Code has been violated, but I'm asking you primarily because the High Council of the Judiciary in this first composition has made huge mistakes at key moments and thus endangered the very reform of the judiciary. I'll tell you what's going on. First of all, the whole re-election was made in incomplete composition. You know that the High Council of the Judiciary was not allowed, could not be established, until all its election members were eventually elected. The High Council of the judiciary can also propose to make the choice of candidates only in full composition. The work of the High Council of the judiciary, under the Law of the High Council of the judiciary and by the Constitution itself, must be public. This is where you used your right under the Rules of Procedure to determine that the work of the High Council of Justice itself was declared secret. This is about a concrete violation of the law. I'm just going to name one more. That's your quote, so I don't make a mistake, I'll read - The High Council of the Judiciary was not in mind, because parenting may be a problem, because conflict of interest in us is still a new phenomenon that hasn't been investigated enough. I'll remind you that you gave this as an answer to the question of the press why it is and how it is possible for a marriage relationship between a lawyer and a judge to be regarded as an issue of choice. So how is it possible for it to be appreciated and on the other hand, how is it possible for a parent relationship between a member of the High Council of the judiciary and a judge who is promoted not to be treated?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48267	Time. Here you go, Mrs. Mesarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48268	I have answered your questions many times through the questions of other MPs. Let me tell you, the High Council of the First Chamber has done nothing, as you say, chaos or major failures, that's what I told you at the beginning. He acted on the basis of the Constitution, the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, the Constitutional Law, the Law on Judges and the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary. As for the incomplete composition of the High Council of Justice, it's important that I personally have no problem. As I see it, you just waved some of the records from the Council of Justice's session, to help you, the Supreme Council of the Judiciary was established on 6 April. It's a collective body, decisions are made by vote, most of them win, what my decision is, or how I voted, maybe different than others, but most importantly, it's that the Constitutional Court, in its decision of 28 May, said that the High Council of the Judiciary was also in complete order, that it is not contrary to the Constitution and that there are some circumstances that may sometimes lead to the High Council of the Judiciary or any other collective body being able to work in incomplete composition. We were filling in this, not us, but the Assembly was selecting members of the High Council of the Elections, so sometimes some remark could be placed on the Assembly, whether it was in time to select those members. I know I've asked for this procedure to be accelerated a few times. Next, it's about proposings, law schools and the Bar Association, because they didn't respond in time and they didn't give their candidates or they used to repeat their candidates. As far as I'm concerned, there's no problem, and that's not a problem, because if the Constitutional Court says it's constitutional, and we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and this country, as well as all other states, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are respected, so there's no reason. I answered all the other questions specifically, and if you tell me if it could be a relationship, I was just explaining to you, between the spouses, it was no bother. It's a choice. We can't limit people from getting to know each other or getting married, but it's a distraction for those relationships where marriage mates are judges and lawyers or prosecutors and lawyers and where one of these parties used it to create a privileged position in court or prosecution proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48269	Thank you. Mrs. Malovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48270	I didn't quite understand what you meant by my quote. But on nepotism here, various arguments have been made several times, especially from your parliamentary group. I'll remind you, for example, which was recently within the Justice Department, which obviously didn't bother you at the time, where one sister was the assistant minister of justice, and the other sister was an elder of the city's criminal judge. You did not make any remarks about nepotism at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48271	National MP Sreto Peric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48272	Mrs Malovic, Mrs Mesarovic, if you leave here with the conviction that a debate like this should have taken place long before the start of the reform, I will be pleased, and if you sincerely and objectively think you will say that this is a bit late now. However, regardless, I do not like to hear that someone is obstructing judicial reform. You did not say that, but one political party helped you in this, the most responsible for reforming the judiciary by nature of things is you, Mrs Malović and you, Mrs Mesarović, because you are simply in such functions. I think most of the failures were made by the High Council of the Judiciary and to be honest and political correctness for the sake of and professionally, no one could choose 2,000 holders of judicial functions without making a personal mistake. You can't put that with any particular remark on the burden. But you've allowed yourself, I think, Mrs. Mesarovic, as chairman of the High Council of the Judiciary, to get a little "initiate" with those who haven't been elected. This intimacy should certainly be read under quotes. You had to, and you needed it when I didn't choose those, even though I just wanted to put in my concept of Article 146. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Articles 6 and 7. The law implementing this constitution does not match yours, but you are now in a position to make such decisions. I think that the advocacy of the High Council of the Judiciary, and above all objectively yours, as president of that state body, has led Serbian citizens out of their pockets to raise funds to compensate for 850 unselected judges. If you're right and everything's okay, then why did the European Commission say it was wrong? Which is why, later and in the second extended period, you pay for it, rather than simply saying, if you are right, our obligation, the state of Serbia, towards these people has ceased? If, as you were also told during the debate, in the election of judges, the adoption of these judicial laws, you explained why this was not done, or why someone was not elected, there would now be fewer problems. From you, Mrs Mesarovic, I would like to hear if there have been lost cases in reforming the judiciary and establishing a new justice system. Do you have such knowledge? If so, what number of cases is this? It seems to me, we have one problem, and now I certainly won't say the name of a judge who doesn't want to leave the primary court to the judicial unit, but who expect citizens who exercise their rights or are otherwise required to report to the court and respect court decisions, not come. I think the legislator's priority first of all, not any individual at all, was to meet citizens. I hope we will never again, and the citizens of Serbia will never wait for the implementation of judicial decisions over a period of 20, 10 years or another period.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48273	Mrs. Mesarovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48274	That's a nice question, through discussion. I'll answer you. First of all, as far as I'm concerned, if you're thinking of me personally, I haven't been able to tell myself, I'm just the president in office at the High Council of the Judiciary. The High Council of the judiciary has 11 members and decisions are made by the majority. So, it's not a secret, you can look at the records, I've been overvoted multiple times, and as a judge or member of the High Council of the Judiciary, I had the right to set out my own opinion on the obligation to write down individual reasoned solutions for unselected judges. That is why Serbia does not suffer. Serbia suffers because the Constitution and the Constitutional Law have been passed, and at the beginning I said so, to remind you that the Venice Commission has had objections to the proposal for a constitution and the law regarding how the general choice of judges is made. I did not decide that the judge's office is not permanent and that it ceases the judges elected under the 1990 Constitution or the laws they followed. It is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. I did not pass a law that states that the judge's office ceases under the law, a judge's duty on the day of entry into the court's office of newly elected judges. That, gentlemen, is what you did here in this assembly, so if it's going to cost Serbia, it's going to cost for you, not for me. Also, it is not true that the High Council of the Judiciary can be adamant when it comes to introducing a two-degree body into a decision-making process. It is the body of the state established by the Constitution and it is assumed that the president of the highest court in the country respects the law and the Constitution and that you have provided for two-stage decision-making, certainly that Nata Mesarovic would sign any decision and write any solution with reasoned individualised reasons why someone has not been chosen. The fact is that the Venice Commission has made an objection to that Constitution and the Constitutional Law and said, it follows that it was necessary to formally rename or rename judges who are in the judicial office, except for those in whom doubts arise about these criteria that we have spoken of. It then meant those in whom there was a suspicion that the discharge procedure would be conducted on the basis of the relevant act of the applicant authorised to do so. Gentlemen, I have not resolved any judge in Serbia, nor have I re-elected it, they have participated equally with all other candidates in the general election process. So they had the right to apply those who were in a permanent function that was interrupted, and I was interrupted, and the matter was free will whether or not someone would apply or in which case you would apply, choose, choose or choose you, or not choose you, and that's the thing of the criteria that are, and not the process of resolution. If it had been written that the judges were being resolved, we would have done it nicely, determined, conducted the procedure, told them, although the election could have a conversation, they would have told them and they would have been able to make other arguments. This was known to all the judges in Serbia, that it was not a resolution but a general choice in which all the studies were attended at a study function that was interrupted by the Constitutional Court and the Law, so I don't know why Nata Mesarovic should have fit, you don't think I was disturbed by some judge in Surdulica, Sombor, Bor, I don't know where everyone in Serbia was and that I had any particular reasons to solve someone or not. I did not participate in law-making, and as an MP of a certain parliamentary group, I did have other jobs at the time, but why were those who attack the most today's laws involved in law-making. Because they wanted to take up the most judicial functions in Serbia, and that means gentlemen, they thought they were reforming only the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia and introducing the Court of Appeals, where they would be presidents of the courts and do nothing else. That is what the struggle arose in any case when the Constitutional Court said, "Well, now you have the right to appeal, write and reason, we have written to them all." It's obvious they didn't think they'd get an explanation and there's not enough reason, there is. I'm really behind every decision because every member of the High Council of the judiciary I've written has read, signed and returned if I don't think there's enough reason. Therefore, gentlemen, and now if you think that what was called the constitutional appeal will be crossed by agreements in the Constitutional Court appeal, then again with some new agreements in the objection, I really don't mind, but you'll have to do it all through the amendment of the law. At first I said, the High Council of the Judiciary is just an enforcer of the law and makes a choice and there was nothing secret, nor criteria, nor methods of work, nor a closed session. And the trials are public, gentlemen, you know that well, but voting is a secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48275	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48276	Mrs. Mesarovic, if the President of the Assembly hadn't tolerated your time, I'd think you were an MP for the SRS, you're just saying what we've been saying all along. On the other hand, if you were an MP, I think you'd have problems with the chairman because you're always out of time, a little bit of a joke in all of this, I'm happy with what you said because you repeated everything we talked about in 2008, Mrs. Malovic, when you were supposed to bring a little baby into this world, and thank God that's how it is. And now I want to ask you a specific question, and in connection with Article 13 of our Constitution, but as Minister of Justice, not as a citizen of Serbia, because you are certainly part of the government that can implement this decision. The Republic of Serbia protects the rights of its citizens' interests abroad. So, those who accidentally go on a trip to some tours or maybe New Year's Eve, and I feel that there is an even greater obligation to protect the rights of their citizens in The Hague tribunal and where there is no fair trial. Have you ever pointed out in a conversation with the Hague prosecutor during a visit, which we could see more than once that you talked about, and that's okay, did you ever comment on that trial that's neither fair nor reasonable? I think it's your duty as minister of justice and that you shouldn't run away from it and that you had to ask such a question, so I'd like you to give us an answer to that question as well. But as far as Mrs. Mesarovic is concerned, I didn't think you were personally responsible, personally and objectively, but more objectively as the President of the High Council of the judiciary, you will be subject to objective responsibility. I think that the appointment of judges has sometimes been removed, the formal High Council of the Judiciary has made a decision, we're not going to talk about it now, there's no need for you to explain it to us, but at least for one piece if not all the judges in the whole of the bar for one piece have been removed from the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48277	Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48278	The question asked is not the subject of today's session, but I do not want to deny you an answer, I will try to answer you. As both secretary of state and as minister of justice, I am a member of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, you know that you often have contacts with that body and within that body I have tried to make sure that everything that has been set up, to be delivered to the tribunal or to be delivered to lawyers, as far as the documents owned by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are concerned, and to do so in an effective and adequate manner. As a member in both capacity and character, I did not make the difference whether these demands were made by the tribunal or by the defence of those indicted before the court. I will answer specifically, is one of the topics of my talks with the chief prosecutor of The Hague tribunal, Mr Brammertz, who I have not met for a long time, but I remember that at the beginning of the term of office, I met and was the subject of the talks, ineffectiveness in the trial against the accused Vojislav Seselj, and here I pointed out that, as justice minister and as a member of the council, I would do everything to contribute to an effective trial and to the conclusion of the decision in this process. I have to refer to your discussion when asking questions, where you said the decisions were moved outside the High Council of Justice, that's what you said. I don't get it, obviously your insinuation is focused on the fact that it was politically motivated to make decisions, and I want to tell you at this point that it doesn't stand. So if you have evidence or indicators or indications, to bring it down to the lowest level, if we're talking to a criminal-processing dictionary, I'd like to see it. Most of the time, we listen to the flat-rate accusations on the subject, and the fact that political parties had lists, that they influenced, that their wishes were fulfilled. Let's see one particular example, tell me, in that and that court that and that one was chosen, because that one and that one said about him, and then we can talk about whether it was, so we'll see if it was or wasn't. If it means anything to you, I can tell you that this has not occurred in the process of this general election, and in the future, as long as I am a member of the High Council of the judiciary, and I am sure while Mrs Mesarović, the president of that body, is not going to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48279	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48280	I come from Pancheva, and I'm happy, since it's been officially said here that Panchev has better judges, better courts. However, we often meet with various comments from the work of the courts. I'm a lawyer, I'm not on permanent duty in parliament, I'm in practice often with people, who not only comment on their actions, but on judicial reform at all and everything that happened after the general election of judges was made. We are witnesses, and in the last period of November we have received an answer to one parliamentary question, where our distinguished colleague gave himself the right to comment on the work of the two, I mean the judges of the Court of Commerce in Pančev, and that of Zlatibor of Kanački and Nenad Umčević, and on the other hand, after receiving the reply of the Court of Commerce in Pančev and after the check, since I personally convinced myself that the Court of Appeal confirmed the decision of these judges, we can come to the fact that the judges were well-judged and well applied the law. We often have various comments that something is wrong, that something is wrong. Many people are not aware that Article 336 of the Criminal Code has also provided for a criminal liability for the unlawful public commentation of court proceedings where a decision has not yet been made. I want to ask the question, first of all, to the Minister. Since many people have complaints of transparency, openness in the work of courts, you mentioned here the AVP program, the information programme, so I'm interested in how this will help increase the transparency of the work of the court and court decisions? I would later ask some other questions about the possibility of introducing tax marks, but as a second question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48281	Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48282	As I said, one of the aims of reforming the judiciary and the way it was implemented was to change the organisation of work, and will contribute significantly to the implementation of the reform and implementation of the automatic management programme. Such a programme was first introduced into trade courts, now economic courts. Through the experience we had in business courts, we saw in fact all the advantages of this program. To better present to Serbian citizens, which they can, of course, do if they go to an internet presentation of any economic court, then they will see that on the Internet they can make an insight into certain items, what can be found on the Internet and what can be available to everyone. So, you can see the movement of the case, when the lawsuit was filed, when the complaint was given, when the hearing was scheduled, when a certain skill was scheduled, etc. They can simply concentrate, they don't have to waste time going to a particular courtroom to inform themselves of these things, but they can do it on the Internet. This is very important, both for Serbian citizens and for economic operators who have contact with economic courts. It is from this experience that we wanted to spread this programme to all other regular courts, as we say, and at this point I can tell you that all the basic courts, the higher courts, the appeals courts in Serbia are networked. Of course, we are not stopping at it, but by the end of next year we will be networking all judicial units, so that by the end of next year, the entire judiciary in Serbia will be networked. During this week or the next day, to be precise, we will present this programme to the public, so that soon the citizens of Serbia, I will not say in every case, because these items are still being introduced into software, but in most cases they will be able to see this movement and to shorten their time, which is valuable to each of us. So they don't have to go to the courts, they'll be able to do it from their own house. Of course, the program is largely useful for monitoring the work of judges. There is a rule-making process that will determine the standards for measuring the work of judges, but in this way we will simply be able to do analysis through higher indicators. So, unbound whether we're talking about the quality of work or we're talking about the number of confirmed decisions, the time of decision making, etc. The programme will be of great benefit, both to the authorities that monitor the work of the courts, the justice ministry and the High Council of the judiciary and the Supreme Cassation Court, as well as to the citizens of Serbia themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48283	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48284	In 1985, I began to practice law as a lawyer intern. I know, it was before that hyperinflation. I know that the use of tax marks at the time made it easier for both the work and the lawyers and everyone who came into contact with the courts and who had an obligation to pay certain court fees. Since it's a stable dinar again, and I don't think there are any such interferences on that side, and often lawyers and at all parties in the work are obliged to write down copies of the records, or for something like that, for an overture of the contract or for anything else waiting in line in front of banks, to pay court fees. I think that in this way bigger things would be achieved, on the one hand, by all those who are in a situation where fine taxes, i.e. paying court fees would be paid to the state, and on the other hand, the state would be in a position to charge and there would be no forgiveness or waiting for the tax to be paid until the next day, so that a copy of the minutes would be obtained. Surely, judicial reform has many things to overcome in walking. One question is an overture of everything that's been certified in the judicial units. Then, I think in the new Law on Public Records and Following Regulations, they can make that part easier. It is certain that there will be controversy here and on the subject of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law of Executive Procedure, because it is obviously a problem. I would like to ask just one more short question – are there pressures in my work, especially in the process of judicial reform and trying to get in the way of these major mafias, and how does the state resist pressures, especially the judiciary?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48285	Time! Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48286	Are there any pressures? There are. They're often direct, and they're often indirect. The indirect ones are worse. You know you have a hidden enemy somewhere, often when you point that out to someone, it might sound like a conspiracy theory, and that makes the fight harder. There is something else I want to say, thank you for asking, I deeply believe that the state of Serbia can cope with all the trials that are being put on the issue of judicial reform and all those goals that we want to achieve, both efficiency and the fight against crime and the protection of investment. When I said a year and a half ago that no one was stronger than the state, at the moment the Pride Parade was cancelled, my statement might have seemed funny to someone, but here after a year and a few days I think the citizens of Serbia can see for themselves that no one is stronger than the state, and most importantly nobody is above the law. There are no untouchables in Serbia now, there are no protected ones, all of those procedures that have been initiated are just talking in favour of it. All state authorities are working in that direction, and I'm sure that even the holders of judicial functions and beyond can protect them. More importantly, they can protect Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48287	There are two other colleagues left. The word has been given to the esteemed colleague Pavel Marchok, and then to Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48288	Dear Presidents, the Honorable President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the Honorable Minister of Justice, as a member of the DS, I strongly support your effective fight against organised crime and corruption, and I congratulate you on the successful implementation of the outlined objectives of our government and our country. According to some data, the practice of courts in Serbia has shown that 80% of prison sentences below the legal minimum have been imposed before the corruption reform. I'm asking you, what's the situation on this issue today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48289	Thank you. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48290	I appreciate the question. It is a criminal policy and the sentence has always been one of the topics that the Ministry of Justice has initiated and when we talked about the necessity of judicial reform and we have just looked back on that aspect. Of course, there can always be a controversy over the way criminal policies are viewed. We tried to examine and analyze more explicitly, and we did a criminal policy and made certain comparisons, for example. with penalties imposed in 2008 in relation to a freak, for certain crimes, which have been committed during this year, e.g. 2010 Thank you for the opportunity to present it to you. For the crime of murder in Article 113. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, when we make a comparison in 2010, 45% of prison sentences are on the border or below the threatened sentence, while in 2008 it was 59% of cases pronounced, so it can be said that there was a reduction in the percentage of prison sentences imposed at the border or below the threatened sentence, and 14% of cases. In this case we see precisely the effects of judicial reform, although we are talking about the work of the courts although we are talking about the work of the courts directly, although we are talking about the effects of amending the Criminal Code. It is particularly important that during 2010 55% of prison sentences were imposed within the limits prescribed by law, while in 2008 the percentage of prison sentences within the limits of the prescribed laws was only 17% and in this case there was a significant increase in the percentage of prison sentences imposed in prison frameworks by 38%. Of course, we've made all of this in numbers, not just percentages. If we talk, for example. on a crime in Articles 114, which is a serious murder, for which a sentence of at least 10 years or 30 to 40 years has been threatened, e.g. there it can be seen that 54% of prison sentences during 2008, 54% of prison sentences are found at or below the legal minimum. Unlike that period, there are no prison sentences under the legal minimum in 2010, which was the case in 2008. The effects of judicial reform are seen in this case. To move forward, if we talk about unauthorized behaviour and drug trafficking, these are data from the High Court in Belgrade, meaning compared to the Belgrade District Court, comparing the criminal policy which was conducted in 2008 and the criminal policy in 2010, when amendments to the provisions of the Criminal Code occurred, especially in the part of the penalty mitigation limit, it is seen that the implementation of a stricter criminal policy is already visible in 2010, as a percentage of the decisions made, below or at the limit of the legal minimum, with that percentage being 92% in 2008, and in 2010, it is 77%, which is 15% lower. Also, there has been an increase in the number of decisions that have been issued by condemning verdicts, within the framework of a threatened sentence, with the percentage being 8% in 2008, and now the sentence under the threat of punishment is 23%, which is a 15% increase somewhere. Of course, we've been made for a lot of crimes, but what I've also found quite striking, and that's for a case of heavy theft, where no parole was made, unlike the previous cases, when a large number of parole convictions were issued. More specifically, it is a criminal act of robbery, where, for example, the Belgrade District Court said in 9% of the conviction cases, while there was no conditional verdict in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48291	MP Gjuro Muchenski has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48292	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, the Minister of Justice, the President of the Court, I will refer to my colleague Pavel's question, because that is the question that all citizens in this country are asking. You have strong and unequivocal support for us, we have voted and supported all these laws that we want to give you tools to reform the judiciary, because this is the basis for citizens in this country to feel safe, to be sure that their lives are safe, that their capital is safe, that their workplace is safe. That's what we want with a reformed judiciary to win. My question is, and that's what we heard in the principle debate on these laws, that it was precisely this data that was devastating. Now we see that after a certain period of time, which is not great, we realize that it can't be fixed absolutely everything in this short time, but it's still not the percentages and the level that we would all like to see and hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48293	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Mesarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48294	I think that we are on a good track to correct all of this and as regards criminal sanctions and the harmonisation of practices in other matter, civil, executive matter, by introducing appeals courts, which are responsible for higher courts and certain territory, there will be a possibility of equating judicial practice, so it will not distinguish decisions of senior courts from different cities, but the appeals will be able to direct it, not only through the appeal procedure, but also through taking legal views. Finally, it is also the obligation of the Supreme Cassation Court to determine the principles, when courts address each issue. It's not just, you said it well, in law enforcement, but in those who apply it. Indeed, but without any bias, I think we have chosen judges who are able to assess what is the interest of society and the environment in which they live and to contribute to the eradication of crime and to be safe and property and people, and children, and roads and infrastructures, because at the time that we took care of both quality and quantity and dignity, etc., and when we have established and determine now on a broader level, through discussions, and norms, the disciplinary responsibility of the judge is introduced. And the judges are people, and even professional associates, they're open borders, they can travel out of the country. You see how it's done in other countries, you just have a desire to compete. We are conducting the education process, that those who are trainees and professional associates, through the Judicial Academy, those who are students this year we have enrolled a certain number, the education of the found judges is being conducted. Just something we didn't say today, that there are special criteria, that I said, for those we've chosen as judges for three years, but also for them, we've made sure that those who had the best average rating, who were the shortest students, for whom the fellow judges and judges who were mentors gave the best grade and made their rank lists, I kind of dropped it off at the beginning when there were more MPs from different groups. Therefore, those who create this case-law in the Court of Appeals or the Court of Cassation, I think they are fully capable of equating and being the same as all the peoples or of acting in some way as in other legal systems in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-07-0.u48295	Since no one wants to ask a parliamentary question, and the time has elapsed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, before we finish our work, allow me, honourable MPs, to thank, in your name and in my sincere name, Mrs Nati Mesarović, the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Supreme Cassation Court, Mrs Snezani Malović, the Minister of Justice, and the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, who was a significant part of it, and I thank him, as well as all of you who actively participated in the work and us who actively participated in the work. With the work we will continue tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., discussing the details of the current agenda. Thank you.
