ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36788	I thank you for this precedent. I would like to inform the Assembly and you as President of the Assembly that you are under obligation to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. What I want to tell you is that one-third of the MPs have scheduled a Committee on Agriculture to discuss amendments to the game and hunting law today, at 10.00 a.m. today. I want to remind you and the public that when we discussed the law on game and hunting in principle, the law did not receive the necessary support and did not receive the support of the Committee on Agriculture. Thus, the next analogy of the Rules of Procedure, when one law does not go into principle, it cannot be discussed in particular. That is why I would ask you that, whether anyone has or does not have a majority in the Committee on Agriculture, no one can abuse the Rules of Procedure, we cannot work past the Rules of Procedure and that no amendments can be discussed today on the Committee on Agriculture because, to remind you again, the law has not been passed on the board of directors, and that is the Committee on Agriculture, the support of Members of Parliament. Of the ten MPs present for the law then voted five, that was insufficient, the law was not passed by the Committee on Agriculture and I therefore urge you to influence the MPs of the ruling majority, or members of the Committee on Agriculture, not to violate the Rules of Procedure. That's not even in your interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36789	There are no violations of the Rules of Procedure, MPs can discuss amendments, there is nowhere to be said that they can't do that, but in any case, I will check the procedure again. The break is until 11:00. [[After break – 11.05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Dusan Marić, Boris Aleksić, Bajram Šehović, Sladjan Mijaljević, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Mirko Munjić, Dragan Stevanović, Sreto Perić, Marina Ragus, Marina Ragus, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milorad Buh, Milovan Radovanovic, Aleksandar Martinović, Olena Papug, Momir Marić, Dusan Marić, Milan Dimitrijić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Ljubomir Kragović, Momcilo Duvnjak, Branimir Đoković, Ogjan Mihajlović, Ževinović, Radan Ževinović, Radan Žaljan Žović, Radan Žović, Žaljan Žalić, Žaljan Žović, Žović, Žović and Žović. You have received reports from the Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. The MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandar Ilic, by written means, withdrew the amendment to Article 70. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Minister Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36791	Dear fellow MPs, last night I remained obliged to answer several questions that were asked in the debate. I got some answers this morning, so I think it's my duty to tell you. One question was about the question of the Gorans at the Great Plane. The information I received from my colleagues from the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Defence is that the military facility is temporarily assigned to the Ministry of Ecology. There used to be guns, now the government's decision is allowed to hold waste of a special kind in that facility, and all of this will be discussed on the Committee on Environmental Protection. Additional information related to Krnjevo and this area and waste can be obtained from the Committee and from colleagues of the Registrar Minister. As for information related to the preschool institution "Suncreti" in Vladimirci, the report by the Republic Educational Inspector is that the previous director had some irregularities in work and that the current one was elected by five of the nine board members. The third information was related, I think, to Leskovac. I received information from the president of the Leskovec City Assembly that all proposals of the Parents' Council will be placed on the Assembly's agenda and will be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36792	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36793	A colleague of the Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment to Article 1, Mr. Minister, in order to carry out not only the legal-technical order of the law from the very beginning, but also to do so responsibly, as all SRS MPs do, codification according to what the law essentially needs to regulate. In fact, you are in Article 15, in the duties and responsibilities of students and students in the institution, predicting how this is done. However, it was necessary, as you have accepted, because it is, above all, as a lawyer and as an MP of the party who wants to improve the text of the law in every way, but on the other hand, issues are being opened to which you may have or may not have an answer, but you, as a responsible man, will say in the course of the debate that you think, when you know very well that you are limited by budgetary means, and I mean the Ministry of Finance, that this basic member of the law we realize and realize. I live in a university centre, in Kragujevac, where in the past few decades, the renovation of institutions has been done, as Professor Djukanovic-Dejanovic also knows, as a regular professor of the University, and we do not have enough accommodation capacity for all students visiting our university town. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, you have the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, which, on its basis, does not have to have its own budget, except for the granting of scholarships, to use to equip student and student standards, or to participate together with local self-governments in their construction, renovation, and only in 2009 was it spent on specialized services from the Republic of Serbia's budget, the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, 8,450,894,000 dinars and services under contract 226,383,000 dinars. Therefore, the point is that this law will be implemented in practice. Because yesterday, we also talked about co-worker Jocic and the rest of us not having at least one-third of our accommodation facilities in pre-school institutions across Serbia's cities and that only every fifth child in Serbia has the opportunity to stay in kindergarten. So how do we secure student and student standards in cities? I believe that Belgrade has this big problem, as well as Novi Sad and Nis, but I am talking about Kragujevac, where it is indeed with some efforts of local self-government, participation in this and some small shifts that have been for renovation in earlier periods, but that is not enough, because we all need new buildings and new accommodation capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36794	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36795	I thank Ms. Jovanovic for the information, especially on the view that we need investment in the student and student sector, because it is something that this ministry's policy is, but I must tell you that unfortunately we do not have more financial resources in order to be able to invest significantly in the future. We're trying to use existing resources as rationally as possible and move things forward, try to build a building, a facility, a dormitory or a dormitory, or a center. This year we will invest more significantly in building a dormitory in Nis, for the first time in 30 years, believe it or not. Generally, not only in Nis, not only in Kragujevac, not only in Novi Sad, not only in Belgrade, but also in other places, there is a need for greater accommodation capacity, as the number of available is small in relation to the needs of students and students. According to the current state of affairs, we have about 19,000 students, perhaps something more, in dorms and about 10,000 students in dorms. So that's about 30,000. The number of users of student institutions is higher because the law allows students who have a residence where the facility is located to use the services of student facilities. We will try, of course, to make this one major breakthrough, but it is objectively impossible without a better economic situation and more resources. The fact is that with existing means, we absolutely fulfil all obligations towards existing student and student homes. We have sent an official invitation to the Education Committee to visit a student home or a student institution and to ensure the quality of the service provided in those institutions. Because, in our opinion, it absolutely has its value - the diet is carried out according to standards that involve a type of food, calories, etc., and accommodation capacities are also adapted to standards. So, as far as existing objects are concerned, the largest number is and how well-organized and equipped and, of course, we have to invest in those who are not. I would like MPs who are able, members of the Committee but others, to come and see what is happening and how it is arranged. We invested significantly in student and student facilities years ago, but we didn't make any new ones. Like preschools, we have to make new ones. Simply, needs are far greater than housing capacity. Let me now inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Government regarding the amendments, but I, too, as a resolute minister on behalf of the Government to get to know the National Assembly on why we accepted some amendments, or why we didn't. Of course, for these amendments that we have accepted, these are 15 amendments, we think they significantly improve the content of the law. We have accepted the following amendments: Amendment of the People's MP Vjerica Radeta, MPs Lassla Varge, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond, Amendment of the Committee on Education, Amendments of Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milice Vojić-Marković to Article 16, Amendment of the Committee on Education to Article 22, Amendment of Members Lassla Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond to Article 25. Proposal for a Law, amendment of the People's MP Milorad Buha to Article 40, amendment with the amendment of the National MPs Lassla Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond to Article 41, amendment of the Committee on Enlightenment to Article 42, amendment of the Committee on Enlightenment to Article 50, amendment of MP Aleksandr Martinović to Article 67, amendment to the amendment of the People's MPs Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milice Vojić-Marković to Article 80, amendment of the Committee on Education to Article 88, amendment of Parliament Paja Momchilov to Article 95, amendment of the National MP Natasa Jovanovic to Article 95. It's a bill of law. I forgot to say, with my colleague, Verica Radete, the amendment has been accepted as Article 1. Proposal for a law, colleague of Varga, Pastor, Kovac and Fremond on Article 6. Proposal for a law and an Enlightenment Committee on Article 9. Why didn't we accept the other amendments? There are more groups of reasons why we couldn't accept these amendments. One group of amendments could not be accepted because, in our opinion, they do not comply with Article 23(2). The law on state administration, under which the regulation, or resolution, is passed by the minister. There are 21 such amendments. The ten amendments, in our opinion, are not in line with the concept of the draft law relating to the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Artificial Juvenile. The five amendments, in our opinion, do not comply with the concept of the bill when it comes to general conditions for the exercise of the rights of the student and student standard, that their rights are exercised on the basis of competition and objective criteria or that a new solution is fully governed by a given area. Eight amendments could not be accepted because the acceptance of these amendments, in our opinion, could lead to abuse of rights in the area of student and student standards, or would reduce student rights, i.e. students, or make it difficult for the institution to work or to question the right to work and to have a job available. The five amendments could not be accepted because the amendments were in a certain way already contained in the draft legislation's solutions. The nine amendments could not be accepted because the solutions set out in the proposal for a law are in line with the system laws on education and education, whether it is the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Law on Higher Education, or other regulations and development strategies. The four amendments could not be accepted because the issues in them were covered in a way that did not represent the matter of the Bill's proposal, i.e. they were already governed by regulations that were not within the scope of the Ministry of Education. The five amendments could not be accepted because it is not necessary in all cases for the institution to provide for fines for violations, if the responsibility of the Management Board or the Director is already provided. Two amendments for other reasons we couldn't accept. Finally, with the above reasons for not accepting the amendments, a number of amendments could simply not be accepted for formal reasons either. Of course, when we have discussed each amendment individually, I will meet the MPs and the National Assembly why some amendment could not be accepted, but I felt it necessary to give this joint information at the beginning of the debate on amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36796	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36797	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to replace "the student and student standard" in the second wording for "is the purpose of the student and student standard". I think it's a more logical and linguistically correct formulation. Simply speaking, it is not right to say "a student standard has a goal". It's like saying, "The National Assembly's businessman has a purpose." The goal can be an institution dealing with student standards, a ministry dealing with the problem, students, but the standard cannot have a goal. The standard is by itself a goal. It can possibly be said "the goal of passing laws on student and student standards", but the wording "student and student standard" is not good. As for the facility in Krnjevo, I recognise Mr Obradovic's good will, unlike his colleague Dulic, who has completely ignored the problem here in the Assembly. But it's not good enough will, it's necessary for the government to change its mind. It's an illegal attempt to use one object to store hazardous waste. For a number of reasons that point to this, I will list only a few, concerning the responsibilities and responsibilities of the Ministry of Education. First, the government violates the rules on how to deal with the hazardous waste itself. Article 7 of that Regulation clearly states that hazardous waste can only be stored in buildings at least five kilometers away from the settlement. The facility in Krnjevo is located several hundred metres from the first rural houses and, important to the minister of education, is located about a kilometer, a mile from the village elementary school building and the village kindergarten. Under the same regulation, waste must be at least three kilometres from the protected natural or cultural heritage. I was already saying that near this facility is the building of the oldest rural school in Serbia and the 17th century cabin church. The third reason why the minister should advocate that the government change its decision is the fact that a potential warehouse is located near the source of drinking water that provides water for citizens of Krnjeva and primary school pupils. These are the reasons why the citizens of Krnjev do not allow waste disposal to be carried out in the facility and they have been preventing work on the facility for 40 days on a day and night. As far as the Environment Committee is concerned, it held a session Tuesday, however, the facts are next. None of the government's representatives came to the session, none of the representatives of the Environment Ministry came to the session, the government provided any of the requested information. What is very interesting is that the session was not attended by any MPs of the ruling parties. What was particularly surprising to me was that the session was not attended by an SPS MP, who is in power in the Great Plan. I am obliged to inform the public that Committee President Cedomir Jovanovic has committed himself to schedule a second session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, and this way I remind him that he will do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36798	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Myalevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36799	I have submitted an amendment to delete the view that the rights of students and students established by this law are personal and cannot be transposed. I really think that it is normal and legitimate to conclude that the rights listed in Article 3 in item 1 – accommodation, nutrition, educational work, student loans, student scholarships, scholarships for extremely gifted students and students, rest, recovery, cultural, artistic, sports and recreational activities are not some rights that can be inherited. Every man, every student and student does it for themselves. I don't think that's supposed to be in the law, because it's meant to be, but on the other hand, with the minister, I really agree intimately that this should be regulated in a certain way. Because we no longer live in a time of socialism, and that relaxed socialism, we live in capitalism, and that cruel liberal capitalism, so that the state must protect its resources. In order not to repeat cases from the '60s and '70s, where a brother comes in and gets a bed in some home, and then the whole family goes through that floor and that bed, while smuggling jeans in front of a commission on Marshall Tito's then street, today the gray eminences of certain institutions that have 20-30 thousand leased countries, etc., so that you or some new parasites can no longer use the resources of the state, I say, I intimately agree with the minister that this problem needs to be solved, especially through certain inspections of the Ministry. These people need to be made aware that one man deserves, according to some of his proclivities, according to his points and results, what he has obtained, and that his brothers from uncles, aunts or born brothers don't deserve it, especially not for generations, so that he shouldn't stand by law, and some sublegal act should be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36800	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36801	Thank you, Madam President. Before I start talking about the amendment, I would just like to draw attention to the MPs, and to the gods and the public of Serbia, to a paradox that is happening today, but also to yesterday, as we discussed the law on preschool education. So it is very important for MPs to get one, not as the minister says technical paper, but a very important document for us, which is called the Government's report on amendments, where the representatives of the Government, or the Ministry, have very clearly explained why something was accepted, which is why some amendment was not accepted. What's the paradox in all this? Yesterday, the DSS MPs, we were talking about discussing the preschool law without that technical paper. The chairman-in-Office, Mr. Novakovic, did not want to interrupt the session, although it is clear in the Rules of Procedure that he must do so until we have received a report from the government. The president was absolutely right when she interrupted the session today until this report arrived. So I need to draw attention to the public and the MPs who want to talk about this publicly about how the Rules of Procedure is interpreted in plastic terms and interpreted very creatively at the expense of the MPs and the damage of Serbian citizens. Secondly, I want to thank the minister for the information he tried to get at this short time, because last night the work ended at eight, and today we were here at ten, and that's the right way to work, but I have to tell Mr. Secretary to insist on getting the right information or at least half-truth. The information you've given us about the Trnev doesn't match the truth at all. Comrade Maric has already said something about it. I work at the Committee on Environmental Protection and I must tell you that this information there could not be considered because the minister who spoke to the MPs did not come in words: "these citizens are neither capable of having the knowledge nor the capacity to discuss it." These citizens, I mean, of course, our MPs, have shown their ignorance here because he, an orthopedist, has been chosen to represent urbanism and environmental protection, which is completely ignorant of things. So we can't discuss the Krnev because the minister won't, because he made the problem himself, and he won't come to the Assembly to discuss it. That's the whole story. Now a few things about amendments. We have submitted an amendment to Article 6 because there are high school students who only exist in one or two Serbian cities, such as the high school high school, which is one in Serbia and they compete in the first year of home. If they don't continue their stay at home, they lose their right to school. So it's about poor kids, we all know that, and that's why we put up with this amendment like this. I don't know if we've been clear enough for you and us, but that's the meaning of our amendment, and I'd like you to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36802	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36803	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the SRS always, in all proposals of the laws that come into the Assembly, and in cases where in certain provisions the word "minister" is used instead of the word "minister" where the ministry, as an authority of the administration, as a state body, should do these matters concerning, for example, such as here, the regulation of conditions, then the regulation of the criteria, the height of participation, etc., for principled reasons, the amendments, asking that instead of the words "minister" stand the word "ministration". So it does this for principled reasons, believing that the minister as an individual should not be empowered to do this, but rather to do so as a state body. Also, there are certain practical reasons. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you as Minister, as the first man in your ministry, because of your duties, because of your duties, can't physically escort every single case that happens in your ministry. That's why your ministry is here. That's why your advisors and the secretary of state are here. That's why everyone who works in your ministry should be doing this. If these were practical reasons, I'll show you on one case. At the Belgrade High School of Railways, located on Zdravka Celara Street, a certain Mrs Milka Djuretic was employed in the work and work tasks of psychologists. It's a very responsible place. When the lady in question brought her documentation into her personal file, she brought a degree in high-level university training in Pristina. After some time and certain reports, the criminal treatment of police administration's housing found that the lady in question did not have that diploma, or that the diploma was not valid. The lady even admitted that she actually bought this diploma and Serbia's MUP filed a criminal report against it. If the accident were greater, the lady would not have been employed in the home if her husband Milko Djuretic had not been employed at the House of Students "Petar Drapsin" in Belgrade. During his term as a student, about five million dinars were robbed. Now, that's just one example, Mr. Minister, to show you how some people can happen to come to very responsible places where our students are raised. You know, there's a nice saying that a doctor can become out of honor, but a doctor can't. You know that Comrade Tito was also a time-honored doctor, or doctor of various sciences. But the doctor is something else. In such a responsible place, he really cannot and should not do such moral and human qualities and qualities. I mean, as an individual, as a minister, you may not know about this, but I suppose your ministry will be, if it isn't, familiar before you and will react to that. That's exactly what I see the meaning of this amendment, that still the Ministry should be the one doing those jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36804	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we wanted to add to Article 7 a new position: 'The Treaty of Article 8 of this Article is concluded under the previously implemented procedure prescribed by the law governing public procurement'. What you gave in your explanation really stands. It's true that you've meant it, or predicted it in Article 32, but I'd just like to say briefly what our intensity was. Mr. Minister, you know that in Serbia about four billion euros per year is moving in the area of public procurement, and by the assessment of the profession, about two billion of those four are believed to be moving through the gray zone. So it's subject to abuse and all of what's partially established, say, in the DRI report. What is also true is the fact that in Serbia, however, few funds are allocated from the Republic's budget for education today. That is again the European Commission's message that follows standards in Serbia when it comes to education. It is very important to control the little poverty that is allocated from the budget for education and to keep an eye on how it is spent. It's also a devastating fact, and you finally said somewhere at the beginning of this year, that 90 percent of the budget goes exclusively for wages. Our intention, behold, was only to keep the money that does not involve wages in education, which is spent on something else, controlled and monitored by all the flows. Well, that was our idea and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36806	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you are still familiar with the principle of the SRS that we are in favour of certain decisions being made by the Ministry as a state body, not by the minister as an individual. Now we've found confirmation in article 7. Proposal for a law on student and student standards. In the opinion of the 3rd and position of the 8th member, it is said that certain actions will be taken by the Ministry, contracting or giving consent, and we have suggested that in Article 7, which otherwise speaks of the right of students to eat, and in point 3 is an exception to Article 4 of the proposed law, and we propose that the Ministry be competent to bring certain regulations, not a minister as an individual. A good contribution to this was made by fellow Munjic, but Article 7 itself further supports our efforts to stand "Minister" instead of "Minister". I must take advantage of your presence, Mr. Minister, to delegate two life problems to you. One is in your steadiest jurisdiction, the other is not, and you might want to take it into consideration. I suppose as a man who takes care of student and student standards, you'll try to solve this other problem in some way. The first problem is building an elementary school in Ljubovia, where I come from. The primary school building has been built for over ten years, with almost no actions taken during a five-year period because local self-government could not single out the funds, and the Ministry did not want, did not or could not, however. Correction works, I must remind you that a certain portion of the funds was allocated in 2009 and that the work was continued. I know it's not enough to finish this building, and I'm guessing in 2010, and at least by the start of school 2010/11. For years, make every effort to finish this building. It can also have a preventive effect on increasing the number of students themselves. It won't be worth it to us if it ends in five or ten years, when maybe it can only serve as a monument of enlightenment, if there are no children to go into it. I suppose this problem will be resolved very soon. There is another question that is directly related to the student standard. It's not your ministry's jurisdiction, but I'm sure in co-operation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy it can be resolved. It is a law on financial support for families with children, where students attending high school have no reason for primary school, but high school in border towns and cross the Drina River, and go to school in Bratunac, Srebrenica, Zvornik, Bijeljina and some other places, they lose their right to a children's allowance just because their regular schooling is not taking place in the Republic of Serbia. You know that these are smaller and mostly passive places, where the choice of profession is very small, and only for that reason are they forced to go across the street a few kilometers elsewhere, and they lose the right to a child's allowance. It's not about education in Switzerland or Austria, it's about education in Republika Srpska, so the problem should be solved. I don't expect you to be able to resolve this right away and that only you can influence it, but this first question regarding further construction works, or the completion of the school in Ljubovija, is certainly possible. We expect both me and the public of the place where I come from so we can hear the answer to the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36808	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36809	Comrade Peric, you can tell your colleagues and fellow citizens in Ljubovija that this year's school will be completed. Last year we singled out 25 plus three million dinars, 25 for work, three for equipment. The equipment's been purchased. A significant portion of the school's work is finished, there's something left in the partner area and in the gym. We've singled out 3.4 million dinars this year and it should all be over for the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36810	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36811	I have reported on this amendment not because of the member to whom the amendment applies, but because there are a large number of amendments to the SRS not only when it comes to this law, but also some other regulations, where we insist that the amendment removes the error that is likely in the Legislative Secretariat. Perhaps this bill is not a very good example to show the complete dimension of what is wrong. Since 2005, however, one infection has started, where the affairs of the state administration are brought down to ministers. I know that Mr. Obradovic doesn't need to make a statement about this, because this is also imposed in law regardless of what the Ministry thinks, but I have to do it for the public, because of Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, counting that he can use some of his influence on these people in the legislation, I mean the Secretariat, to draw attention to just a few details. In accordance with Article 125. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia mentions the ministers as a member of the government and nothing more, as a member of a collegiate body. In Article 136. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulates the position of state administration – the state administration is independent, bound by the Constitution and law, and is responsible for the government's work. These provisions where in this law and in many of our laws in some way define something that the ministry does as a government body, regardless of whether it's a classic law enforcement or whether it's a normative act under the law, it doesn't come out of the state administration's affairs, and the state administration's jobs are done by the ministry. Of course, for everything that comes out of the ministry, where the minister acts as an individual at the head of that administration, he also does so as a representative of the state authority. It's generally known and widely accepted. But here, for several years now, it's as if some kind of mania has appeared, where the organ should be defined, an individual at the head of the organ is defined. You just make one mental mistake. As if we don't have government, we only have ministers. They're all authorized, and we don't have government. And in fact, we have the state administration and we have to keep it safe. In that sense, this intervention of ours is being looked at. Our intervention is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the fact that an individual cannot be a state body. The exception is the President of the Republic, because, however, the role of the President of the Republic can only be done by an individual who has passed the elections. But when it comes to the minister, he's head of the government's authority. Who's acting? It's the government's authority. Why is the minister signing? Because it is headed by the authorities and is represented and represented by third parties, with the public etc. Otherwise, the minister as a category or synonym appears only in Article 125, where he is said to be a member of the government. That's why we're putting up with these amendments to distract us. Do not make individuals an authority of the state administration, then one of them will really behave according to the system – me state. We're running away from it, I guess. If you're writing like this, then you're giving the minister undeservedly more discretionary powers than he could possibly have and carry. You make him, practically, irresponsible for everything, because everything depends on his boss. And that's not the way it's supposed to be, because the minister is a member of the government. Of course, I don't expect Mr. Obradovic to respond because this goes beyond the law. But you see with the people in the Legislative Secretariat, this is a mental error in writing the law. Think about it too, we have the Law on the National Assembly and we have an obligation to form a committee that needs to pass a general act on how laws are written and how they should look. Well, let's make this an idea for you to think about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36812	MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36813	I'm going to have a very short, apropo of this legal-theoretic observation of my colleague Krasic. It is not disputed to hold a meeting of the Legislative Committee with representatives of the Legislative Secretariat, but you, counterpart Krasic, are wrong. If we also look at the context of constitutional solutions that the Government in the system of division defines as someone who determines and manages politics, so when we put it in the context of the Government Act, those standards that say the Government is made by the Prime Minister and the members of the Government are ministers, and in the context of the State Administration Act, and those provisions relating to the powers of the Minister to adopt regulations, simply, the solutions made in the draft of this law are precisely in the context of the overall legal order of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36814	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the Committee for Education has submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP GordanaPop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason for submitting this amendment is the principled nature of the SRS, which is systematically highlighted in many proposals for legislative projects, and you have just heard from fellow MP Zoran Krasic -- based on the provisions of Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Amendment to Article 10. The bill envisions replacing the word "Minister" in attitude 5 and attitude 16 with the word "Minister" in the word "Minister". With this amendment, the SRS wants to highlight the importance of the state body as part of the institution of the state administration system, not the minister as a political figure. You have heard from Zoran Krasic before that in article 125. The minister's constitution is mentioned as a member of the government. It cannot identify the importance of this high-ranking state official with the importance of a single government body. To whom, in a legal sense, do we actually give meaning? Is the subject of decision-making or by the importance of a decision-making decision on the exercise of rights, whether or not it is a minister? In response to the amendment I submitted, you stated that under Article 23. The State Administration Act, the minister, inter alia, adopts certain individual acts, solutions, decisions and others. We in the SRS believe that it is the Ministry, regardless of the importance of the reasons I mentioned in the legal sense, and especially given the provisions of the Constitution that speak of it. Mr. Minister, I wouldn't really have to tell you anything ugly, bad, anything negative, but can you imagine a situation where tomorrow one of the current corrupt politicians, and unfortunately we have them, is a certain number of individuals, don't God become a minister in the Serbian government, and let's say for fighting crime and corruption (I mean some people, citizens of Serbia, who are illegally sitting in these assembly benches, otherwise to former members of the SRS), and that such a man should decide on the exercise of one's rights, the rights of citizens, and also the rights of students and students under the terms of Article 4 of this bill? Every MP mentions a problem from where it comes from, and I will mention that the government should have more consideration and more investment in raising standards of institutions, in this case home of high school students in Aleksinec, because, in addition to full understanding of the financial situation and lack of budget resources, and how it is necessary to raise the standard, accommodation and nutrition of students in Alexinac, of course and elsewhere, to a more quality level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36816	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36817	Mr. Minister, Article 10 of Section 15 states that a student who is found to have exercised the right to student credit permanently loses his right to student credit. The SRS has submitted an amendment to this provision of the bill. We believe that this should be specified, that it must be established in a disciplinary, or judicial procedure that the student has misused this right to student credit. According to what was written in the bill, the Ministry of Education will determine whether someone has misused the right to student credit. We don't think the Ministry of Education should be involved in this. This should be done by competent institutions in the appropriate procedure. It could be a disciplinary offense, it could be a classic offense, it could be a felony. For each of these violations of the law, there is a competent entity that determines in the appropriate procedure whether or not the student has misused that right. You did not accept this amendment because, according to the government's reasoning, it is not in line with the concept of the bill. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, but there's really no basis for this argument. Therefore, the concept of the bill on student and student standards cannot be such that it provides for the provisions of other laws which clearly prescribe that abuse must be established in an appropriate procedure. We are not asking at all that a student who abuses his right not to lose the right to student credit, we are simply asking that abuse be established by the competent authority in the appropriate procedure, and it is absolutely not a foreign concept of the bill. So the Ministry of Education can't deal with this. This should be handled by the competent authorities, primarily by the courts. Because when it says abuse of rights, it associates it with an offence, so it should be dealt with by lawless courts, and when it is said abuse, it indicates the execution of a criminal offence, and it should again be handled by courts in an appropriate procedure. I think you have every argument to accept this amendment. It is also in line with the concept of the bill, but more importantly, it is in line with the current regulations of the Republic of Serbia that violations of the law must be established by the competent authority in the appropriate procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36818	Minister Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36819	It seems to me that my colleague Martinovic and I absolutely agree in the concept. So whoever misused this right should not be a beneficiary of the right and, in our opinion, the competent state authority will determine that abuse, and the minister will, based on this finding, decide, in accordance with the law, on the appropriate position of the users in the abuse of that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36820	Mr. Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36821	Mr. Minister, maybe that's what you think. If so, I support that attitude of yours, but, unfortunately, that's not what the bill says. The bill reads this: "A student found to have exercised the right to student credit permanently loses the right to student credit." Now we want this abuse to be established by the competent authority in an appropriate procedure, but not by the Ministry of Education, because otherwise, under the Ministry of Education Act, the Ministry of Education cannot take over the jurisdiction of the court without the court working now, but the Ministry of Education will determine whether there was an abuse. What, Mr. Minister, if it is determined that in this abuse of the right to student credit there are elements of a crime? Then the question arises who will determine it. As it is written, there is only one conclusion – that the Ministry of Education will determine whether someone has misused the right to student credit or not, and the Ministry of Education cannot do so. This can be done by competent courts in court proceedings, in criminal proceedings. That's what we want. You and we who have submitted the amendment agree that one who abuses the right to student credit should permanently lose it. We don't just agree on who determines this abuse, because as it is written, it turns out that abuse is determined by the Ministry of Education, and we believe that abuse should be determined primarily by the court in an appropriate procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36822	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36823	Col. Martinovic, not the Ministry will determine whether someone has misused the right, but will just determine the competent authority, and we will, under the authority provided for by this law, do our part of the job, on the basis of a report by the competent authority. Our idea is the same, we're just different in procedure. The loan competition is public. Anyone with any information, suspicion or other kind of suspicion thinks that one of the participants or someone who has received that credit has done something that is not in accordance with the law, should be informed by the Ministry, we shall inform the competent authority which issued the relevant confirmation, he will determine in his own procedure whether or not it was or whether, based on his report, we will take appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36824	Mr. Martinovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36825	By listening to you, Mr. Minister, I really don't understand why you didn't accept the amendment then, because your ideas that the competent authority should determine abuse are much better realised through the amendment than through the formulation that you have proposed to us. I'm sorry, it says "student for whom it's being established," but it doesn't say who it's supposed to be. You say they'll be dealing with some other organs. Then why didn't you write it like that? Then accept an amendment that says nicely that a student who, in a disciplinary, or judicial procedure, is found to have committed abuse should be held accountable. So our amendment is much better suited to the lawmakers' intensities than to the formulations that you have proposed. We can take your word for it and think that a really competent authority will deal with it, but who knows, maybe you won't be a minister tomorrow. Perhaps some minister will interpret this provision so that there is no need to establish abuse in the court proceedings, but the Ministry of Education is going to say in a casual manner – yes, there were abuses and now someone should permanently lose the right to student credit. The right to student credit, Mr. Minister, is not a harmless right at all, given the difficult economic situation in which all Serbian citizens find themselves, and of course the student population. It may happen that the Ministry of Education wrongly takes the view that someone has misused the right to student credit and is permanently deprived of that right because simply, the Ministry of Education is not competent in determining abuse. So, if you want to divulge all doubts about who determines abuse, then accept our amendment nicely. He fully corresponds to your intention to establish in the court proceedings whether there was an abuse, so if there was, then whoever misused his right should permanently lose him. Now, if there's a formulation left that you suggested, then she can in practice cause different interpretations and we're afraid of abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36826	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36827	I understand fellow Martinovic's concern, but I assure him there is no reason to worry. You said - we think this is better. We don't think, and that's why we didn't accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36828	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36829	The amendment to Article 11 is another principled amendment concerning the minister and the ministry. I absolutely agree with all the reasons cited by colleagues Mirko Munjic, Sreto Peric, Zoran Krasic and Milovan Radovanovic, that the minister, as a political figure, is of a changing nature. Ministers pass, and the ministry is the authority of the state administration that stands and exists for decades, and it is indeed leading and regulating certain policy and certain competences, so we think that you should finally sign the ministries in laws a little bit more and a little less ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36830	The 11th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36831	Since the October Bulldozer of the Revolution, from the moment Serbia was showered with democracy, so far, Mr. Minister, across the chair where you are now sitting several ministers of various profiles, various understandings and various definitions. With all due respect to Mr Krasic's discussion, I'd just like to say a few more words. The SRS sees the minister as the head of an institution called the ministry. The departments stay, and the clerks pass. And then someone will come after you, and precisely because we believe that someone much worse will come after you, we believe that this amendment and the word "Minister" should be replaced by the word "Minister". Let me remind you, two mandates before you were sitting in the chair of a certain Gašo Knezevic, who allowed himself, because he felt that he had already exceeded the rank and became an institution, to apply the draft law on the university and, under the draft law, replaced Professor Vojislav Seselj as a regular professor. Well, so they don't get into a situation like this if they think they're an institution, we think we should adopt this. The fact that Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, wrote in law what he wrote and what goes through all the time, and I think it needs to be changed, does not mean that the Law on State Administration is good. In an explanation of why you did not adopt my amendment, you say – it is not accepted because under Article 23. The State Administration Act is passed by a minister. The ministry is laying down regulations, and the minister, as someone who heads the institution, only signs them. I know it doesn't mean much to you, but many who come after you, or some who were before you, will. That's why it's up to the ministers not to think the state is in the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36832	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36833	Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I believe this amendment should be rejected and the law should remain as it is written. (National MP Milan Avramovic throws out of town. ) On the other hand, I, sir who throws away, listened carefully to the misdemeanor of the previous speaker as he cried and tried to read what was written to him, and I ask you to listen to me very carefully, for I have something to say to you. (President: Mr Milivojevic, please address the chosen words of your colleagues. ) Mr. Zarko Obradovic is a great minister. The Ministry of Education is an excellent ministry, and you run this ministry in a great way. When we talk about the reform government of Dr. Zoran Djindjic, I must say that Mr. Gašo Knezevic is a three-way road to these laws, along with this ministry, and that we are now continuing to implement these reforms in a good, comprehensive, comprehensive way and that after you, he will not remain a memory of you as a minister, but of the institution of the Ministry of Education that hit the basis of the education of young generations in this country. If we really don't want to remember more time before the Bulldozer of the Revolution, when Serbia was in a democracy up to its neck, we need to remember what we had then from the party of the gentleman who is now throwing it away. I want to say this: education is the foundation of the future society that we are now building. Just continue to run your ministry perfectly, because it is good for Serbia to invest in the education and knowledge of young generations. Anyone who helps on this journey is welcome and his contribution is immeasurable. Anyone who stumbles Serbia in the fight for the achievement of knowledge and the creation of a knowledge society makes a bear service for generations to come. I think together we are now paved the way for Serbia's future by passing such laws and I think this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36834	Replica. Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36835	I think, Madam Chairman, that you had to take protection of the minister, because nearly three-quarters of this discussion concerned exactly the political party whose representative is the minister. I think this time you had to listen a little more carefully to the speaker and hear what he said. However, I will comment on that part of the discussion that concerns me. It's a good thing Mr. Milivojevic listened to me, but between listening and understanding is a drastic difference, and I don't think he's capable of doing this any other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36836	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36837	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that this term "Minister" be replaced by the term "Minister" for the reasons presented by Mr Krasic and I will no longer deal with the subject. Mr. Minister, for your further handling of the case of Krnjevo, I find it useful to give you one piece of information, to point out one truly amazing fact that no environmental impact assessment has been done for this project. Today in Serbia, you cannot raise any objects, a simple garage without assessing the impact on the environment. It is truly incomprehensible that the Serbian government believes that a storage of hazardous waste can be carried out at the edge of the inhabited area, near a rural school, without this assessment. I want to take this opportunity to raise one important issue, which concerns at least 70,000 families in Serbia, which is a question of free textbooks. At the beginning of last year, the education ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia shared free textbooks with the students, with their parents signing registries and taking the obligation to return those textbooks at the end of the school year. The problem is that June is approaching and that there is a great doubt about who will have to return and pay for those textbooks. There's a fear most of them will have to pay for them, so I'd like you to answer a few questions for me. What is this degree of damage that will make textbooks have to be paid for? What about the textbooks where the students had to write, and you know that most textbooks are like that? Next thing you know, what's gonna happen to a first-class student whose parents, for some reason, probably for lack, can't pay for their textbooks, and be convinced they'll be like that? That's why the Ministry of Education sent a letter to the principals of primary schools. That manual says that a student who doesn't pay for the textbooks that are damaged won't be able to get a student's license. In this regard, I wonder if you are considering in the Ministry the possibility that first-class students, and since this year and second-class students, really give the textbooks free of charge, without this obligation to pay for them in the event of damage? I don't think it makes any sense to expect a child who is seven years old to keep books that he puts in a bag at least three or four times a day, removes from the bag, etc. I'll make a comparison. About a year ago, MPs of the National Assembly received a booklet — Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I claim that if we were first-class students and that control had to be carried out, 90% of the MPs would have to pay for that Rules of Procedure, that book. I don't mean MPs of the ruling coalition here because they don't use that book at all. A logical question is raised – if MPs working in these conditions are unable to preserve a single textbook that they have, how do they expect children who are seven years old to save from the damages of 10 or 12 books?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36838	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36839	Dear colleague Maric, I will try to answer your question about free textbooks. The project started last year, and it will be this year, hopefully next year, because it shouldn't be a project of any minister or government. It should be a permanent thing in the Republic of Serbia and something that is part of education and future generations. The fact is, when we started this project last year, and the idea was given by Professor. Micunović, I have to mention, for the record, it's the order to mention, we tried to realize it and it proved in the first year of application that we did a lot of useful things for children, parents and education. But I have to say very honestly, I'm not sure that we've come across the approval of one number of publishers, because, on the other hand, it's a very lucrative job, because the number of textbooks in certain subjects has become very abundant and you're right, then 12 or 13 or 15 or 18 books have become the reality of a student's bag. We had a publisher, for example, who had five books for his mother tongue. This is what I'm talking about for the next reason. Last year, we did some very useful things for us. Of course, it was decided by professional people because we formed an appropriate commission. First of all, that commission has determined what a textbook set is. It's about one textbook, one book and a workbook, and each item is about what a textbook set is. It was delivered to teachers. They had an obligation on the school's agenda to choose the best textbooks by themselves. Earlier, one textbook's choice was to drag a whole set with it. The best textbooks are now selected. It is objective, with the choice of best textbooks, and responsibility for knowledge passed on to children. The weight of the student bag has been reduced. We have also achieved this social dimension, we have objectively achieved an economic dimension. There's one more thing that's positive, we haven't touched the teacher's right to choose an appropriate textbook according to the method of teaching. It's their right. If they chose the textbook to write, it's written in it. If they chose an unwritten textbook, it is not written, because it is a method of teaching teachers. What's the problem? The problem is that, in our opinion, the quality of these textbooks is not at the proper level. Because the entire project of free textbooks in both our country and the world has a broader dimension, which includes technical conditions. When you ask me if it's logical to keep the textbook, it depends, of course, on both the child and the relationship to that book, but also on technical conditions. A book that is printed on weak paper, which is of poor quality, which does not have the right cover, of course, that after the first listing will be defiled and of course cannot be returned and of course there should be no such kind of concern by parents. I remind you, this is about 80,000 sets and, according to all the data we have, there's a small number of textbooks that weren't written. But that's what we said last year, and we've been repeating the same story all year, that the textbooks in which it was written won't be returned. And the more we talk, the more we repeat the same question over and over again, and then I don't know if you and we as the Ministry are even listening. We tried to be very precise. The Commission will establish the degree of damage to textbooks and, of course, those who are damaged should be paid. If you get that way, at no cost, then you should take care of it. We've already talked to publishers, now we've been followed by another year, but objectively, it's a project that should have a much longer life span and its contents. It implies, of course, and respect for the National Educational Council and programmes and subjects and, believe it or not, the technical side. In some richer countries, books are laminated and passed down from generation to generation, and there is no problem with the damage because everyone's taking care of it, and we keep asking the question. Malten, we're in one inferior situation, so that others can, and we can't. It's good for us, but only with respect to certain standards and behaviors and students and parents. Why wouldn't a kid learn to watch that book? In certain countries, not only are books obtained free of charge, but a kind of socialization of children is achieved in a way that carries a student blouse and other symbols of the school, all talking about the importance it has in its content and that part of the relationship to education in general. Books that are damaged and written, and I'm talking about books that say, of course they won't be the subject of any kind of payment. And the largest number of such books. My colleague Maric, it is literally the largest number of such books, because teachers themselves chose it. In conversation with publishers, there is absolutely a good will to solve every issue. For the first time, we have brought the Law on the issuing of textbooks and other teaching tools, we are slowly introducing order into this area, and we will resolve these issues. We don't, of course, go into content, there's a commission. If you remember the Law on textbooks, it is known exactly how books will be published, based on plans and programmes, based on reviews, on the examination of the Institute, the approval of the Council, and the minister only signs the final decision. But these technical conditions must also be taken into account. I must say that this is a problem seen in other countries, that some of the technical characteristics of the book absolutely affect its fate. The contents are good, but technically they're not right. Very quickly and easily spent. We don't have much money as a state. We've been talking all morning, both yesterday and today, about not having enough money for preschool, for neither primary nor secondary education and that we need to invest. We think that absolutely and with this project it should be rational, that with the money we own, we achieve the greatest effect. But no one can argue that a positive shift has already been made at this stage not only in this economic and social sphere, but we have objectively helped teachers to choose the best sets. We will no longer have a situation, for example, to use different textbooks at school level in two classes of the same class. Let the teachers sit down and agree between themselves which method is appropriate and choose the best textbook, because then they take responsibility for the knowledge of that child tomorrow and the day after. So we're going to solve all of these things that can appear as a problem, colleague Maric, along with the publishers and with the money that we own as a state for this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36840	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36841	Mr. Minister, thank you for the explanation you gave me, I'm pleased. I just want to point one more time at what you said yourself. The government must take care of the interests of 70,000 students, the interests of education, the social interests and must not succumb to the pressures of publishers, publishing lobbys, which certainly exist because they are huge money. As far as this project is concerned, sharing free textbooks is a great move. I'm trying to make sure that those textbooks are really free of charge. I know it's an expensive investment, it's a huge amount of money, but this is one of the few investments I hope there's no doubt that it's justified. It's an investment literally in the future of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36842	The 16th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Mr. Pejcic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36843	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would like to begin by thanking you for accepting the amendment of the DSS parliamentary group and saying a few words about this amendment. The amendment concerns Article 16, which speaks of infringements and obligations of students. It's about easier and more serious injuries. Easier injuries are regulated by a general act of the institution, and more serious injuries are regulated by this law. We wanted to act preventively on both students and their parents, because the consequences for these injuries are great, and this is the pre-disfellowshipment and exclusion from the home. Therefore, in Article 16(3), point (10), the words 'toxic drugs, or psychoactive substances' are added after the words 'drinking alcohol'. This increases the safety of students, students themselves, increases the safety and safety of workers working at home, and this amendment is important for the general health of students, as well as to apostrophe of alcohol, narcotics and intoxicating funds. I thank you once again on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36844	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on student and student standards. In Article 20, the word "minister" is replaced by the word "ministers". The amendment is another one in which the SRS tries to point out that it is important in the law that consent to decisions is given by the ministry as a state body, not by a minister as a person representing the ministry. This amendment refers specifically to the decision of the student’s board of directors, i.e. the student’s home, or student’s centre, to provide accommodation and nutrition for students, and to the student center of accommodation and nutrition and educational work with students within the necessary accommodation facilities. The consent should be given by the Ministry, not by the minister. The practice is that these amendments are being rejected even though we find them very justified. Although the right to a student and student scholarship has already been the subject of debate, I will return to this topic, and the reason for this is in Leskovec in recent months. In Leskovec, along with all other city funds, is shutting down the Scholarships and Prizes Fund in the territory of the town of Leskovec. As a legal follower of all these funds, the Agency for Local Economic Development is being established. I will remind you that after the change in the structure of the government in Leskovac, in March of last year, it stopped implementing the Fund's decision to pay scholarships to students who meet very rigorous criteria set by the Fund. We from the SRS have publicly asked the questions responsible for the exercise of power in Leskovac whether now, after the formation of an agency representing a legal follower, among other things, and the Fund for the award of scholarships and awards, will begin with supporting the best students from the territory of the town of Leskovec. We didn't get the answer. This support for the best students is of great importance, because besides Leskovac being a city with a high percentage of youth participation in the structure of unemployment, more and more young people are leaving town. Disrespect for the decision to pay for the scholarships is a lack of care for the government for this population. During pre-election campaigns, we constantly hear promises to young people that jobs will be provided, that they will be scholarshipd best to stay in their country, in their cities, and when they need to be implemented, then forget all about it. A responsible authority should not behave like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36846	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the Committee for Education has submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on student and student standards, I have submitted an amendment that reads - in Article 23(2), following the words "free capacity", the words "in the days of holidays set by the school calendar" are added. The proposed amendment aims to prevent possible abuses of secondary school principals who practice the issue of student beds, i.e. rooms, third parties, both tourists, athletes and the like, during weekends, or working days, when students have the right to a smooth regular stay, accommodation and nutrition in the dormitories where they were given the place based on the overall success of school. The explanation provided by the Government is that this amendment is rejected and not accepted because the draft law also refers to institutions for accommodation of students who do not have a vacation according to the school calendar, as well as to facilities for rest and recovery, in which the facilities are just filled at the time of leave for students and students, and at that time there are no available facilities. This argument is in collegiate with the bill itself, where this "use of free capacity" as if it didn't exist. However, I will read, in order to clarify, this particular Article 23, which says that "the institution can perform another activity that is in the function of its basic activity, with the consent of its founders", and the second position thus defines those spare capacities, which the Government claims does not exist: "In the course of its activity, for the purpose of the use of free capacities, the institution can provide services to third parties, which is subject to a special record". This is a preventive amendment to prevent possible abuses by the principals of students' homes, which is why I suggested it, and I hope the Ministry will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36848	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36849	Mr. Minister, you are in the position of Article 23(2). The bill was written: "In the context of its work, in order to use free capacity, the institution can provide services to third parties, which is the subject of a special record". We have suggested that this attitude suffers from a change in the sense that it can be allowed for a maximum of 20% of the capacity, except in case of default. Mr. Minister, we understand that funds must be sought to ensure the work of student and student homes and that this is a serious problem, but it opens up another story. We understand that you need these extra funds, it's not controversial, but what is the issue? These funds are missing, and they need to be provided in the budget and we come up with that story – what the budget funds are spent on. When funds from the budget are distributed by the ministries, when it is a party interest, then we come to this, that we have to go to the market to find additional funds to function. We suggest you reduce it, limit it, control it. Because what does this member say? To what extent is it possible to give these capacities? Is that a full perimeter? Is that 50%, 70%, 10%? So it has to be restricted. On the other hand, there is money in the budget for various things, both for bar services and for ski resorts and so on. Serbian Davos for both night skiing and official cars, for all and all things in this country, and for what needs to be the state's interest, there is no means to do so. We offer you an optimal solution -- to limit it, to put it under control, not to be full scale, not to be 90%, but simply to have some measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36850	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36851	My colleague Dimitrijevic, this solution existed years ago, both in the '90s and after 2000, and it's nothing new. Your amendment would in those days and weeks when the facilities are available because students have an exam deadline, learn, work and are not users of the services of the institution of student accommodation or resort, simply limit the possibility of additional money. And that money appears to many as the only source to maintain the quality of these institutions, precisely because of this problem you've been talking about -- lack of enough money, budget structure of the Ministry of Education and the way of possible use of funds. What I know, and you can see for yourself, of course, that not only is it based on my word, is that for many student and student institutions in days and weeks when students and students do not use student and student homes, this valuable resource is used to function these institutions. Of course, it's just a win. A colleague, Kragovic, seems to have mentioned certain homes. There are homes in Serbia where there are insufficient numbers of interested students to fill their capacities and then what remains, of course, in accordance with the regulations, is given to use third parties at an economic price, because there are students from private schools, there are students who finance themselves, and there are still additional funds for the functioning of these institutions. Just so you know what's on our side, the essence of this Article 23 and why, unfortunately, we couldn't accept it. Because we thought it could be restricted. Otherwise, it is known exactly when the deadlines were examined and the student interest was increased. Students and students both have their own time when they learn and want to rest. Then student and student homes and student resorts are absolutely and exclusively for use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36852	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36853	Mr. Minister, it's not a dispute. We agree that the money does not have enough, but by amendment we proposed up to 20% of the capacity, except in cases of default capacity. So it could be more. This second attitude does not limit. Someone can interpret so they'll issue 90% of the capacity. So something has to be done about it. It's not our intention to prevent it from coming in a certain way, but to get it under control. And I was talking about why there's not enough money in the budget. What are taxpayers' money spent on? Why doesn't one of these important institutions have enough power from the budget? That's the problem. It's the government's problem, it's the government's irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36854	On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Education Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36855	Thank you, Madam President. We have submitted an amendment to Article 26 of Article 2 where it reads: "A second legal or natural person can establish an institution if, apart from the conditions laid down in Article 1 of this Article, there is a guarantee of a business bank that the funds provided are necessary for three years of work... "We have submitted an amendment to replace this "three years of work" with "four years of work." What was our idea? Our initial idea was cycles in education, not how many bank guarantees are given. This is why we felt, since it is still an institution that deals with student and student standards, therefore it is accompanied by education and the rhythm of education, that these cycles should be monitored here and that the only criterion is education and cycles of education, and not others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36856	The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36857	This is an amendment to the same article 26. This article speaks of what conditions are for the establishment, start of work and exercise of activity. My amendment refers to item 5, and there's a list that a natural person can't be the founder of an institution. You have listed that this cannot be a natural person convicted of a criminal offence for which an unconditional sentence of at least three months has been imposed or convicted of a crime of domestic violence, etc. We think you've put this in a relatively good form, that you've listed a number of crimes that make a person unable to establish an institution, but you failed to indicate that it can't be the person who participated in human trafficking. We think it's also a terrible offense and that the person involved or involved in such a network, of course, caught and convicted, cannot be the founder of the facility. We just wanted to supplement this. In your explanation, you say that if you accepted this amendment, then it would not be in line with a member of the basic, roof law. Yesterday you didn't want to accept any amendments so that things from the roof law wouldn't repeat themselves, and now you don't want to supplement this because it already exists in the roof law. So different criteria are from members to members. We really don't see why you wouldn't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36858	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36859	Dear People's MPs, the SRS points to the proposed provisions and articles of the bill on student and student standards and proposes, with the right, amendments to improve it. I believe that by accepting the amendments proposed by the SRS, this law, when adopted, would be much more quality and acceptable for students, students, their parents and, of course, citizens. As far as the amendments I have proposed are concerned, in Article 26, pages 8, 9 and 10. The draft law on student and student standards replaces the word "minister" in the word "minister", I believe the billmaker will adopt it. The proposed amendment, gentlemen of the People's MPs, points to the fact that the state administration's body is not a minister, as a policy or an undisputed professional figure, but that it is a competent ministry, in this case, the Ministry of Education of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have an obligation to, on behalf of the citizens that I represent in this assembly and in the SRS, point out and ask the legislator of this law for some important facts, which are either deliberately or without sufficient experience in this area. First, why is this bill exclusively about high school students, and is eliminated by elementary school students, especially those from fifth to eighth grade? Don't these students have the right to an organized accommodation, nutrition, and educational work outside their place of residence? If there is a decline in the birth rate in Serbia, there will be a decline in the number of students per grade 5th to eighth grade and these students, if they want to continue their compulsory primary education, will stay at their homes or will be privately placed in a place where there is a primary school. The Ministry of Education must have this fact in mind and already this law offers a solution. Also, with this bill, high school students have the right to student credit, scholarship, rest and other rights. Are students, for example, of the seventh grade with all fives and the first in the Republic of Serbia from mathematics, unable to have these rights as high school students? Why is this law not talking about housing and feeding a student without a parent? We have an example in Kruševec, where in the House of Children, "Jephemia" are located from preschool to high school.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36860	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36861	Mr. Minister, we are coming up with Item 9: "The standards of quality of student nutrition and students are prescribed by the minister". We suggested that it be the Minister of Health. For what? Because they're students and students of a population that's still in psychophysical development. The quality of the diet is very important. You cannot take for granted that you, or your ministry, as you wrote in your explanation, prescribe those standards because it is a very sensitive thing. When we talk about the food intake balance, what are energy in food, what are fat, what are carbohydrates, what are certain minerals, how can you take the right to prescribe it? Are you familiar with the area? We offer a solution that someone who is an expert, the Ministry of Health, prescribes a form on the quality of the diet of students and students. I think it's totally acceptable and reasonable. There is no one who can deal with a subject he does not know, and we are talking about young people, where nutrition is a very important segment in further development.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36862	The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36863	I will read Article 6: "Students, or students who are housed in an institution that is forbidden to work, have the right to stay and eat in the current school year in another institution designated by the Ministry". I have submitted an amendment to add item 7: "Students, i.e. students who have the right to stay on this basis, will receive accommodations in another institution, if there are places available in an institution similar to that of a school, or college that attends less than their place of residence." The explanation is very simple - students and students who are housed in an institution that is banned from work cannot be placed in another institution unless there is no place in that other institution. So, theoretically, one student home in Belgrade could be closed, that no other student home in Serbia has room and then the students can't exercise their right to do so. For this reason, I find it necessary to supplement this article with this amendment. Next, in order to avoid abuses, I think it is necessary, that it is welcome, that this provision applies only to those institutions that are closer to the place of residence of students or students, than, for example, to some new dormitories or dormitories where they can get a place. To make it a little clearer, first of all, for the sake of the citizens who follow, I'm going to set an example. For example, a student from Smederev lives in Belgrade and closes his student home in Belgrade. Under this bill, if the amendment is not accepted, he has the right to stay in a dormitory, say, in Leskovec or Nis. He may insist on achieving his right, but it is clear to you and me that he will not live in a dormitory in Leskovec or Novi Sad or Nis, but there are those students who will appeal to this right, take a place in a dorm and, of course, use that place to sell or give it to someone else. That's why I think it would be really helpful to adopt this provision. This is a good solution, but provided that there are places in student institutions, i.e. institutions for the accommodation of students and that these institutions are further away from their place of residence.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36864	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this amendment has asked that students and students who have the right to stay on this basis get accommodations in another institution if there are places available in an institution similar to that of a school, or a university that attends, less than their place of residence. So it is normal and logical that students and students who are placed in an institution that has been abolished cannot get accommodation in another institution if there are no adequate places in that institution or if we go in reverse order, if there is room in that other institution, then we think it is necessary to predict and specify the distance of that other institution from the teaching place, or from the place of study. If this would not have been done in the way provided for in this amendment, and this institution should be closer to their place of residence than the school or university, there could have been various abuses. I will refer only briefly to the government's argument that, if the amendment is accepted, it would reduce student rights. On the contrary, I believe that this would establish a fair criterion in the distribution of accommodation and, in fact, protect the rights of students and students. Mr. Minister, I'd like to open another question here, which I'd like to get an answer to now, if you're able to. If you're not, I'd like you to consult with your associates. I hope someone knows the answer to this question, so I'd still like you to answer it. You know, Mr. Minister, some students who were self-financed in the past year, based on positive legal regulations in this year, are attending classes as students who are financed from the budget. But what's going on? They're still paying that fee like they're self-financing. They've paid two wars by now, and the next, the third war comes to them in a few days. Mr. Minister, they were told to pay and that it would be returned to them, so refunded. Furthermore, due to some failure at the ministry, they did not receive any of the necessary paperwork. They were told that it was happening and that it would be corrected at the moment when it was obtained from the competent, your ministry. I'll say, for example, there are these colleges. It's about the University of Kragujevac Teacher's College in Užica. Not to mention, there are others, with what I've checked, in someone else, in others, that's not how it's done. One who's got a condition for schooling by paying out of the budget, that's what's done. These students don't pay as if they're self-financed. I ask the question – do you know of cases like this, if you know, why are such double arches applied to one or other students? I'd like to say that there really are some in this country who in some way swear to their honesty. Some of them just need money to be honest, but these kids really just need the same criteria, the same archaics in interpreting these positive legal rules, and, if I'm free from these kids, let's just say, they need to get these money back that they've given so far, and they shouldn't have given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36866	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36867	Comrade Lightning, I agree that the students need to get their money back. I have spoken publicly and clearly several times as a minister that colleges must not take from students of money, because there is a government decision that says that the cost of studying to students who have met the conditions for the current year will be passed by an appropriate number of exams, i.e. they have a corresponding number of points, if they are not within the quota that is budgetary, will be provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If there have been some problems with the transfer of the money that the government owns, it is part of the economic situation in which we live and responsibility in the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance, but students must not be damaged by the party in this case. I know that the largest number of students, when it comes to those who have given conditions and have not been within the budget, were in five universities (as much as memory serves – former defecology, Faculty of Security, FON, Political Sciences and I can't remember which is the fifth), that it was the High Business School in Belgrade, and then we said that we would also talk to them about the financial situation that exists in them, but we have, I repeat, clearly and publicly said that we should not be charged by children, or by students. I'm not familiar with this example of "Slips." To be honest, there are 345 employees in the Ministry of Education, one hundred twenty-something in the ministry itself, and something is in the school administrations, and we have very few people who are part of the educational inspection and we fail at the number of institutions that exist in Serbia to act quickly and efficiently, as we are expected because there are a large number of institutions and a small number of inspectors. In this case, it does not reduce the responsibility of those colleges, nor of us as ministries, because it is obvious here that one college, which is not in the group of those who have received a large number of students, is charging from students money, which should not be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36868	Mr. Mirko Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36869	Just for a little while. I never doubted for a moment that you'd give this answer, and it's really correct. Only on behalf of those children who have complained of it in some way will I be fully satisfied and they will be satisfied if you say they will be questioned and returned to them immediately, given this economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36870	Mrs. Donka Banovic. Did you sign up? No, I don't. Then there's been a mistake. National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36871	Ladies and gentlemen, before I explain this amendment, I would really like to hear an explanation from Mr. Obradovic, which is why amendments to Articles 30 and 31 have not been accepted. Because there's no logical reason not to. I have submitted an amendment to Article 38. Paragraph 1 states: "The establishment prohibits party and religious organisation and operation and the use of space for those purposes" and I think it's a good provision. Item 2 reads: "The worship and religious rituals can only be performed in institutions on convenient occasions, in accordance with the law governing the legal position of churches and religious communities." We suggested erasing attitude 2 for the reasons that homes where students and students of a specific institution are located. There you have tenants of different national and religious backgrounds, different ages, origins, social status, etc. We simply believe that performing any religious rituals in these facilities would disrupt human relations. A simple question arises – is it possible today in some student home in Serbia, especially in the current circumstances, where students of different nationalities are living, to organise worship without increasing tension among students? I argue that this is not possible, not only in Serbia, but also in the vast majority of European countries. The second thing is, what are the convenient occasions in which worship is allowed. Who will determine these opportunities, whether the Ministry of Health, the religious community or the students themselves? If this provision remains, then I think it is really necessary to specify, by religious communities, which are religious opportunities, so that there is no misunderstanding and abuse. It may occur that members of a particular religious community estimate that religious occasions are, say, once a week or every day hold worship. You have students of Orthodox confession, you have Catholics, you have Islamic religions and imagine they decide to observe worship every day. Then the question really arises who will say that these are not appropriate opportunities. I think it would be useful to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36872	National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Education Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 41st Amendment with correction was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment with the correction, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that this amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41 of Section 7 where the "Minister" is replaced by the word "Minister." The previous speakers were lawyers and very well and explained it summed up, so I wouldn't stick around and repeat the same story. As a man of education, I just want to say a few words about student and student standards. In fact, it is a serious matter and a serious area of our society, where young people across Serbia meet, and also abroad, where certain education is obtained, exchange their views on science and technology, culture, sport, civilization and that area deserves a very serious approach in the making of this law. While I was working in education, and also at the Ministry of Education, somewhere between 1996 and 2000, we were doing research on student and student standards, where this standard proved to be at an enviable level at the time, and these years much invested in the development of student and student standards. At that time, many student and student homes were renovated, and I believe it was a real renaissance to the development of student and student standards. At that time, it has been greatly improved, but since 2000, I have been informed that these student and student homes are barely being maintained. It mostly comes down to some petty procedures, painting and the like. During that period it was quite done to improve accommodation even in a hygienic sense, almost in half of the homes each room was given a bathroom and the like. The diet has improved, libraries have been restored, and this period should surely be remembered for its work and success. Today, however, we have problems with the student standard, and it is primarily related to people who work there with that youth until they eat. Unlike student standards, the student standard is better because students directly participate in the creation of life in student homes. They're taking part in these tips, starting with sports activities, all the way to nutrition. That's not the case with student standard and students. I appeal from this place to the minister that we should do a lot in this field, that students or parent advice take part in the creation of that life, I say to the whole, until the diet. Also mentioned are university cities all over Serbia and the problems that exist there. Since I'm from New Market, I must say that Novi Pazar has also won the university and has become a university city. I believe that he deserves to be built there, too, a dormitory and a dormitory in order to socialise and exchange students from all over Serbia, and also abroad, which would certainly contribute to the development of the region of Raska. It should be mentioned that there are over 19,000 students and over 10,000 students here. One of the problems that arises in this accommodation is the resale of student posts. That's what's always been and, unfortunately, there is today. About 15% of this happens in Belgrade, I received that information from certain home administrators. I believe this could be sanctioned by measures at university level, no matter what, because it's an injustice to students, or students from the inside. Those who are rich and deserve to have accommodations in a dorm or dormitory, unfortunately, if they are somewhere nearby or have money, they have private apartments, reselling those places, and then the insiders can't get to the deserved places. In that direction, I wanted to draw attention and appeal for it to be corrected, and it is possible to correct only by measures, until legal measures were taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36874	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the Committee for Education has submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize it has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36875	I'd like to ask you first to tell us how much time we have left within the Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36876	Another 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36877	The time I'm going to overstep, count on me from the time of my authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36878	All right, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36879	The amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, requires that Article 42, following Article 2, paragraph 3, which reads as follows: 'The annual work plan shall be adopted by the Management Board of the Institute no later than 30 September of the current school year'. The proposed amendment aims to establish closer the deadline within which the institution is obliged to adopt an annual work plan containing the educational work programme, and in order to know as soon as possible the guidelines of educational and pedagogical work in the student's home for the current school year. Therefore, while students are placed in the home of students and while educational groups are formed, the most reasonable thing is that the deadline for the adoption of the annual work plan is no later than 30 September. It is incomprehensible that the legislator for such an important issue as the annual work plan does not provide for a deadline for adoption, and when the SRS parliamentary group points to a failure, it rejects our amendment, and then, of course, the Education Committee proposes almost identical, which the government accepts. Of course, it is essential that the goal is achieved, i.e. to prescribe a deadline for the adoption of the annual work plan, but I think it was possible and to accept this amendment in an integrated form, because the words "current school years" absolutely change nothing in the text content. I am taking this opportunity to remind Mr. Minister, who said in the opening statement that the Ministry has fulfilled all obligations towards student homes and dormitories, that the conditions in the dormitories are neither the same in the entire territory of the state. Here's a few examples. The home of students of the milk school in Pirote has one bathroom on 30 students, i.e. For the whole floor, the roof leaks, the building's old, nothing's been invested in it for a long time, and the conditions for the apartment are, to say the least, very bad. Not to mention, let's say, the House of Students in Strelac near Babusnica, where life conditions are also catastrophic, unlike, say, the Home of Students in Novi Pazova, where each room has a bathroom, where conditions are far better, where breakfast alone has ten different variants. Still, as one of the plans of the Environment Committee, I would like to take a brief look at the problem in Krnjevo and the Municipality of the Great Plan. I understand the minister that it is not his portfolio and that he directs us to Mr Dulic, but I cannot believe that this resolution minister is speaking to the citizens, mildly, insolently, firstly, and to the MPs, in the sense that we are not professional enough. What is this profession that allows, without studying the environmental impact assessment, to delay hazardous waste, no matter what object it is? Here is the problem, of course, deliberately transferred to the area of legal and property relations. It's not the most important thing whose facility it is, it's that no one was involved in how it would affect the environment and the inhabitants of that place. I think that there is a deliberate shift in attention to something less important here, and therefore the SRS MPs on the Environment Committee will insist that the case be investigated to the end and return to the environmental pollution area, which is also the essential problem here. I'd still like to ask a specific question to the minister, who's in his vault. According to doubts expressed by the Ministry of KiM and the Ministry of Education, a large number of educational workers in the province, besides the salary from Belgrade, are also receiving salaries from the Kosovo budget. The head of the Department of Education for KIM said that the directors of all schools in KIM have been warned to exclude those teachers who make double incomes from work. He argues that enlighteners are very skillfully avoiding that with all the persons they claim to have another employer break the labor contract. I ask the Minister to give us an indication as far as this is concerned, because for example, this is one of the ways to achieve the savings that can be used, for example, for free textbooks or something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36880	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36881	My colleague Jocic, according to the information we possess, is not only in education, but also in health care and in other areas. As far as we are concerned from the Ministry of Education, we have spoken with colleagues from the Ministry of KIM and expect that next week our assistant minister of school administration and inspection supervision, together with a colleague from the ministry, will go to Kosovo and, of course, be down as long as it takes to determine the actual state of affairs, whether there is, and what people it is, so that at the level of the state, the Government, we can make an appropriate proposal for the measure of what to do. It's not just about people from education, it's about other areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36882	Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 48th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Here you go, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36883	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have submitted a total of five amendments to the draft law on student and student standards with the aim of bringing the bill into line with the existing decisions of the National Minority Councils Act. As you know, this house passed the National Council Act on August 31st last year. We have submitted these amendments most well-intentionedly so that we do not get into a situation where a certain law is in conflict with existing legal solutions. You, Mr. Minister, have accepted three of the five amendments. You have accepted our amendment regarding the jurisdiction of national minority councils in the process of defining the network of institutions of student and student standards. You have accepted our amendment on the proposal of certain parts of educational measures by the national councils of national minorities. You have also accepted an amendment relating to the competence of national councils on the definition of rank lists, but have not accepted amendments concerning the jurisdiction of national councils in the process of appointing the directors of institutions of student and student standards and the appointment of members of the board of directors of institutions of student and student standards. I would most directly like to ask you and expect an answer – why did you not accept these two amendments when you accepted three other amendments? Because it's literally about the same set of amendments, about amendments whose goal is the same -- so there's no conflict in our legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36884	The amendments with the correction together were submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Miss Ilic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36885	Thank you. The New Serbia parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 49. The draft law on student and student standards, which reads as follows: "In Article 49(4), the word "representative unions of the institution" is replaced by the words "employees in the establishment of most votes of the total number of employees", and the position of the 5th member is deleted. Article 49 refers to the board of directors of the institution of the student standard and provides for the number of board members and their composition. In addition to the representatives of the founders and parents, representatives of the institution are also part of the board of directors. Article 49(4) states that the representatives of staff in the establishment of the proposed representative unions of the institution, while Article 5 states that in an establishment where no representative union is organised, employee representatives propose to most of the votes of the total number of employees. We don't think it's justified in this way to pressure employees to organise themselves on a union basis, in a representative union. This is exclusively their right, which must in no way be violated, and there is no need to be conditioned in paragraph 4. that the representatives of the staff of the institution propose representative unions in the institution, in particular representative, which is a unnecessary condition, if paragraph 5 states that the establishment in which the representative union is not organised, the employee representatives propose to the majority of the votes of the total number of employees, which is an absolute right solution. The proposal or decision-making by all employees by most votes is certainly a greater guarantee of the regularity and right choice of their representatives than a narrowed representative body in the form of a representative union and there is no reason to give all employees an alternative right to decide in the absence of a representative union. All employees, primarily as the most correct, should be given the exclusive right to decide and the possibility for each employee to express his opinion on each candidate. For this reason, we consider that the replacement of words referred to in point 4 is justified in the words set out in point 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36886	Thank you. Mrs. Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36887	Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. President, I just want to clarify our explanation, believing that this amendment is really necessary to accept, above all, because it reflects that best democratic practice, that everyone has the right to choose and be chosen. The explanation that we have received as a reason to refuse this amendment is to call for a collective agreement. However, it is a lower act than the law, which must rely on a higher act, and the law is a higher act and a collective contract cannot condition the adoption of the law. In fact, if each employee is chosen and elected only to collectives where representative trade unions exist, then some people, who are in each collective, who are high-quality workers, who deserve to be on the board of directors, where they would probably be extremely useful to the institution and users of the services of the institution, will be prevented from being elected to that body significantly for the work of the institution. For this reason, we felt that the collective collective agreement itself would regulate the way in which it would select its representative on the board of directors, and the law should provide for the possibility for all representatives in the board of directors to be in the establishment. I think it's much more democratic and broader than this and the law justifies it entirely. A collective contract can resolve this within the institution, given that this member is foreseen to exist institutions where there are no unions and where there are trade unions. The union plays a completely different role in the work of the institution compared to what the Management Board provides. The role of the Management Board is not identical to that of the union-organised workers in the establishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36888	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Education has submitted to the 50th Amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36889	We have submitted an amendment to Article 53. The title above the member is "The Director of the Institute". The amendment refers directly to paragraph 5. Although in your explanation, you say it's not like that, that's attitude 6, that's not true. We've taken it perfectly correctly to point 5. These are circumstances and conditions under which the Director cannot be appointed. You state that there can be no face '' which has been convicted of a criminal offence for which there has been an unconditional prison sentence of at least three months or which has been convicted of: the crime of domestic violence, the abduction of a minor, the abandonment and abuse of a minor or gender-determination; the crime of taking bribes or giving bribes; the crime of a group of crimes against semi-freedom, against legal traffic and against humanity... '"You just forgot something that's a growing problem, and it's a human trafficking. In such a place, you can also give the person who apparently has a problem with participation in such an act. Human trafficking is a problem that is relatively nearly put into Criminal Law, but that is why it is not smaller and should not close your eyes to it. My idea and the idea of the DSS is that, since it already exists in Criminal Law, it must exist in this law, because we need to trust the children with someone who needs to be morally and criminally clean.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36890	The 54th Amendment with corrections was brought together by MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Mr. Laszlo Varga wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36891	Madam President, Mr. Minister, my colleague Pastor explained and presented the essence of two of our amendments submitted to Articles 48 and 54. It's a bill of law. I'd like to discuss it a little bit wider. Serbia submitted its application for EU membership on December 22nd last year, and thus unequivocally took the obligation to bring its legislation into line with European legislation. However, it also took the obligation to bring the legislative procedure in line with European procedures and European practices. This obligation to apply has not become legal, but it is certainly political, even moral, and for that reason I think and I say that it would be in full compliance with that obligation and respect. Of course, the legislative procedure consists of a lot of parts and criticism from the European Commission in the annual reports concerns various issues, from the urgency of procedures to the lack of legal debate and some other minor aspects. However, I think it is a much more important and fundamental obligation, when we talk about the legislative procedure, that the procedure be such that, in the end, when one law is passed, the law is not in conflict with another applicable law. I don't think it's a practice in any EU country. It happens in almost all countries to pass a law that has a hole, which is in collegiate with someone else, but that the laws are passed in a way that the proposer is aware of the fact that he is in collapsing with another law, I think it is in no EU country, and neither in candidate countries nor potential candidates, nor should it be a practice. In this case, unfortunately, it's about that. A fellow pastor spoke about how a conflict is created between the law on student and student standards, on the one hand, and the Law on National Councils, on the other hand. If the goal, and this should be the goal, of accepting European values as a priority, then we should all work together more to accept good practice rather than to create bad practice. We must or should take slowly the European way of thinking in terms of accepting or creating compromises when it comes to various issues, compromises in order to avoid any solutions in the National Assembly being made in such a way that, in this case, representatives of the ruling coalition are reputed, because I don't think it leads to good. We tried to find a compromise, and I have to go here to the National Assembly to say that we did it or we thought we did it. Namely, we have submitted two amendments. After that, we also filed the corrections of those two amendments. We did not take these corrections for the reason that we found that we had made a failure or a failure to submit these amendments, but because we had agreed with the Assistant Minister on the text of the amendment that is acceptable to the Ministry. I hope no one will deny my claim. If so, then I think that, and in that sense I would like to appeal, much more rational and comprehensively, would be in the debate or at the time of the vote to accept these two amendments, which, once again, have been made together with the Assistant Minister of Education, because this is a European way of passing the law. On the other hand, and I address the DS colleagues above all, I do not think it is a sustainable situation that the National Assembly, or the ruling coalition, on 31 August, when it passed the Law on National Councils, had one opinion on whether national councils of national minorities should have powers in the process of elections, or the appointment of directors and board members, and in a situation where no day of application in the practice of this law had we, now this law changes that position. If we remember the debate when Minister Ciplic, a representative of the Democratic Party, defended the Law on National Councils, I think it would be odd that the same MPs who voted for the law then, for the solutions contained in the law, now, when adopting this law, have a different opinion. That's odd at least. The argument which rejected this and previous amendment, for the reason that, according to the Ministry, no solution from one law is necessary to transpose it into another law, simply does not stand. In fact, if that argument were correct, then the Ministry was obliged to reject the other three amendments, and they refer to the jurisdiction of national councils already contained in the National Councils Act. So it's exactly the same situation. We are aware of, of course, why these two amendments have been rejected, because the Ministry disagrees with the decision that national councils should have any jurisdiction in the process of appointing directors and board members. If so, then, on the one hand, it should be announced, and on the other hand, it should be put out of force by the provisions of the Law on National Councils which regulate this issue. In this way, the situation is unequivocal and then no conflict is created. Of course, in no way would we want to do so and we would not support it and this discussion is directed towards the appeal that these two amendments still be accepted because we argue that Serbia is not proud of the Law on National Councils and that in six months from the adoption of this law, new laws, in this case by law on student and student standards, later, of course, the future law on elementary school and the law on secondary school, is derrogated, i.e. puts aside the law that was passed on August 31st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36892	Minister Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36893	My friend Varg, I don't think there's any need for such hard words and so large estimates as you've given. The position of any ethnic community and national minority in Serbia is determined not only by one law, but by a corpus of the rights and obligations they enjoy. I can tell you, calling for good European practice, that few countries in Europe that have granted their minority members the rights that the Republic of Serbia has given. In another time period, for example for the 1990s, this was not taken into account at all because the dictionary was then different and the situation was different, so the explanation of minority rights was given to a completely different content. After 2000, things slowly come to their senses. And, really, now, when it comes to minority rights and good European practice, then it has to be practiced, so to speak, this is how it is in that country, and this is how it is in Serbia. If Serbia is behind the country, then me and other ministers should ask ourselves if it makes sense. If Serbia is ahead of this good European practice and other countries, then our minority members should understand, know that Serbia has really given rights such as others are not and that it can be proud of it. I don't think that this government of the Republic of Serbia has ever done anything wrong with either word or part of it for minority members, but calling for good European practice must also be justified by appropriate evidence. There is a Law on Councils of National Minorities and its jurisdiction, and we felt that certain solutions were not necessarily introduced into the provisions of this law. And that's our attitude. Maybe we're right, maybe we're not, but that's our attitude. You know well, if you want to know, that Serbia has the largest number of members of different ethnic groups compared to many other countries and that the Corps of Rights that they have far exceeds not only the good practice of the European Union, because these good practices of the European Union include those countries that do not recognise minority members, let alone provide them with a Corps of Rights, but their mouths are full of minority rights and that Serbia is one of the few countries in Europe that practically shows it and there is no need to talk about the Republic of Serbia in this way. About this ministry and about the minister you can, but about the Republic of Serbia it is not correct, because we in education, you know it well, as well as others, but I have to say to the public, we have eight minority languages that are used, at the level of secondary education of five minority languages, we are engaged in education of minority members and in higher education in our own language. So the state makes as much as possible. We simply estimate that solutions under one law do not have to be content of another law. If we're wrong, then there's someone who'll give their judgment and we'll respect that. If we're not, the laws will apply, both of them. No offense, don't take the right to say he's in college or he's out of college. It determines someone else, not you and not me. That's what we'll see if you talk to that other guy, what that other guy's gonna say. I think it's about time we stopped the practice that was, unfortunately, the characteristic of the 1990s, that we were talking about our country and what we were doing in a way that was not correct. We have twenty and more members of minority ethnic communities, we have rights that others can only dream of, so let's see what European standards are, which are European rights, which is a practice of good practice. No offense, as an MP for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I was also a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, and I know perfectly what good practice is and what rights are and what obligations are. The problem is that in the 1990s rights and obligations have been explained in a way that has been a political abuse of the position of minority members. Now, after 2000, it's no longer a place and now things are slowly coming to their senses. No one can object to this government that any action in any way limits minority rights. Are minority members satisfied with everyone, that's another question. Do they think it's small, I can understand that. Do they think you need more, and I can understand that. But calling on good European practice also includes a concrete example, and it is said that in the country and this, in the country and that standard, the Council of Europe has agreed on that and there is no such thing here in Serbia. Well, that's practice, then. Otherwise, like this, it's an attitude that can, but it doesn't have to be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36894	Mr. Laszlo Varga is replicating, he doesn't think he's well understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36895	I don't think I'm well understood, really. I wasn't talking about good practice in minority rights even though you were talking about it in your replica. We declare this practice in the most positive way at any time. The last chance was today with the European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia. I was talking about other practices, which is a practice of legislative procedure and that's a whole other question. In fact, you certainly cannot set any example, either good or bad, that there is deliberate, or consciously passed law in any EU parliament, and that the law is in collegiate with one law passed only a few months ago. I think, regardless of your position, however, MPs have the right to assess whether one law is in collegiate with another and not, and this right comes from the fact that MPs are passing laws. On the third hand, I would once again like to repeat an explanation that does not require this solution to be taken because it is contained in another law. If this rule or this principle applies, then you should have rejected the other three of our amendments, since it is the exact same situation with these amendments, with these two amendments and with those three amendments that have been accepted. Unfortunately, I would repeat that once again, I think something quite different or third is true, and that is that the Ministry of Education disagrees with the solutions of the National Councils Act. If so, then this should be announced, most of it should be provided and put out of force by this provision of the National Council Act, so that there is no actual cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36896	The People's MP, Jon Magda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36897	Dear President...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36898	Excuse me, Mr. Free Maras is advertising the Rules of Procedure, so I'll give you my word later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36899	Article 27, Madam President, in the best possible way. I'm glad Mrs. Kolundjia is here right now, too, so she can understand what's going on. We just received a report from the Agriculture Committee. I have to distract you, you'll make a terrible mistake, this is a fake. You've been informed here that the Committee on Agriculture has submitted amendments. The Agriculture Committee has never met to date to discuss amendments. Someone on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture wrote the amendments, gave them to the MPs on the Committee on Agriculture... There is an MP from the ruling majority, also present from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, a G17 lady, for the first time heard of these amendments. The chairman, Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, read on our behalf the amendments we learned about at the moment. Decision-making, the way the vote is clearly defined by this Rules of Procedure. No one can submit amendments on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture. Several amendments were adopted, the government accepted them. I only asked the chairman then who wrote those amendments, or who represents the Committee on Agriculture. Mrs. Kolundjia, no one has ever seen those amendments, they've been read to us on the committee itself on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture. In order for one amendment to be an amendment to the Committee on Agriculture, it must be discussed previously, accepted by the members of the Agriculture Committee by the majority. Right? It's never been held by such a committee before. I don't know if I've made myself clear. Someone wrote the amendments, pushed them as amendments to the Committee on Agriculture, although members of the Committee on Agriculture, i.e. MPs, they've never seen it before. It's mostly adopted. But there are people from the ruling majority who were also surprised, even the chairman himself apologized and begged that my objection to the Committee be made to the record. So someone has submitted, whether it's the government or anyone, but don't let us humiliate parliament that way. Who submitted the amendments on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36900	Time! Mr. Zeljko Brestovsky has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36901	Dear Chairman, I am reporting for a replica of this exhibition, because as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I have had the right to propose amendments to the Committee to propose them to the Assembly for adoption. I mean, to be perfectly honest, it was in line with the Rules of Procedure. So I proposed these amendments to the Committee to accept them and the Committee accepted those amendments at its session. Not today, at the previous session.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36902	Mr. Marash, no dialogue. Mr. Brestovsky says he has submitted amendments to the Committee, and the Committee has accepted them as his own. So it's just something I can't doubt. Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36903	I apologize for conducting a dialogue with Mr. Brestowski in this way. I would just like to see when the Committee on Agriculture was held, who scheduled it, which most of it was on that committee when it was voted on the proposals Mr. Brestovsky was now talking about, which are presented there today as proposals from the Committee. What day and most of them gathered? Give me your names. I'll take it if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36904	By the start of the debate, you'll have all the information you need. I totally understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36905	In consultation with the other board members, I know that something like that...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36906	You'll get the information by the start of the debate. Mr. Jon Magda answered for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36907	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the amendment of colleagues Lassla Varge, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond, the Committee's position was also not to accept these amendments, and for the sake of the public, I would just like to read what would look like to this member of the law if we accepted the amendment of respected colleagues. Article 54 reads: 'The Director of the Institute shall appoint the founder after the public competition'. Second position: "The Director of an institution whose founder is the Republic of Serbia appoints and resolves the Government". So it's at the level of the Republic, where the Founder of the Republic is. You are now seeking your amendment: ''In institutions of student and student standard whose headquarters is located on the territory of a local self-government unit in which the language of the national minority is officially used... The relevant provisions of the law governing the competence of national councils of national minorities shall also apply.' So now we're transferring the ball, where it's the founder of the state or the Republic that someone in the local self-government is giving their opinion to the selection of the director appointed and appointed by the government. I don't think that's right, and it doesn't matter at all. I don't think this law is in any kind of collegiate with the National Minority Council Act, but it's just a little bit interpreted in your own way. I, as a member of a national minority and as a man who is interested in the rights of national minorities, think you should not insist on this amendment because it is not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36908	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36909	Dear President, Minister, members of the government, I'm saying that the entire Education Committee was not against these amendments. I voted in favour of this amendment, and I want it to be known that the public knows that not everyone was against that attitude put forward by the Parliamentary Group of Minorities. It's simple, if there's a collapsion, if there's an indiscretion, it can still be corrected. I think the minister and representatives of the government should think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36910	Mr. Balint Pastor has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36911	Madam President, I'd like to use the time I have as an authorised representative. Mr. Minister, I am very glad that you have responded to these views. You're not to me, but you're to Mr. Varga, and that's acceptable. Of course, you don't have to personally answer me for the question I asked you, but it's obvious that, as the people would say, we're not in the same movie. You spoke and expressed your political position on the position of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, you have the right to your position. In parentheses, I must say, we agree with your position. None of us have said that members of national minorities are threatened, that members of national minorities do not enjoy certain rights. We didn't say legal solutions weren't good. We have not said that in certain other countries, members of national minorities have more rights. We did not get into this at all, because, of course, there are countries where members of national minorities enjoy greater rights, and there are countries, and even European Union countries, where members of national minorities, for example. They do not have collective rights, as members of national minorities in Serbia have collective rights. So we didn't talk about it at all. We talked about the fact that we proposed five amendments most well-intentionedly and that in practice there would be no problem with the application of these legal solutions and solutions from the existing, existing Law on National Councils of National Minorities. We simply would not want any government or any other state body to decide whether to apply the provisions of the Law on National Councils or the provisions of the law on student and student standards, so as more appropriate to the Government, to apply either one or another law. We wanted to avoid it and therefore we proposed five amendments, of which you accepted three. The three amendments you have accepted also contain solutions already contained in our legal system, specifically in the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, and therefore there is no argument that these two amendments have not been accepted because you do not consider that legal solutions should be prescribed from one law to another law. This is most likely about something else, it is about the position you held at the Committee on Education session, that you personally, as Minister, do not consider certain solutions under the Law on National Councils and do not consider that national councils of national minorities should have jurisdiction in the process of appointing directors and members of the board of directors of the institution of student and student standards. Mr. Minister, of course, you have the right to your political position, but you have no right, as we do not, there is no right for anyone to ignore certain solutions from the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, whether they agree with certain solutions or disagree. If you agree with the decisions of the National Minority Council, then I do not see the problem with these two amendments being accepted and avoiding a situation in which a conflict between the two laws could arise. I'd like to say to Mr. Magda that he obviously didn't read the National Minority Council Act well. The law does not say that local self-governments give an opinion on the candidate, but states that national councils give an opinion on candidates for directors of institutions and candidates for members of the board of directors of the institution of student and student standards. That solution exists in our legal system. Until the National Minority Councils Act is amended, this solution is valid. I have no right either, no right or no minister, no right for any MP to ignore the solutions that exist in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. There is no right, according to Article 20(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the level of human and minority rights reached, cannot be reduced. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia acknowledges, the minister is right, unlike many countries, the collective rights of members of national minorities. One such collective right is for national councils to give an opinion in the process of appointing directors and members of the board of directors of the institution of student and student standards. That solution has been in place since 31 August of last year. I do not see a legal possibility at all to change that solution by other laws and to put it outside the legal force, because this would mean that the National Assembly reduces the attainment of the level of rights of members of the national communities. It's just what we're talking about. We're not talking about what we'd like to see contained in this law. We are talking about what the legal order of the Republic of Serbia contains since 31 August of last year. If that's the case, and it is, anyone can read that law, then I don't see a chance at all for these amendments not to be accepted. Mr. Minister is right, I can't appreciate it, neither of us can appreciate whether a certain law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. It's a job for the Constitutional Court. We simply wouldn't want to get into a situation where we have to vote against this law, ask for an assessment of the constitutionality of these provisions of the law on student and student standards, because we don't think it would be complete. It would be much more comprehensive to say that these solutions are existing and that we rewrite those solutions to this other law or to find another solution, and to write in the transitional and final provisions of the bill to apply certain solutions to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. There's one more thing I'd like to say, to underline what I just said, is that it's not about the new one, it's about the existing solution. In Article 23(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The law on national councils states that individual legal acts and lists the members of the Law on National Councils, which have been adopted without the appropriate proposal or opinion of the National Council, are against the law, i.e. nothing. By means of a legal diction, this means that any national council may, when any appointment by the Director of an institution of a student and student standard or members of a board of directors, request that the appointment of a director or member of a board of directors be annulled. It's our legal system. We don't think it would be all the same, because, as we told you in the talks, we don't want to slow down this whole system, we don't want to question the effectiveness of the existence and functioning of the system of home students, but we just want the existing legal solutions to be respected in application. In translation it means, since Article 12. The Law on National Councils regulates the jurisdiction of national councils in the field of education, the Law on National Councils says the same thing that we have proposed with the amendment, that national councils give an opinion in the process of appointing directors and board members. If that jurisdiction is not applied and not respected, no matter what is written in the law on student and student standards, any national council may annul the appointment. Only then will the situation arise when the system will slow down, when the system of efficiency of student and student dormitories will be questioned. That is why I appeal to you, Mr. Minister, most well-intentioned, to find a solution by the Election Day, to find a compromise and to find that these amendments, which are not our amendments, are only submitted to these amendments, but are amendments to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, if I may so figuratively express myself, and that these amendments, which are otherwise symbolic in nature, are about giving a non-binding opinion of national councils, that these solutions are also incorporated in the law on student and student standards and that we avoid the possible situation of conflict of these laws, the possible situation of repealing certain government decisions before a competent court and similar situation. That's why I urge the minister to accept our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36912	Mr. Jon Magda has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36913	My dear fellow Pastor, since you called me that I probably didn't read the National Councils Act, to tell you that I know the laws very well, and I know exactly what you're looking for, since I'm a member of the national minority myself, I explained that. There's something else I want to ask you. Is it a binding opinion of a national council in the selection process of a director? The second question, founder as founder, what would he do and what opinion would he ask if we had ten members of the national minority on the territory of a unit of local self-government or province where the same language is officially used? What national council will they ask for an opinion? So that is why we believe that this amendment should not be accepted, because it will make it difficult to elect organs in the student and student standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36914	Thank you. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36915	I just want to say a few sentences, yes, simply, at least here in the Assembly, there would be no misunderstanding between us. Just because we didn't accept the amendments doesn't mean we suspended them or the National Minority Council Act. Please take care of that when you speak publicly. Secondly, we accepted amendments with the correction. Third, the content of the National Minority Councils Act is much wider than you have accepted. That's why we thought, look at how many provisions there are here, what the content of all that is, we simply said that the content of that is in the second law. That's not unusual. Here, we had before noon, last night we had a debate where some MPs complained that we had taken over some of the provisions of the system laws or we hadn't taken over, so it was one of the criticisms that wasn't just happening here or about these laws, but also about some of the other laws, and it wasn't the kind of reaction that you represent. But it's your right, as long as you don't cross the line where, as you say, since I see you insist, politically. It's not a matter of politics. Politics has its own measure. I'm not a man here who deals with politics or politics alone. I'm a member of the government representing the government's views. I speak very clearly and loudly, just because we didn't accept those two amendments doesn't mean that we suspended, nor can we. As you give lessons to others, look back on yourself a little bit, do you have the right to be the Supreme Judge of everything? Maybe we should call a colleague of the Chiplets and let him explain some things to us. I know the MP has the right to speak of everything, but the spoken word has its weight. We gave an explanation, you're not satisfied. The assembly can decide what they want in the voting day. She's got the power to do whatever she wants. We'll respect the Parliament's decision. As a representative of the government, I have expressed my position and there should be no disagreement or Greek words between us. The Assembly may, not only in this law, reject the law, that there is no majority, can accept other amendments, as has happened in the past, so the law is completely amended, so the law is re-debated, agenda etc. I was obliged as a representative of the government to present my judgment on this and I think I exposed it, and I told you both orally and, behold, to the public. I don't think there's anything wrong or anything that could be bad for minority members or for council work. If you value it differently, it's your attitude, but it doesn't mean I agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36916	Thank you, Minister. The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36917	Mr. Minister, I don't feel like there were any ugly words and I don't think I'm the Supreme Judge. I am a National MP and I represent the amendments we have proposed and I call on the Constitution and the existing laws of the Republic of Serbia. You have the right to your position. Your position differs from the views of certain of your assistants, but you are the elder of the Ministry and yours is the last, as far as the Ministry is concerned, that's clear. To repeat what Mr. Varga has already said, we have made amendments, and thus we have demonstrated that we are prone to compromise, that we have no evil intentions over this whole problem. We've agreed with the people of your ministry, we've made amends in terms of how we agreed, so you've changed that answer, which you have the right to as a minister, it's not a dispute and that's fine, but we don't agree with your position. That is why we are calling on other parliamentary groups to support this amendment, so that there is no problem in the application of this law and the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. Yesterday we had a Committee on International Relations of the National Assembly. Mr. Ciplic was present. That's where I was talking about this problem. You can get information from Mr. Chiplic about what he said, because I don't feel invited to interpret his words. I want to appeal once again to you to find some solution to avoid possible conflict situations. As for what Mr. Magda said, I had no intention, Mr. Magda, to offend you and, if I did, I publicly apologize to you. It wasn't really my intention. I just want to say once again that it would be good for all of us to read once again the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, first and foremost Article 12, which regulates competences in the field of education. Because if we had read it correctly, then you wouldn't have asked this question that you asked, because the law that you and I voted for very detailedly regulates what is going on in those units of local self-government where several national communities live and where the official use of several languages of national communities is, and exactly, the procedure for seeking and giving opinions to national councils in those units of local self-government is defined. I am responsible for saying that respect for this law would not reduce the efficiency of the entire system of the existence of student and student homes, and there is no possibility of delaying the procedure, as the law defines the time limit for national councils to give an opinion. The law explicitly states that in this case the opinion of the National Council is not binding. It's a consulting opinion. The ministry has asked for an opinion, national councils give an opinion and then the government decides it's for the best. We just want these two laws out of college.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36918	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. I thank all the participants in a very correct, polite and reasoned discussion. This is how attitudes are expressed, mine don't have to and shouldn't be even alike, let alone the same. I thank the Minister. Based on article 85, I'm setting a one-hour break. We'll start at 3 p.m., by amendment to Article 60. Thank you, everyone. [[After break – 15:00]] I welcome the MPs and continue our afternoon work exactly where we left off. On the basis of Article 85, I would like to inform you that today we will continue our work after 6 p.m., at a point that will be on the agenda or in the debate, but no longer than 2 p.m. Now it's the amendment. Members of the 60th Amendment were submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. There's no answer for word. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 62nd amendment. There's no application for a word. National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 64th amendment. No one's answering for a word. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. There's no one registered for word. On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. The title and subtitle above the 70th and the 70th Amendment with the correction together were submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. The word no one wants. The People's MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 71st amendment. There's no answer for word. The People's MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to Article 72 of the amendment. There's no application for a word. The People's MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the amendment of the 73rd. The word doesn't want anyone. The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 75th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. There's no answer for word. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. There's no answer for word. The National MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 77th amendment. There's no word for it. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 77th amendment. Mr. Avramovic picked up the word and he got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment applies exclusively to the role, jurisdiction and rights of the Director of the Fund. It refers to its appointment and resolution and to the conditions it must meet in order to be the Director of the Fund for the Development of Scientific and Art Juveniles, as well as the public service dealing with the conditions for the award of scholarships to gifted students and students at all. What I have suggested on behalf of the SRS is a stronger or larger criterion (it is good that the minister is there, that he has arrived) that must meet every director of this fund. It is said in Article 77, paragraph 2, that he may be relieved of 'if he is given unconditional imprisonment for a criminal offence in the performance of his official duties'. My amendment, or the amendment to the SRS that I have filed, requires that the measure be stricter – if it is given both conditional and unconditional punishment. Because it's not a division of criminal responsibility whether he committed an offence for the first or second time in the same way that he would be the director of any trust fund, especially this one. This fund is also the new director who does not meet the requirements, and even in Article 53(4), he must not be the director of any kind of infringement. No parole, no parole. It's a violation, and when you commit an offence, especially for misappropriation of property benefits, you must not be acting as director of any trust fund. There's no condition for anyone to commit a felony for the first time or for the second time. Because usually when you commit a felony for the first time, you get a parole, you don't get a prison sentence, but you've done it again. That's why my amendment is fair, because that's how you're going to make it known to everyone that you're trying to fight corruption, to fight those people who might want to get themselves property benefits in an illegal way, through a function, the role of the Director of the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Artificial Youth. This man should carry out a selection of who is a highly gifted student and who is only gifted and who commits all other powers provided for in this law and according to him must be strictly in the beginning of a particular selection whether he has ever committed any criminal offence, whether he is subject to probation or unconditional punishment if he has been punished. He must never, on any basis, be punished for being a director. Otherwise, if he repeats one crime once, he'll repeat it forever. It simply can't be a criterion for someone to be a fund manager, especially this fund that's just being established. It's a practice everywhere in the countries of the region that says that crime and corruption is hitched through its history, through knowledge of its record, the way of life, how it lived and what it was doing and what it recommended to be a director. So there are no parole and unconditional crimes. Crimes are crimes, and therefore this amendment has no justification in Article 53, which is why it was rejected. I mean, if he's got any sense for all those future ministers, that's it. This criterion must be classified by the government that appoints the Director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36921	Thank you. A minute and a half have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic submitted together to the 79th amendment. No one wants a word. On Article 80. The amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment with the correction, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that this amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. To Article 83. The amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 85. The amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 87. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. No one answered for the word. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, which were submitted to the 88th Amendment by the Committee on Education. The government has accepted the amendment. No one answered for the word. Members of the 90th Amendment were submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The word is Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 94. Proposal for a law on student and student standards. Article 94 refers to the way in which the expert-pedagogical supervision is carried out, which, as you predicted, is prescribed by the minister. This is just one of the many members of this bill that obliges the minister to prescribe the way, the conditions, the criteria, the scale points... We're wondering if it's actually possible. Because we all know that these sublegal acts are being prepared by the Ministry's employees. That is why, by amendment, we propose that this role also officially belongs to the Ministry, or to those who work most on it. It is completely inconclusive that the minister himself spends every day making numerous sub-legal acts, that he bears possibly and responsibility for their regularity, and that he takes certain measures as necessary. A wider team of people is a collective in the ministry that also carries the greatest burden of designing programmes, conditions, criteria, measures and other acts. I also have a moral obligation to inform the Minister, first of all as a member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, and in connection with the construction, i.e. the reconstruction of a storage site of hazardous waste near the primary school in Krnjevo, the Municipality of the Great Plan. The chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, has scheduled a session of the Committee with a agenda on the problem in Krnjevo. No government official appeared at that session, and Mr. Dulic told you that representatives of the government would actively participate in solving this problem. None of the inspection bodies or MPs from the ruling coalition showed up. In addition to the chairman of the Committee, only SRS and DSS MPs were present. Mr. Minister, I ask you - how would you personally feel as a minister that your child is going to a primary school in whose immediate vicinity is about 300-400 meters of real storage or reconstruct a building where dangerous waste will be stored, grilled, pi-si-bi (RSV) oil, electronic waste, pharmaceutical waste, chemical waste? I'm sure you wouldn't have a calm conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36923	55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 95. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Jojic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36924	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, the bill has certain shortcomings. I must say that today, Aleksandar Martinovic also noted that some amendments were irrevocably rejected with an unsuitable explanation. Mr. Vice President, you've been a respected lawyer, an expert for years, the minister is also an expert, a doctor of science. I think that in relation to some laws, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and the heroes of the rule of law reform in Serbia have exaggerated. In a short time, hundreds of laws were passed in nine years. However, in countries with a legally regulated system and rule of law, this number of laws is not passed for a hundred years. Mr. Minister, I'm in favour of free school. Because you were in school, I was in school and Mr. Chairman was in school for free. Is there a great injustice here? Mr. Minister, why don't you come to work? You have the right, and the obligation, to propose a law for free education. Therefore, there is reason, because many who today need to study and learn, and especially working children and children of the poor, do not have the opportunity to finish higher and higher schools because there is no one to pay the tuition. School fees are expensive, studies are too expensive, so I invite you and suggest that this tariff, which is not the tariff of attorney, but the tariff of ministers and the tariffs of the Government, be reduced or abolished. Here, you have options, you have my suggestion and suggestions. The SRS will support you at any time that this tariff price list, depending on the situation in which the citizens are located, is in line with the possibility of our citizens. Mr. Minister, may I ask you, will it be equal to staying in private and state preschool institutions? There's discrimination here. And last time I reminded you of that, there is 51 private children's kindergarten in Serbia. These citizens have not been given the opportunity to be present, as are those whose children are in state institutions, and there is no room and many citizens have no place. In particular, in Pančev settlement Kotež 1 and Gornja varoš, I can tell you that the citizens do not have a national kindergarten. But these citizens also pay contributions and taxes that go into the municipal budget, and from the municipal budget, the citizens of Kotez and the Upper City are not given the right to be those who will receive additional costs, as is the case in the state. So on the same street, you have people who are disbursed, and you have people on the other side who are protected and have extra costs for staying in a private nursery, where the budget is filled, but the budget separates the extra cost. Mr. Minister, this is a serious matter. I've got ideas. Only from one kindergarten of 186 citizens. You know what, 186 citizens, and each of them has three or four members, you lose voters, too. What kind of authority am I supposed to support and pay taxes without these being benefits, and I'm not being rewarded? So I asked you a question and now I ask you and I ask you a question – will the citizens whose children are located in Kotez 2 in Pancheva and the part of the Upper City be equaled in rights and obligations, given that they pay equal contributions to the Pancheva municipality budget? 'Cause a lot of people are... Mr. Minister, look over here, we didn't fight to turn your head. I asked the community what it was, they say - the Ministry of Education did not give consent. Is it the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Social Affairs? Please give an answer because they ask the citizens of Panchev and direct us to the Minister of Science, or Enlightenment. I expect you to resolve that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36925	Four minutes has been used since the MPs' time. Minister, please, you just have to sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36926	Not only did I not have a fight with my colleague Jojic, but I have no intention of fighting. To be honest, I expected these questions yesterday afternoon, i.e. last night, when we talked about preschool education and education, and not today, when we were talking about student and student standards, because we explained yesterday, it seems to me, a lot about preschool education and education, and we talked about the state paying for a preschool preschool programme and that it is being carried out in state preschool institutions and schools under conditions that have been fulfilled. Since the state guarantees equality of the form of property, it is allowed under certain conditions to establish private preschool institutions. I'm sorry as a minister of education that we as a state don't have a higher capacity for preschool institutions, but on the other hand, it's also the right of parents to choose which preschool they want their child to go to, probably in relation to the services they expect. We simply are not in a position to solve all the problems that exist, as you say, related to the separation, contributions, rights and obligations of citizens, because in certain issues we either have no jurisdiction or it is governed by some other laws. I explained last night, I had a question from my colleague, Donka Banovic, about what we as a state pay to preschool institutions, and then I presented the relevant information that we are behind on the preschool prep programme, but that we are trying to meet all these obligations. I know this answer may not fully satisfy you, but it is both the legal and the practical state of affairs - that the equality of the form of property exists, that there is equality of preschool institutions, and that the state fulfils its obligations to the state, with a certain price and categories. We have now expanded the category of children who will be the subject of preschool institutions, taking care of economic opportunities as far as possible, but there is no state that can meet all citizens. At least she's not famous at this time and in this world we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36927	Thank you. You have no right to a replica, but you have 18 and a half minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36928	Mr. Minister, I guess I wasn't clear enough. I'm convinced 100% that I can't get out of here without you understanding what it's about. You yourself admit that it is a matter of property and rights under the Constitution and the law that all are equal before the Constitution and the law, but don't let us go past another fact that goes in favor of these people who have nowhere to put their children. Make sure Panchev has enough capacity. There isn't. The only alternative is that citizens have to go there. But it is another decisive fact where the state must take into account the advantages of this private-owned children's facility. The state does not maintain objects or service them. She would only touch and only as much as it takes to stay children. For equipment, maintenance, the construction of these facilities is freed because it's in private hands. And these people don't complain by accident. They have nowhere to go. Here, in Panchev, the father would have to go five kilometers across the river crossing, where there are five spring crossings to cross from one part of the settlement to another, to lead his child. I don't think it's necessary to go around these things and not be deaf or the state to pass this. For this I am to be before the law and the Constitution all equal. Our fellow citizens must feel that the state cares about them, that it has principles, that it has morals, that it has business. We can't let anyone be privileged, and the others don't have the right to do that. My money's on it, and I think you've got options. In Serbia, 51 children's kindergarten is privately owned, and you can, as a resolute minister, whom I respect and appreciate for my efforts in relation to education problems, and pay attention to this segment. If there's anything else I can suggest. Send an emergency inspection to visit primary and secondary schools in the town of Pančevo and in the territory of the municipality of Pančevo - Banatski Brestovac, Ivanovo, Omojica, Starčevo, Dolovo, Banatsko Novo Selo, Kačarevo, Glogonj, Sefkerin. You'll see what those schools look like and what the sanitary rooms look like. In Turkish times, the condition of these facilities was such. Where's the inspection? The ministry has to react because children are tortured there and there are not enough responsibilities for which you as a minister have the right to force them to make an account for the ministry, especially by making a donation. Secondly, the citizens in the budget give their money. Do you take for education both high and high education and this preschool... I'm sorry, you were right, I wasn't here last night. Both primary and secondary and higher schools and high must be protected and someone must exercise control of what is happening there. You have to determine what the condition of these facilities is where the children are and where they stay all day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36929	Thank you. Four minutes and 20 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 95 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dr Nikola Žutić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36930	Gentlemen, Mr. Minister, as it is known, the Government has not accepted this amendment to Article 95, with an explanation that it is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendment to Article 95, which was submitted by MEP Jojic. So, that's a clean administrative response, so I wouldn't discuss it more widely. I'd like to talk about something very important. Namely, I would like to solidify myself with the protest of the chairman of the Committee on Education, Dr. Zoran Shami, to convene the Committee on Education minutes to twelve, i.e. Yesterday at 2 p.m., to consider the sudden amendment of the Ministry of Education to Article 88, imposed by the province's state authorities of Vojvodina, who seek even in the area of student and student standards to achieve as much independence as possible compared to the Ministry of Education in Belgrade. The Supreme Legislative Body, therefore, continues to serve fully the dominant executive authority, which, in addition to all congregation regulations, does not respect certain deadlines, imposes its will through a small congregation majority. However, if I had been the chairman of the Committee, I certainly would not have called such a retail phone session of the Committee, especially since it adopted an amendment that is certainly not of the interest of the Serbian state and people. However, when we were meeting yesterday, we could improve the law by inserting a provision on the need for further regulation of scientific work in the student homes of culture. However, the ministry accepted my initiative to include the word'science' in Article 22, which regulates the effectiveness of the student and student cultural centre, so it will be said in Article 22 that student cultural centres are institutions that provide for the organisation and implementation of programmes in the fields of culture, art and science, in order to encourage cultural, artistic and scientific creation of students and students and to meet their cultural needs. Science is, therefore, only placed third, behind culture and art. I suggested that order be reversed, that science be first. So it was supposed to be consistent to the end. At such a hastyly called committee, it would not take us much time or decision to insert the word'science' into Article 3(6), so point 6) would say that the student has the right to scientific, cultural, artistic, sports and recreational activities and information. It's similar with Article 26, where I'm also supposed to be inserted into the science clause. I believe that this would achieve consistency and ultimately improve and improve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36931	Thank you. One minute and 20 seconds. The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to the 95th Amendment. The government and the Education Committee accepted it, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 95th amendment. The government and the Education Committee accepted it, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become part of the bill. The 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36932	I've filed an amendment to student law in student standard. It refers to Article 95(1). After point 8), a new point 9 is added: "fail to keep records, i.e. water records in a manner contrary to this law". The proposed amendment aims to prescribe the infringements that the legislators failed to install in the infringement provisions, while at the same time prescribing it to Article 45. The obligation to keep records in a dorm and dormitory is prescribed in Article 45. It's a bill, and it's in 12 positions. But when a member of the 95th draft law that regulates and prescribes criminal provisions, a violation of Article 45 shall not be subject to criminal liability. The question is raised how, then, the inspection services of the Ministry of Education will sanction those responsible in the institutions of the student and student standard if there is no record keeping, i.e. a breach of the obligation prescribed in Article 45. The purpose of this amendment was to prescribe the sanctioning of the responsible, but it seems that the Ministry of Education is not in the interest, so the conclusion is that keeping records remains only the goodwill of staff in the institutions of student and student standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36933	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Here you go, Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the amendment that I asked for to be added to point 9 in Article 95(1) after point 8), which reads "not to adopt an annual programme of educational work, i.e. the annual work plan", refers to Articles 41 and 42. The proposed amendment aims to prescribe the infringements that lawmakers have failed with their inexperience to install in breach provisions, while at the same time under Articles 41 and 42 of the bill have prescribed it as an obligation of the institution of the student and student standard. This is an explanation given by the SRS parliamentary group before the amendment of the Education Committee, which is prescribed for the submission of the annual work plan, and then becomes even more illogical that what is provided for in Articles 41 and 42 of the Law as an obligation of the institution, yet with a prescribed time limit, is not taken into account and envisaged as an infringement. So I ask the Minister to reconsider this amendment once again, to take advantage of the possibility given to him by the Rules of Procedure to accept the amendment now, because I really don't think there's any point in predicting obligations if the failure to comply with these obligations is not subject to any criminal provisions. The government's explanation says that the amendment cannot be accepted for formal reasons, as the institution of the student standard brings an educational work programme, not an annual educational work programme for each school year. Then why the amendment of the Education Committee to Article 42 was accepted. The bill which says that the annual work plan is adopted by the Management Board of the Institute by 30 September at the latest? The year to which this annual plan applies, from September to December or September of the following year, i.e. from September to September of the following year. School years? I would also like to say that, as a White Palanca MP, from where students are mostly studying in Nis, no matter how many of them, because they are not far away, they travel every day, I welcome what the minister pointed out in the opening exhibition, that the stone is the basis for a new student home in Nis, but I call on the minister to make additional efforts to at least by the end of his term that construction takes a little further away from the foundation stone, not to be like in my case since yesterday, related to the wastewater processing plant in the White Palanca, which is twice opened and still not working. I would also like to draw the attention of the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister that today's work on amendments is much more effective, because we have before us the opinion of the Government on amendments than yesterday, when we didn't have that opinion. I call for future efforts to make it mandatory practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36935	Thank you, Mrs. Jocic. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 96. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Milan M. Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36936	A colleague, Goran Mihajlovic, submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on student and student standards, which is to Article 96(1) to add a new point 2) after point 1), which reads: "to the board of directors, the institution does not propose a development plan". I believe that Article 96 requires another important position related to the responsibility of the director of the institution, which is not the adoption of the establishment's development plan, which is the obligation of the institution to adopt in accordance with Article 40 of this Law. In particular, Article 40 provides that the Management Board of the Institute, on a proposal from the Director, adopts a development plan for a four-year period and delivers the document after adoption to the competent ministry. As with any organised activity, the work in the institutions of the student and student standards must take place plan and organised, so it is necessary that the development plan of the institution be precisely defined objectives and tasks in the work of the institution, priorities in the performance, complete plan of the activities of all employees, and an assessment of the material, personnel and organisational opportunities of the institution in the planning period. For all of the above reasons, this amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36937	Thank you. One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal representative Dr Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, want to give the final word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Zarko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36938	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As last night, I would like to thank the MPs for their desire to make this law, together with us, as best as possible, to help us affirm this area of student and student standards and general education. It's a very important area. Whoever was in a dormitory or a dormitory or has a child or a relative, a friend, a acquaintance who has a child who uses the services of these institutions, can understand the importance of this law and why this area should be arranged as well as possible. It is not only about students who use these services, but also about the much wider socio-state dimension of the whole issue of regulating student and student standards. Dear fellow Members of the People, for the first time since 1992 we have passed a new law that fully regulates this area, and now it is 2010. We think that the value of this law is that it will solve a number of issues that the practice has already put on the agenda, which we agree with the standards that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted, which is simply going into step with practice, which we are applying international standards relating to the area of student and student standards, which we are creating normative conditions for the question of student and student standards to be resolved in every way in all its elements. The state here is making a lot of money, but I think every penny that's invested in this area and how it's making money, and I think students and students appreciate it. Of course, it is our desire to address these legal solutions and possibly some issue or something that was part of the bad situation in this area. Just to make the whole area better. We planned this year, despite the economic situation, to invest significant funds in this area. I will list only a few projects that will be implemented during this year 2010. Since counterpart Jocic mentioned the issue of Nis, you know it is planned to spend 86m dinars for this year from the EIB and the Ministry's own funds for a project to build a home in Nis. We planned for the Nis home to be completed by the end of 2011. In addition, at the level of the student standard, we planned to perform current repairs and maintenance at the Technical School with the home of students "Milentija Popovic", in Belgrade, the Home of Students of the Central Railway School, in Subotica, the House of Students of the High Schools. Also, in a student standard related to buildings and construction facilities, in Vladimirci, in a secondary school in Požarevec, in the Agricultural School with the home of students "Sonja Marinković" in Svilinc, Agricultural and Veterinary School with the home of students in Prokuplje, Dom of secondary schools in Leskovac, Dom of secondary schools in Vranj, Dom of secondary schools in Belgrade, to obtain a portion of the machinery and equipment for schools in Vladimirci and, at the level of student standard, at the University Centre in Kragujevac related to ongoing repairs and maintenance, also at the Student Centre in Belgrade, at the Student Centre in Kosovo Mitrovica. When it comes to buildings and construction facilities, to perform works at the Kragujevac Student Centre, at the Student Centre in Belgrade, at the Institute of Student resorts on Avali and in Kosovo Mitrovica, and to get machines and equipment at the Kosovo Mitrovica Student Centre and at the Belgrade Student Centre. I've only listed more significant projects. There are many who, conditionally speaking, have little meaning, although for us everything has a great meaning. In order to understand how many countries are investing in this area, I have to repeat again – the participation of students in the price of food and accommodation is 21% of the total price of 18.036 dinars, and student participation is 27.28% of the price of 18.548 dinars. You're right, money isn't enough, we'd love to have it as much as possible, but it's not just about us. One of my colleagues, I think, mentioned an example of an SRS MP at a home in Pirot. It is true, but we believe or not, only recently received the project, a proposal for the situation to be significantly resolved below. By the way, you mentioned 30 students, and there are 50 of them downstairs. Of course we should also improve their living conditions, but, simply, we haven't had the initiative so far, or maybe we haven't looked at it the right way, but that goodwill exists, don't doubt it at all. At the very end, please understand us from the Ministry of Education. You saw, we accepted 15 amendments. We appreciated that these amendments could improve the content of the law. At the beginning of today's debate, I mentioned why some amendments were not accepted. Simply, for a number of reasons, and this is not about the personal relationship of the minister to any of you or the MP, that is, we simply, as we appreciated there are reasons why some amendments can be accepted, so we appreciated and why some amendments cannot be accepted. I'd like you to understand our attitude and commitment. I thank you all once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36939	I thank you, too. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you Mr. Obradovic, Minister of Education, and thank his team. I call upon the Minister of Agriculture Dr. Sasha Dragin, with his associates, to enter the O.R. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Wildlife and Hunting (Statistics) pursuant to Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, on the search in detail of the 8th item of the agenda, the Proposal for a Law on Wildlife and Hunting, in addition to the representatives of the promoters Dr. Saša Dragina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, invited the sittings to attend: Dragan Injac, Mirjana Milosevic, Željko Radošević and Milan Petrovic, State Secretary at the Ministry, Momcilo Mitreski, Milan Stegić and Milos Milovanovic, Assistant Minister, Dusan Pajkić, Director of the General Inspectorate, and Saša Orlović, Director of the Forest Administration. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Dragi Damnjanović, Vitomir Plužarević, Milan Vjeljinović, Momcilo Duvnjak, Milan Škrbić, together Donka Banović and Nikola Lazić, together Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojić-Marković, Dusan Marić, Radić, together Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazić, Siniša Stamenković, Dragan Zivkov, together Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić and Milica Vojić-Marković, Milorad Krstin, Dobrislav Prelic, Vesna Marić, Filip Stojanović, Milan M. Nikolic, together Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banović, together Milica Vojić-Marković and Nikola Lazić, Nikola Savić, Slobodan Vuković, Vladina Ljubojković, Tomislavović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Milovnović, Milovnović, Milovna Radanovic and the Committee of Agriculture, and the Committee of Agriculture. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic withdrew amendments he submitted to Articles 4, 8, 48, 63, 80, 88, 99, 103, 114 and 115, while MP Vitomir Plužarevic withdrew the amendment to Article 4 of point 17 of the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The word is Mr. Vitomir Plužarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's your fault, Mr. Vice President. The amendment was submitted to Article 1 by Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36941	So, if we're listening, I'm reading in a row. From the beginning. You're running out of time, Mr. Sluzzard. The First Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The government has proposed that the amendment be rejected, and the Committee on Agriculture has proposed that the amendment with the correction be accepted. It is the amendment of Ambassador Milan Veselinović, and the next amendment... Does anyone want to talk about Mr. Veselinovic's amendment? Yeah. ) Mr. Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36942	Since my amendment has been accepted, that means the minister has heard some of our remarks. But since Mr. Minister last time to my presentation in the principle of this law has asked me a dozen questions, which I have not been able to answer in due time, I want Mr. Minister to listen to and that we, too, have the right to ask him one question now, and later, when my amendment is in order, I will ask another question. Mr. Minister, does Article 58(2) of this law dictate the Law on the Police and the Code on Criminal Procedure? See Police Act, Chapter IV - Police Authorities, Article 30. Mr. Minister, when we talked about the jurisdiction and powers of the hunters, I was going to draw attention to a man who had to do a hard job, and he couldn't do it. Namely, if anyone were to put themselves in the position of that hunter and get a job there in some hunting grounds, which you're likely to set up for new rules, wait for a group of hunters, have them legitimateized, means to look at their IDs, take them away if they have some game caught, some trophy, disarm them and should report them, and, according to Article 58(2), to bring them to the competent authority. I don't know who's powerful enough to do this, and especially since you're mixing with members of the internal affairs, the police, for no reason whatsoever. Mr. Minister, we watch from day to day, and every ten days, one member of the MUP gets hurt, and that's where somebody's kids work. By law like this, you fight not only a hunter, a hunting inspector, but police and hunters. Under the Law on Police and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the right to bring someone in to the competent authority has only the authority of the MUP. No one has that right anymore. I believe, in particular, that Article 58(2) should not have been found in this law. That's it, so I'll keep going later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36943	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36944	Thank you. I would just like to say that an amendment with a correction to Article 1, submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic, is being accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36945	So the government accepted the amendment of MP Milan Veselinović to Article 1. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Plužarević wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36946	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1st paragraph 2 which we have asked for "a savage in the possession of the Republic of Serbia" to be deleted and read as follows: "a savage is a state property". This comment has been justified, although there has been an acceptance of this attitude in this comment that my colleague Veselinovic wrote in his amendment. I only have a few sentences left to say about Article 1 and they refer to the game population currently located in Serbia. In Article 1, it was necessary to also comment on certain species of game, related to the variety of savages in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and in the subsequent members and amendments I will comment on this decidated, by quality knowledge and comments concerning the statistical and other data available to the hunting profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36947	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36948	I just want to say why we turned down Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic's amendment. Your party colleague Milan Veselinović gave a better definition. In fact, it refers to the same thing, with you saying that game is a state property, while Mr. Vesenovic has submitted an amendment saying that gamer is a natural wealth, property of the Republic of Serbia used under conditions and in the manner provided for by this law. I think it's better defined, and for that reason we accepted your colleague's amendment. I hope that doesn't bother you and that's okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36949	Thank you. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have not informed you that MP Sinisa Stamenković is an authorised representative of the PUPS parliamentary group on this agenda, MP Arpad Fremond is a minority group, MP Dejan Radenkovic of the SPS-JS, MP Milan Dimitrijevic of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Zoran Mašić of the parliamentary group "Forward, Serbia" and MP Vitomir Plužarević of the SRS parliamentary group. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36950	Dear Members, I have proposed in the amendment to Article 3(2) that in point 4 the words "and other purposes of importance for hunting development" be deleted to point 8 and points 9) and 10) become points 8 and 9). Regardless of all the linguistic and humanitarian landscapes in which it is wrapped by those involved in it, hunting is essentially the killing of savages and it is unacceptable to promote the same, and even less so to undermine that promotion under general interest and create legal frameworks for the development of the same. Let me just ask Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, it is my opinion, and so are those people who are not in this matter, as I am, when they read this law, and most fellow Members of the People's Parliaments will agree, that you have taken this law of savagery and hunting unrelentingly. Your sentence in the principle debate when you say you've been preparing this law for five years, it's very vague to me. If this bad law has been prepared for five years, it probably takes 55 years for a good law. I can't understand that there are over 70 hunting associations in Serbia, that there are over 100,000 hunters, that every hunter has at least three firearms, that's 300,000 people under arms, and that's how bad the law was made. And my opinion, as my fellow MP Milan Veselinovic said, was that you were able to fight with this law, and you were able to put your hand on everything and manage it. The only thing that's safe here is that with this sport, or whatever you call it, only the rich will be able to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36951	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Just report it, please. Put your card and press this middle button.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36952	It's okay now. Thank you very much. We're talking about the Bill of Wildlife and Hunting. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 paragraph 1 point 8) to change, and I suggest that it reads: 'wild gamers are wild species of mammals and birds that can be hunted in accordance with these laws and regulations adopted under the law'. The reason why the amendment is not accepted is: 'Amendman is not accepted for the reason that the bill is not the subject of a game that can be hunted in accordance with this law, but rather for the protection, management, hunting, use and promotion of game populations in hunting; protection, conservation and improvement of wildlife habitats; protection, regulation and maintenance of hunting sites and other issues of importance for game and hunting'. This explanation why the amendment was not accepted does not apply to my amendment. Here, I'll prove it to you. My amendment speaks of Article 4, which is the meaning of the term, where attitude 1 says, "Some expressions used in this law have the following meaning." So point 8 of the bill says, "The savage is a certain species of wild mammals and birds by law." Over. I wanted to simplify, to better understand this point 8) and it was nothing malicious. It's simple to define it more precisely. So the amendment solution is more cellular and simply defines the term savages better. I don't think accepting this amendment would make anything worse, when we talk about terms and meanings, in Article 4. I believe that more precisely, more precisely defined terms, attitudes or members of the law would contribute to a better understanding of the laws of many less skilled people who touch this law. So it's a clearer definition. So I'm surprised by the government's position not to accept something which, in my opinion and the opinion of the vast majority, and also by the expert public, is good and useful, something that does not destroy the concept and meaning of the law, and rather determines the meaning of the term and the proposal in this law. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36953	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36954	I would like to say to the honourable Member of Skrbić that he is definitely right, that what he said better defines the concept of savages. However, since it is not in line with the practice of defining the same term in several laws, since the term “wild game” in the Assembly was adopted in 2007 through the Law confirming the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, etc. The Berlin Convention, and that term and clarification of the definition of game is there, it is not appropriate that it is also in this law. So you're definitely right, with that already defined, but in the Berlin Convention, which was adopted in 2007.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36955	National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Mrs. Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36956	My colleague Nikola Lazic and I have submitted an amendment to this Article 4, which is a rather large member, but here are the lists and explanations of various terms. It seems to me that we have as many as 43 expressions that have been explained. However, it is no wonder that this law is trying to cover a very specific area, so people need to have such explanations. Our amendment refers to item 12, where you define who is, or what is a hunter, and you say, "The hunter is a natural person who has acquired a hunting ticket for the current hunting year, meets the conditions laid down in the regulations governing arms and ammunition and has been trained to hunt savages." With the amendment, we suggest you delete "it's trained to hunt savages" and instead write that it's the face that passed the hunting exam. I think our explanation is good, and I'm surprised you didn't accept the amendment, because the term "skilled to hunt savages" can be interpreted as you wish. It's very subjective, someone will claim to be trained, others will claim not to be. So I'm surprised you didn't predict that this is the person who passed the hunting exam. You can't leave it at will. I don't know who to judge whether someone's a hunter or not, and thinks that person is qualified or not. You should have defined this better or written that it was the person who passed the hunting exam.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36957	The word is Mr. Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36958	I thank you for this amendment, but just for getting to know the problem, to say that a hunting exam is only one of the conditions for a person's ability to hunt. This person must also be adequately trained for hunting activities - to identify species of game, health, wildlife, age and category of game in hunting, game count, game protection, game saving, work on improving hunting and hunting facilities in the hunting grounds. As you know, every hunter has some obligations he has to fulfil in a hunting society so he can deal with hunting.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36959	Mrs. Banovic is not well understood. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36960	No, I'm well understood. The hunting exam and now it covers those elements...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36961	Then you have no right to a replica, so it's from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36962	I'll use group time. The hunting exam, and now contains mostly the elements of these things that you've listed. A hunting exam doesn't just mean checking in on a shooting range whether someone can handle a weapon or not. So all of these elements that you've listed, and that takes care of the game and that he knows and the hunting grounds, etc., contains a hunting exam.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36963	The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36964	The DSS continued to trace this amendment, which was previously explained by Mrs Banovic, because Article 4 where the meaning of the term was given, after point 12, does not mention at all what a hunting exam was. In the further text of the law, you have a precise, several times referred to it as a hunting exam, but in terms of terms of terms here, in terms of terms, you simply skip it. I think it would be a good idea to find it here where it belongs, because it can mean a lot of things. Here, you and Mrs. Banovic are now plowing over something that is generally known, because decades before that hunters have passed the test for carrying guns and knowing savages and everything else, so it's not unknown. That would make it very good to have it inserted after point 12) to say what a hunting test is. We've given one of the ways to define it, that's how they check that the face is qualified to hunt. I don't think there's any reason you shouldn't accept this amendment. He goes in favor of a law that is bad and chaotic, but it can make him a little better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36965	Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36966	If I'm not mistaken, arms handling is defined by another law, the Arms and Ammunition Act, so this is only one part, what's related to the Hunting Law, or the passing of a hunting exam.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36967	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic first, and then I'll give you my word again. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36968	Thank you, Madam President. I will use this time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. We try at the beginning, on the first members, to point out some gaps in defining some concepts, but this is certainly an opportunity to say a few things about the law itself. This law had a very strange way to come to this debate. The public debate has passed in an atmosphere that media and certain organisations say was not good. When it's not a good atmosphere of public debate, then you get such a bad bill. I will remind the Serbian public of what happened at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine on 27 December. You had delegates to the Hunting Union. They were supposed to be 197, almost 200, and there were about 138. Some things were voted for, like, 104 people. A part of the meeting was left unsatisfactory by some things, dissatisfied with the presentation of this law that has been spoken of for several years. Some hunting areas, such as the forest area, responded after the law was put into effect. On the other hand, we had in principle a confirmation from the minister that there was support for hunting associations and hunting organisations. I think it's a little different. It's just that in such an atmosphere, there's been a bill that tends to be broken down, that what's been created for years, more than a century, doesn't exist. That there is no Hunting Union, that there are no hunting associations, that there are no hunting societies, that exclusive decision-making rights have exclusively a minister. But it's not the minister, there's someone else behind the minister. Now we're going back to that story about the big land surfaces purchased by certain tycoons. The essence of the future state of hunting in Serbia is that whoever has the money will be able to hunt without restrictions. Whoever's been hunting so far can accidentally pack up guns, put an ad in certain newspapers, what kind of hunting papers they are, that these guns sell, they won't be needed anymore because this law in some of its provisions, and I'll talk about it when they come to order, clearly determines what the positions of both the Hunting Union and the Hunting Society are, what they can do, what they won't be able to do, and they won't be able to literally do anything, so this is practically the end of what was called hunting in Serbia. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the Ministry has not taken into account the experience of such a bill that has already happened in some countries, that it has no insight into what has happened to certain hunting sites in the republics of the former Yugoslavia, in some neighbouring countries in the environment and what these hunting sites look like today. So it's fate. In the principle debate, I said I had a dilemma about whether this could be fixed by amendments. It can't be fixed by amendments. That's definitely a bad suggestion. If that were the case, they confirm two more facts. When you enter a principle debate about a law, and it doesn't get green light on the parent board, what does a man think about that law? Why didn't this law get a green light on the parent board? Is there an answer to that question? There is. The law is bad. There, that's the answer. It happens that in the debate in particular trying to get certain amendments ironed out, to insert some amendments that essentially do not change the law, but it is just to throw the dust in the public's eyes, as something happened, some amendments were accepted, the law is good and the law should be passed. That's not good, definitely. It's not the law that's going to promote money. It won't solve anything. On the contrary, great harm will be done to the nations and to the nations. It will be devastated and in a few years, the hunt in Serbia will no longer be.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36969	The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. First of all, there is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic's word on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36970	Thank you, Madam President. I called earlier because I don't hear what Mr. Secretary says from here, and I'd like to hear it, so I didn't understand the minister's response to the amendment Mr. Dimitrijevic and I submitted. But what the answer might have suggested, at least like this, is that what we suggested, that in this part of where you give and explain the terms, must be a hunting exam... And what's perfectly clear, we're dividing what's a hunting test from a test that's being passed so a man can get a weapon to wear and use it in the hunt. The hunting exam includes everything you've explained here, and the protection of savages and the traits of savages and the protection of offspring and everything else. That's why we insist that this Article 4 enters our clarification, to introduce the term hunting exam, to explain what a hunting exam is, that it's a way of checking that a person is qualified to hunt, and I'd like to hear the answer, because I'm really, really sorry, I haven't heard it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36971	The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Mr. Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a very quality comment on Article 4 paragraph 1 point 15). We have suggested that this attitude be deleted and we propose a new formulation, which we consider to be more quality, i.e. to give the law some symmetry, which in the future will be able to act positively. I would now refer to a few facts relating to the Hunting Union of Serbia, which is that Serbia currently has 7,452,950 hectares, and hunting areas have 6,889,433 hectares. I deliberately commented on this, to highlight the importance of the Hunting Union of Serbia. This importance is not seen in this point 15 in relation to the amendment that we have submitted as the SRS. Now I'm just going to read as it says in the law: "The Hunting Union - the Hunting Union of Serbia, the Hunting Union of Vojvodina and the Hunting Union of KIM established to achieve the objectives of hunting," and we propose: "The Hunting Union and hunting associations - the Hunting Union of Serbia, the Hunting Union of Vojvodina and the Hunting Union of KIM, as well as hunting associations, as part of the folk hunting tradition in which citizens are joined to cultivate, protect, hunt and use savages." This may be invisible at this point, but it gives perspective because we think the Hunting Union and hunting associations must be part of a traditional mile of hunters in Serbia. Mr Dimitrijevic mentioned on 27.12.2009, when a Assembly of the Hunting Union of Serbia was held at the Veterinary Faculty, where there was a reaction, i.e. a contraction concerning both this law and all the events in hunting, which is that the assembly barely or perhaps even under some unknown circumstances adopted the Statute of the Hunting Union of Serbia with 104 votes. So what we are commenting on in this amendment makes sense, and I think the minister should accept this formulation that we propose in this article, regarding the Hunting Union of Serbia. We know that the Hunting Union of Serbia under very difficult circumstances and participated in the drafting of this law on game and hunting. For the sake of the public to say, there is no unity in the Hunting Union of Serbia and in that assembly, which took place on December 27th, there have been some shifts, i.e. they have left this assembly of gentlemen hunters from the forest, rask and goldibor areas and thus made known to the people who prepared this law and the profession and learn that this law and all that is happening to this law will not be quite as realistically designed as the designers of this law imagined. I hope that in some time soon, this law too will have to experience certain changes and changes. It is likely that something will move in the interest of the Hunting Union of Serbia, in the interest of hunting associations and all associations that will deal with hunting and this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36973	Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MPs Milan Veselinovic and Dragi Damnjanovic in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 paragraph 1 point 34, and I suggest that it be changed. In order for this to be clearer, for the sake of the public and the citizens, I need to read first what is provided for in Article 4(34). Point 34 says: "The areas outside the hunting grounds are the areas of a narrow area of cities in the Republic of Serbia without suburban settlements and highways." I am very surprised that this definition has passed and that they have not accepted this amendment of mine, where we say that this point 34 should be changed and that the areas outside the hunting grounds are the areas of inhabited areas covered by the regulations in the area of urbanism and highways. I just want to remind Mr. Minister that many cities have been declared in Serbia, but there are also municipalities and settlements where hunting surfaces cannot be defined. We know that one member defines that the hunting surface can be educated 200 meters outside the inhabited area. I'm surprised that this amendment of mine isn't accepted, because it improves this law and this member, and nothing changes in terms of the very concept designed in this article. I still want to remind the minister. On Sunday, a group of Golia hunters was held, where about a thousand hunters were present and the president of the hunting union of Serbia was present. It's strange that you didn't attend. There have been a lot of comments and stories about this law and I can tell you that more than 90% of the hunters who spoke about the law have expressed a negative opinion. That's why we, Mr. Minister, were right when we said that this law, in this form, was not to be found in the assembly procedure. But you will probably use your majority and adopt this, and as my previous colleague said, he will quickly experience changes and additions because he will not be able to apply and live in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36975	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36976	Thank you. Once again, I would just like to remind you that the Ministry of Agriculture worked on this law in such a way that we specifically requested that this law not enter into the assembly procedure until the moment the hunting alliances gave written consent to the text of the law. I see that you are entering into a debate about how the Hunting Union has adopted this law or how many of them were in favour or against. I neither influence the formation of the administrative body of the Hunting Union nor have the right to interfere in any way in its work. What I am interested in is the opinion of the adequate and responsible persons with whom we have conducted the dialogue on this law. For that reason, the moment the hunting alliances agreed that the bill was adequate and should be referred to the government, and later in the Assembly, we sent such a proposal, with which they agreed, to the Assembly. As you can see, we don't have any problems, based on consultation with professionals, accepting all those amendments that these professionals think will improve and make it better. We'll also work on other laws, and that's why I don't think it's appropriate that we speak here at all in which way and who and when and how within the Hunting Union has been given the opportunity to lead the Hunting Union or not to lead it. I think we should just leave it to the Hunting Union. It's his job and I, as Minister of Agriculture, don't want to get involved in his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36977	Mr. Veselinović has a word. From the time of the parliamentary group? Mr. Veselinovic, just tell me the basis of the call.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36978	Mr. Minister, according to your story, this law was written by the Hunting Union of Serbia, and I'm sure the Hunting Union of Serbia doesn't work well and has problems there. This has not been discussed in the Hunting Union of Serbia and in hunting associations. The president of the Hunting Union of Serbia was criticised for not being found appropriate for at least one hunting paper or the Hunting newspaper to publish the draft of this law and to refer to hunting associations for opinion and objections. Then I'm sure this law would get quality. The president of the Hunting Union of Serbia has openly said, not to me but to the mass of hunters – twice I have prevented this law from being found in the procedure, I have knocked it down for the third time, I am no longer able to do so. There was no public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36979	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36980	I'm sorry, but it's really not right for you to talk like someone forced the President of the Hunting Union to put a signature on the bill. Please don't talk like that. I have no interest in giving bad law to the congregation. It's in my interest to have a consensus on the law we're discussing today. In no way did we want to influence the Hunting Union. The moment they thought the law was good, and they participated in the drafting of this law, they repeatedly met with representatives of the Ministry and the task force who participated in the formation of the bill, gave suggestions, suggestions were accepted and the moment the agreement existed, the law was proposed to the Government, and now it is in the Assembly. So please don't talk about this this way, because it's not appropriate. As you can see, every amendment to this law is very much to be accepted, all that we will contribute together to make this law better, better quality and to the service of hunters in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36981	National MP Milan Avramovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36982	I'm using the MP's time group. Mr. Minister, if you had an agreement with the Hunting Union of Serbia and this agreement was made with the task force, why did you throw out on your ministry's site another version of the law, and then the Assembly of the Hunting Union was again scheduled, so there were debates and discussions and conclusions on what measures would be taken to ensure that what is on your ministry's website was not in the process? That's one thing. The other thing, which is very important, you had one draft that was tied to the task force and the Hunting Union, and here came the other. The President of the Hunting Union has sent amendments to all MP groups other than the SRS, and the ruling majority, in particular the G17 plus, given that in such a way it will come faster to the goal of the amendments being incorporated into the law so that the Hunting Union has the conditions it could have had before, before the adoption of this law. These amendments were not adopted, they were neither the subject of the debate, so the President of the Hunting Union realized that what you agreed was not in the law, and this specifically refers to those parts of the bill where they lose the powers they have so far. If you were doing something with the consent of the Hunting Union, why didn't you accept the amendments or why on the committee that was and where was the representative of the Hunting Union you didn't accept his suggestions? That's a logical fact. Then we wouldn't have this kind of debate. If you're making a new version of the law every time, and you've said it yourself for five years, then you know that you don't have consent to the law today, because just over the past week, from the debate that was in principle, you're collecting signatures by hunting alliances throughout Serbia to knock down and this bill. That's what you'll get at the Ministry's address. I know that I'm not a hunter, not you who should be doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36983	Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36984	I think we're coming to the contradiction of what you and your predecessor said. First, the question was, why didn't it come out in the paper? I really don't publish the laws in the papers. We publish draft laws on the official government website. The bill is subject to change and evolved until the moment it gained the consent of the Hunting Union. When he got the consent of the Hunting Union, he was in the government and later on in front of you. As for subsequent amendments, any amendment that will contribute to the improvement of the law we will accept, but don't talk about the amendments to the Hunting Union. The Hunting Union doesn't make amendments. Amendments can be made by MPs and there can be an amendment that has been defined by the Committee of Parliament. I'd like to see what the amendments are and whether we've accepted them or rejected them. We don't recognize the amendments to whether they're from the Hunting Union or not. We know the amendments made by the MPs or the committee of parliament that deals with this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36985	Thank you. Mr. Plužarević has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36986	Mr. Minister, just so you have the right information right now. The hunting union of Serbia has sent amendments to all parliamentary groups except the SRS. There are 13 or 14, some MPs of the amendment. These amendments were not accepted by any of the parliamentary groups, so the Hunting Union, probably thinking that you would accept these amendments, thought that the draft of these amendments would be corrected and probably given a transitional grade in hunting associations and hunting organisations. Let me just give you the original comments. I come from Sremsky County, and the hunters mostly have no idea, they don't know what's going on, what the law is going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be. Most of the time, hunters are losing this traditional comment they have had so far and I am telling Serbian hunters that after the adoption of this law on game and hunting, the traditional comment of all the hunters in Serbia is lost. And the hunters have about 100,000. They will most likely remember 2009 and 2010 because they will still be able to hunt in the old, traditional way of hunting, which has been nurtured for hundreds of years. Poor Serbian hunters. They don't know what's going on with this law. Do you know who knows? He knows only a certain group of people who run, or who were in the Hunting Union or some associations. And I know that probably your associates... You're not satisfied with this law either. He's been imposed on you, too. Who imposed this law on you? I'm not asking you to tell this audience right away, or Serbia. You'll probably be in one of your comments, when you get these comments from my colleagues, which is that the signatures will be collected, that you'll be asked to amend this law that doesn't benefit hunters, and you know how many hunters there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36987	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36988	This law has been subject to 80 amendments, all together 54, because some amendments match, the same are contained. Of those 54, we adopted 10. I repeat, I really don't know which of these amendments have reached the MPs through the Hunting Union. I know the amendments to the Members of Parliament, or the Committee of Parliament, which deals with this subject. Ten were accepted, 44 were not accepted. If you look at those who have been accepted, you'll see they're very heterogeneous, they come from different parties. You understand, I'm really going to do everything I can to make this law better, to improve it, and that this law, which is to be voted upon, and I'd like it to pass, to the greatest extent adopted, to the satisfaction of the entire hunting organization. I want to say again, please don't debate how and who is in the Hunting Union... That's their thing. You're talking about unsatisfactory hunters, and these same hunters chose their leadership in the Hunting Union. These people didn't fall out of the sky there. These people there have been chosen by some, I suppose, democratic means, by the choice of a hunter's representative in the Hunting Union. That's what I'm affecting, not you, not any of us, and I don't think this is the place to debate. What's important is that as far as I'm concerned, there's really no background story. The law needs to be better, we try to make it better, you see that we accept amendments equally from both the SRS and the SNS and other parties. It is absolutely not important who has proposed amending the law, or amendment, whether it will make the law better. If so, as far as I'm concerned, every amendment is welcome and I sincerely thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36989	National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36990	Mr. Minister, just to clarify some disagreements, which is that our hunters, which you and I are talking about here today, were not informed, had nothing to be informed about. Do you know what level hunting associations and these hunters work at? So they weren't. And we have asked you to reach every hunter in good time and in due time for information on what this law provides. It's not people's fault they chose. They all choose there the president of the association, the secretary, etc. There wasn't a chance. Here, let me tell you, if at the top of the Hunting Union of Serbia, at the Veterinary College, there was a split of the Hunting Union, or a split of opinions, and if some people in certain areas were unhappy with all these comments, it's your fault. It's nobody else's fault. And why is it your fault? Because you have to follow this law completely, from idea to implementation into action. If you leave it to the verse and if you let someone else do it, then that law has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36991	The word is Dr. Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36992	Of course I'm familiar with what happened at the Veterinary College on December 27th, but it would be nice if you did, too. So, on December 27th at the Veterinary College, it was not debated at all about the Hunting Law, but was debated about the Statute of the Hunting Union of Serbia. That's two totally different things. I don't know who prepared your material, but he didn't prepare you well. That's not what they were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36993	Mr. Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36994	Here's the deal, Mr. Secretary. I've been prepared by people who are in the course of all these activities, that's number one. Number two, we know what was going on at the Veterinary College, we know that the Statute of the Hunting Union of Vojvodina was passed, but count on it to be just the product of all these previous comments that we're talking about today. The statute of the Hunting Union of Serbia aims to accept these comments passed by this law on game and hunting, and hunters from these areas have not accepted the comment until the end, as they should have accepted. So they weren't unique in that. Otherwise, for your sake, I've been hunting for a long time, for at least 42 years I've been hunting, and I know what the Unity of the Hunting Union of Serbia means. And I know what hunting union means, because I've been living and working under these circumstances. It's never happened before... You know, hunters are solid, they have their ethics, their logic, their economy, they think one more quality way than some associations that are in Serbia. You guys need to know this so I don't have a spot on me like I didn't get ready. I've prepared well, and count on us to comment until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36995	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36996	First of all, the statute does not discuss the law, the statutes do not give rise to the law. If there was some contradiction in the law that should have led to the change of statutes, then I guess the law was passed first, and then, under the law, the statutes were aligned. So, don't you think it's a little illogical that a new statute was discussed on December 27th because a new law would be passed, and in what form would the law be passed if any other amendments were accepted? Don't mind, but I really don't think these two things have anything to do with each other, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36997	The Committee on Agriculture submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36998	Let me just say the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u36999	Thank you. I find that the government has accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37000	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say I'm a little surprised during this debate. I thought this was supposed to be a debate about the protection of rabbits and deer, and she turned into a debate about the protection of poor hunters. I have proposed an amendment that I suggest that Article 4 be completed by a new point to define the concept of hunting. The proposed definition is: "The hunt is a work involving cultivation, protection, improvement of the game populations and their views, hunting and using savages". I find it illogical for us today to discuss a law on hunting in which we have definitions of 43 concepts and expressions used in this law, and we have no definition of the very concept of hunting. I think she's necessary, because we have a different, completely opposed interpretation of this concept. The first is the interpretation of those who view hunting as human activity and whose primary goal is literally the daily struggle to preserve the increasingly endangered species of animal and bird species. Sadly, and this shows today’s debate in the congregation, they are obviously in a large minority. The second is the interpretation of those who are obviously engaged in hunting for mere pleasure, for the purpose of coming out in nature, for the killing of animals, for the sake of skewers and boilers. In their case, hunting is clearly understood that way. Their greatest triumph is that they can boast that they killed a certain animal or a bird, and the bigger or less the trophy, the bigger their triumph is. In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, the Government wrote: 'Amendment is not accepted for the reason that hunting as a work of general interest is much more than the solution offered and' 'it cannot have a definition, 'because it contains, among other things, all the elements of sustainable wildlife management, sustainable and rational use of space - wildlife habitats, in a way and in a way that sustains and promotes the vitality of game populations, habitat production capacity and biodiversity, thus achieving the fulfillment of economic, environmental and social functions of hunting'. What doesn't make sense here? The government first says that hunting as an action cannot have a definition, which is completely illogical because there is nothing that cannot have a definition, which cannot be defined, and then in the follow-up sentence itself gives the definition of hunting. It's one illogicality, and it's used as an explanation for refusing my amendment. If the definition of hunting I've offered is bad, I'm not running away from being bad, then I don't understand why the government didn't put this definition in the bill. I repeat, it's illogical that we have a law on hunting without having a definition of hunting. The second thing I want to say is that there's not enough here to be said about dealing with murdered savages. I'm specifically referring to the introduction of game in public. I understand what hunters are lying, I understand what they're killing, but, frankly, it's incomprehensible for me to be a hero. I believe there's no MP here who's never seen a picture I'm going to describe for once in his life. Mostly the hunter gets up in the morning, puts on a hunting uniform, takes a gun in his hand, goes into the woods, leads more reinforcements in the dog's eyes, and, as Mr. Krasic says, kills an unarmed rabbit. That a man forgives him, however, then hangs that rabbit on the belt of hunting uniforms or moves him over his shoulder and goes down the street through the city or into the village through his brother-in-law. I really think it's time for us to banish these images from our streets and alleys. I'm saying this for the reason that five or six days ago in the Great Plan, I attended one such painting, where a group of three or four hunters caught an animal, it seems to me that it was a fox, they brought it to the park in front of a photo store, and there they made the whole circus photographing with this murdered savage. I was particularly defeated by the fact that children from a nearby elementary school, 20 of them, came running here, and watched it all. I think the law should regulate the obligation of hunters to spare us such triumphs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37001	Dr. Dragin has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37002	I listened very carefully to your remarks, and I also listened very carefully to your colleague's remarks. On the one hand, it's about protecting tradition and the way you hunt in Serbia by your colleague, and on the other hand, you're all talking about some things to erase. I agree with you that this is an inappropriate approach and for this reason the law is passed. As far as the problems you've mentioned are concerned, it's a problem that defines the so-called problem. The hunting code. That code is an object that will define the Hunting Chamber. I definitely agree that's something that needs to be done. If hunting could be defined in one sentence in such an easy way, we probably wouldn't have the whole law. For this reason, hunting is described as action through a large number of provisions of this law and, practically, it is not possible to simply give a definition of hunting. We have explained in our response and the explanation of your amendment very much, briefly, possibly and insufficiently, for which reason your amendment would not be appropriate to stand as a definition, but we also think that hunting is best explained through a large number of members of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37003	The word is Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37004	I'm sorry, these members of the law you're referring to explain all these 40s and some terms and terms. Therefore, it was not necessary to explain them in particular by Article 4. I think you should agree with me. Secondly, as far as the hunting code is concerned, I hope I don't have to convince you that hunters will adapt that hunting code to their interests. I believe that the executive and legislative authority dealing with this problem should take care of the interests of hunters, but I think they should primarily take care of the interests of savages and the condition of the habitat in which that savage lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37005	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37006	I'd like to point out one contradiction during the debate again. On the one hand, it is accused that the government wants to embrace the decision on the allocation of hunting grounds and that this right is taken from hunting alliances and that it is not appropriate because the Hunting Union knows best how to divide those hunting grounds, and on the other hand it is implied that hunters should not be allowed to make their own code because they will do so in an interest contrary to some civilizational norms. I think that's rather contradictory. We should view hunting organization as a set of mature people who do this work in a responsible way, who choose their bodies in a democratic and adequate way. I think the best way for this sphere to live in the way it's supposed to be is by law to define everything that it can and can't do and to let hunting alliances do their job in the interests of Serbian hunters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37007	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Mr Dimitrijevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37008	Mr. Minister, we have suggested that points (1) and (2) be deleted in Article 7. What do those points apply to? They refer to the fact that the conservation and breeding of game until the end of the renewed procedure confers a right on the management of hunting, tendering, in the event that the right to manage the game is not exercised through public advertising, public undertakings and companies shall be. We've suggested that those two attitudes be deleted. What am I saying that for, Mr. Minister? If you listen to me carefully, I will give an example of how the public enterprise has managed a part of the hunting grounds taken from the Black Summit Hunting Association in Mali Zvornik, it is part of the Guča Mountain, and with great pain and effort this hunting ground has been returned to the hunting association. After the bossing of the "Serbishum" Public Enterprise, when the hunting site is taken over, what was found in the hunting grounds can be called the "despair". Snowflakes - zero, wild pigs - zero, some predator, pheasant - zero, rabbit - three pieces. It's the management of public enterprises. Is that how you predict that public enterprises are in charge until the tender is over? When we talk about tenders, Mr. Minister, you know, we have experience with how to run a tender when you in the last government were the Minister for Environmental Protection. So you remember the story, when you were minister, about the tender and the capture and counting of mosquitoes and ticks in January. Is that how you think you're making a tender? Is that how you run the state administration? It's a way of leading. You said everything, Mr. Minister. As you answered this question by noding your head, that is the fate of this law and that is the fate of hunting in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37009	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37010	Dear Mr Dimitrievich, as I assume you well know, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management intends to make this law the best possible. I didn't have a general debate about the law last time I wanted to comment on your statements. I find your insinuations extremely inappropriate. I've done my job responsibly, and I can prove to anyone that I've done this job responsibly, now and in the previous ministry. What you're implying is more about you than about me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37011	Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37012	Mr. Minister, I'm not insinuating anything. I am talking about the parliamentary questions that have been addressed to you, to you and to Mr Dulic, and I am talking about the answers you have sent to the MPs. And, Mr. Minister, unlike you, I've never had the state's money and, if I have the chance, that's the way I'm never going to have it. You know, the words people say can't be more honest or more well-intentioned than those who pronounce them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37013	Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a law on game and hunting. Article 7 refers to certain activities of public undertakings and companies in the management of hunting grounds. Otherwise, the SRS believes that this job should only be carried out by public undertakings and therefore we suggest that Article 2 be deleted in this article. What is the essence of the difference between the government and the SRS with regard to this law is that the government wants to concentrate a number of powers in the ministry's competent services, then redefine hunting in Serbia through the Ministry of the Hunting Chamber, while the SRS represents the opposite position, of which is also the issue of authority and business of public enterprises, in the first place I mean "Serbian people". In Article 7, you place the hunting grounds as a temporary guardian until you complete the process of dividing the rights to the hunting grounds, more specifically until you find a buyer. But since this customer, you call him the hunter's user, the catcher's boss, we can only assume. I am afraid that even in the event of the lease of the rights to the hunting grounds, we will have a mirrored situation as privatisation was carried out in Serbia, which is in fact turned into a reckless robbery. Now, after five years, individuals remembered that they allegedly annul such privatisations, when everything was robbed, carried away, resold, and when no one alive could bring such a company back to its original state. That's how it's going to be with the grant of the right to command the hunting grounds. Who will be responsible if the owner of the hunting ground destroys the game fund, ignores or destroys the facilities or infrastructure, already existing within the hunting area borders? The government has reportedly fenced itself against possible abuses of future users by providing adequate guarantees prescribed by Article 44, and these guarantees are at the level of the initial funds I hunt down protected species of game. Now I ask you, who can guarantee that the true numerical state of the game will be displayed? Just as companies in Serbia were bought with hidden business space, with attractive land plots. In the forest, i.e. hunting grounds, it is best to counterfeit the investment of funds, start with showing the consumption of food on feeding grounds, the introduction of game, the provision of veterinary assistance, the raising of game funds, the cleaning of snow on road-to-road communications in hunting grounds or road-to-road operations, etc. I worked in forestry, and I know about how individuals could fake it and benefit from it. Now, according to 2nd, it turns out that a public company needs to resuscitate what the previous user has ruined and manage the hunting grounds until the right to manage the hunting grounds is granted to a new user, who can again destroy everything that's been fixed. How correct it is to what generations of hunters and foresters have been building for years, I can understand those who deal with hunting and who are directly connected to these activities, and here, above all, I mean "Serbishum" and national parks.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37015	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37016	You've just mentioned that for this reason there are guarantees, which are activated unless someone who manages the hunting grounds is responsible. In addition, you should know that the hunting ground is being created and that the number of savages is being controlled by a hunting inspection, so it's not a process that does some face that's already in the hunting grounds and manages the hunting grounds. There's monitoring going on, and that way you know exactly how much game you have and what the value of the hunting base is. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37017	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. The government proposes that this amendment, with a correction, be adopted, and the Committee on Agriculture proposes that the amendment, with a correction, be accepted. So he becomes an integral part of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37018	I would like to make a statement on the amendment, with a correction, to Article 7, which was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37019	Thank you. So the amendment became an integral part of the text of the law. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Draga Damnjanovic and my littleness have submitted an identical amendment to Article 8 and we have proposed the same comment proposed by the gentlemen of the Hunting Union of Serbia. I have to read it in order for the public to know, that is, that the Serbian hunters know what we are proposing in Article 8, which regulates certain affairs of the Hunting Union. ''The Hunting Union, member of the International Council for the Hunting and Protection of Wildlifes (hereinafter referred to as 'CIC'), is doing the following tasks... '"and it's numbered. Finally, it reads: "To carry out the tasks referred to in points (1) and (2) of Article 1 of this article, the funds shall be provided from the Budget Fund for the Development of Hunting of the Republic of Serbia, and on the territory of the autonomous province from the budget fund for the development of the hunting of the autonomous province. Public enterprises and the hunting alliance are obliged to co-operate on all common matters in the field of hunting and to provide each other with information and information concerning work." We propose that this amendment be accepted, as well as the Hunting Union and some expert committees from the Hunting Union of Serbia and the experts from the hunt, so that we believe that it should be accepted. About this member, just to make some hypothetical comments about the savage in Serbia. It is related to the Hunting Alliance, since the Hunting Union has once projected the development of hunting in Serbia for some period ahead or behind us, and mainly those in the Hunting Union of Serbia and in professional analytical estimates have come to some of the knowledge and data that I am about to read, or to inform the public. In particular, we are in Serbia, and it is about these funds, budget funds and giving, we have or should have about 670,000 rabbit savages, and the intensity of the Hunting Union and the complete profession to increase that number to 1,300,000, to 100% increase that fund or the population of rabbit savages. It's supposed to be about these funds, too. I'm saying all this in favor of thinking and commenting about these funds. This law doesn't need to be passed just because of hunters, it has to be supported by a large amount of money. What kind of money is that? Now you'll see when I read it, or when I give you comments about these kinds of savages. We have about 600-700 thousand rabbits in Serbia, but there is an intensity that, if it is done in quality, if all those preconditions that are necessary in the hunting grounds are met, that we in Serbia have 1,300,000 copies of rabbits and then Serbia can consider that in this European circle, or in a hunting circle that should give a positive effect. We've got 800,000 Fazana. These phasers are mainly produced in Serbia's territory in various phasers, not to advertise these phasers. There is an intensity to increase the number of 800,000, and to what number, it should reassess the Hunting Alliance in collaboration with hunting associations. We've got about 300,000 birds in the field. It is located at a biological minimum now in Serbia and needs to be protected and such conditions should be produced in nature and hunting grounds to increase it, so that it can reach a 500,000-seat figure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37021	On the head and the title above Article 9 and Article 9... (Vitomir Plužarevic, from the place: I did not finish. You're not finished? I had the impression you were done.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37022	Please, Madam President, pay attention. I don't usually talk much in the Republic Parliament. I see you're in a hurry and you want us to finish it as soon as possible. No, we'll finish this tonight when we're done or tomorrow. Slowly, to hear citizens, especially hunters, because they're interested. Here, now they're calling from the field saying we should say everything we're saying. The silver game, and it's about this point and this budget comment that is necessary to secure it, currently has about 100,000 copies. They're estimates that can be real, and they can be flat-rate, but there's about 100,000 venison venison. There is a gender ratio that is needed to be one to one, etc. The intensity is that in Serbia, the deer is increasing to 300,000 copies. Since you, Minister, are from Vojvodina, you know what it's like there. Now that population should also be transferred to other spaces, here under Belgrade, to be in Šumadia, Kosmaj and here where there are conditions, to increase from 100,000 to 300,000. That would be a density of 4-5 throats per square mile, and it's all connected to these hunting development funds. Then let's move on, the wild pig is in expansion right now. It is estimated to be around 18-20 thousand in Serbia. The intensity is to increase, with caution. What caution? This caution should be to monitor the dynamics of the population of feral pigs in favour of agriculture, so as not to cause damage. If the number increased, then they would do damage to the agricultural crops. There's supposed to be another profession, the Hunting Union, hunting associations, veterinary colleges, the Forests, etc. The intensity is that there's about 30,000 throats there, too. And it's connected to the budget, which could be some kind of hunting income. Let's move on. Now we come up with the highest quality ones. It's a deer, a mountain emperor, as hunters and breeders call it. Currently, we don't know how many deer there are in Serbia, estimated at about two or three or five thousand, but if we make the right law on game and hunting, the intensity is that there should be 24,000 throats in Serbia's territory, in areas. I'll do it for the hunters, but also for the people, to get some information, to say, the area of Buck should have five thousand throats, Banat 300 throats, two and a half thousand throats, Smederevo and the surrounding area, that base, 500 throats, forest base thousand throats, Valjevo 100 throats. It'll please four thousand, this is the same interesting region for a deer game. King 2,000, Nis 1,500, Leskovac 500, Negotin 4,500 throats and KIM 2,000. It would be somewhere around 24,000 deer savages that would have to be established in that area if we passed a real law on game and hunting. So, if. We've got more, since the deer is our indigenous species, we've got a game like a deer shovel, a mufflon, a giant, a bear, etc., and we've got a white deer. It's the same comment, but I won't hold you back now. Anyway, these species and this sortiment and this amount of game would have to, if we wanted the game and the law on game and hunting to be in the right place, to establish both the financial and economic and the complete attitude of profession and science under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37023	Mr. Služarevich, I'm sorry you didn't take my session as extremely serious. It's perfectly fine to take a break from the story of the July game, but you had to let me know that you did it for a reason or for some other reason. You haven't spoken for more than 15 seconds, and I really thought you were done. I apologize to you if you misunderstood me. I'm in no hurry. I'm here to do quality work and I'm glad there's a dialogue on this agenda point. The title above article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. That was it? Oh, no? Do you have another amendment? Yeah. ) Just to ask if you have used the time of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative. You've spent time with an authorised representative and three and a half minutes from the time of the parliamentary group, so your MP group has 51 minutes and 30 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37024	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 9. It's a very important and interesting member of the law, which regulates hunting chambers. There are a lot of comments about these hunting chambers. What are those comments? That it's a new imposition on hunters, hunting associations, the Hunting Union and all that's connected to it. What kind of coercion? The imposition is such that hunters will now have to provide financial resources to support that future hunting chamber. This future hunting chamber has the same blood count as all agencies or various accompanying entities in ministries, administrations, etc. The SRS has always commented and said that these agencies are just ballasts, that it is a burden for both the budget and the ministries and overall for society. And these chambers that come now as unseen, unverified... Why do I say "unchecked"? Because the law hasn't regulated it yet, as far as professional chambers are concerned. There are chambers, but they have their way, their synchron, which leads to a specific goal, and this is without synchron, without comment. So many hunters don't even know, and that doesn't even know what's going to happen to these chambers. He only gives some principled principles and comments, which do not give an answer in the literal sense of that word. Perhaps the billmaker has some comment that we as readers of this law do not know, what these chambers will be able to give positively to hunting and hunting associations and hunters at all. In Article 9, we suggested that this "founding" be deleted and that these affairs of the Chamber be accepted by the Ministry, i.e. the Hunting Union of Serbia. And, uh, about that later. So, if it was or what would be tied to those chambers. There's no money at this point, no opportunity. I'm just going to remind the ministry gentlemen, hunters are paying 100 euros today, which can cover all the costs of a modest hunter. Now these chambers can call for three more euros or five euros, or some dinar, but mainly it will be a burden and impose on the budget of that otherwise poor hunter. I've got to fix this picture of the hunter's code of conduct. You know, Serbian hunters have their own style and style of dress, etc. There are anarchic individuals who train in various uniforms or scrawny savages, but these are individuals we normally fight and do not want them to be such hunting teams in Serbia. It is known what the hunter's code is and what he should look like and what he should do with savages and where it is delayed, etc., there are also freezers and veterinary services. We know all that and we know how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37025	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37026	Thank you, Madam President. There's no minister in the O.R., but there's his representatives, so I guess they'll pass on what I'm asking. Article 9 provides for the establishment of the Hunting Chamber. The text of the law reads: "The Hunting Chamber (hereinafter referred to as the Chamber) is founded". My question is, who is the Founder? The Ministry, the Hunting Union, who? Who founded it? Or do they join together and form themselves? How? Come on, answer me. I'm an ignorant hunter, I want to know about the chambers and ask, "Who founded the Chamber?" Do you know who founded it? Is that what the law says? It doesn't say. The further dilemma about the Chamber is "For the establishment and start of work, the Chamber of Funds is provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia". Now, here we are, again the Serbian budget. Show me now in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, where these funds, in which position, which function, which divided. Do you know anything about that? From what means? It's from the budget. I'm asking you what position the Ministry of Agriculture is. It's not there. It's a story of budget spending, of spending taxpayers' money. You're going to build chambers, you're going to make these, you're going to do that. The funds go to chambers, agencies, and what are they going to do? I know what it's gonna do - hiring party aids. It's from the top of this chamber.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37027	On the title above Articles 10th and on Article 10th of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the title above article 10 and to article 10 to be deleted. The SRS is generally against, and has been before, in previous draft laws, the formation of some agencies, professional chambers, societies, workshops, etc. The formation of the Chamber of Hunters of Serbia is a new imposition, according to our people, on the villa. By forming the Chamber, they lose the meaning of the Hunting Union of Serbia and the Association of Hunters throughout Serbia. The formation of the chamber is a new kind of agency. In fact, it's some pandemic to the Ministry, but the goal of forming the Chamber is to accommodate some party comrades, like-mindeds, to license someone there, to adapt to some European standards, etc. In fact, it's a direct imposition on hunters and, in general, on the whole of society in us. That's why we're against these chambers, because we believe that the Hunting Union of Serbia had jurisdiction and could have done all this work. Normally, with a certain professional strengthening of the Hunting Union itself... (President: Please press again.) [[Disabled microphone.]] Madam President, don't be too hasty, because the minister is in no hurry either. Here, he's gone, and we're waiting for him. I'm sorry, but to study this matter really well, and so do you. You may be out of this area, but it's serious matter. The fact is, there are nearly 100,000 hunters, so they deserve attention, to explain what we wanted and intend to do. Namely, all amendments to the SRS were tasked with improving this legal project. I said before, it would have been much better if he hadn't found himself in this form in front of the MPs. The minister is not here, he owes me an answer to the first question, and I have the right to ask him another question and I expect his answer in the course of the debate on these amendments. The question concerns Article 22 of this law, where it is said to be prohibited, and then it is said, under point 7, to harvest and mow agricultural machines that do not have built-in exorcision devices, i.e. the fear of savages. I ask Mr. Minister - who will provide the farmers, or the peasants with silencers on tractors, motorcycles, motocultivators, so they don't scare the game there? The penalty provision provides that in case this farmer, a farmer, is found on his farm, and if he uses this agricultural machine without silencers, he will be punished with 30-50 thousand dinars. I'm asking the Ministry and Mr. Minister to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37029	National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that the amendment be accepted, i.e. it has become an integral part of the text of the law. The title above Article 11 and Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37030	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, unfortunately, isn't in the O.R. My amendment, when it comes to the Bill of Wildlife and Hunting, is that the title above Articles 12 and 12 are deleted. Why was the amendment rejected? I will try to briefly read the argument of the Government: ''Amendman is not accepted for the reason that the proposal of the law of the Hunting Chamber forms, as well as in other types of activity, as a professional organisation, in order to achieve and protect the rights and interests of hunters and to promote hunting in accordance with sustainable management of wildlife populations, of general interest... which represents the protection of the professionality and expertise of hunting workers, and on the other hand the protection and safety of hunting users in relation to the management of hunting grounds'. So, if I understand correctly, and I think I am, the Chamber will be above all else and they'll wonder about everything. The SRS believes that the education of the Hunting Chamber is unnecessary, and here is why. It's actually a principled position, because if we take Article 11, which speaks of the affairs of the Chamber, and Article 12, which I'm talking about now, which is about the organs of the Chamber, we'll see how great these are obligations. Article 11 states that the Chamber performs the following tasks, and states ten points: 1) determines the rights and duties of the members of the Chamber and adopts the Code of Professional Ethics; 2) registers and records of all members of the Chamber; (3) issues and withdraws the licences and keeps records thereof; (4) conducts an extraordinary check of the quality of the professional work of the licensee; (5) proposes to the Minister responsible for hunting activities the amount of the hunting fee for the use of the poaching species of game and the level of the hunting ticket; (6) transmits in disputes between the members of the Chamber and between the members of the Chamber and the users of their services; 7) keeps records of the disciplined measures imposed on the members of the Chamber; 8) determines the level of membership for the members of the Chamber; 9) issues of legitimacy and identification number of the Chamber member who has a licence; 10) performs other tasks provided for the Statute. Article 12 states that the Authorities of the Chamber are the Assembly, the Management Board, the Supervisory Board, the Chamber Authority which decides on the issue and withdrawal of the licence, the Ethics Committee and the President... What am I saying? These jobs require a large number of employees and will serve to accommodate party members, with reasonable doubt that they will be well cared for, and Mr. Minister will not be able to prevent it. I think this decision is hasty. In his earlier presentations, the minister said, and we understand him, that within his ministry, since 6% of the budget is foreseen and 3% is received, he can't do much. Although he had countless ideas, he was limited by financial means, no matter how hard he tried. And Zarko Obradovic, minister of education, said that out of 100% of the budget allocated to the Ministry of Education, 97% is working on employee earnings. It remains 3%, with which almost nothing can be improved, no matter how hard all these ministers and their cabinets try. And it needs to be made clear. So, for the ministry that belongs to our minister today, who I'm repeating right now, is not here and I don't know who I'm talking to, 6% is predicted and 3% is received. It's hard to be smart with small means. And it should be made public that he is not given 6%, but 3%. We of the SRS continue to argue that before this law was passed, conditions for the adoption of the forest law and the agricultural land law, which would have been closer to defining some views, and thus this law, which we are discussing today, would have made full sense. We'll establish something in the form of chambers, to supposedly improve something, and in the Chamber there will be representatives of the ministry. It's simply impossible for this new chamber to know and know hunting better than the Alliance or society. I've said that before. The chamber will finance itself from the budget, even at first, as indicated, and, if for no other reason, then in its lack of money in which the state is located, we are entering another funding problem, which in later work will be the most borne by the hunters themselves, who are still this poor in various ways. In addition to my weight goes Article 14, which speaks of funds for the work of the Chamber. It's good writing, and it's clear, when it's read, what it's about. ''The Chamber shall obtain funds for the work of membership fees, fees for registrations, fees for the issue of licences, fees for the issue of copies from records, gifts, legacy, donations and other sources, in accordance with the law'. The chamber will be alive in about a year, if I understand correctly, and by then you would have to think carefully about the very organization of this chamber. When we talk about this law, and we have pointed out the adoption of forest laws, which will likely define the role of the Institute of Forestry, as it stands, as the professional, planning and supervisory institutions of the state administration in the field of hunting, it is already making the work of the expert public feel that they will not be competent for this job. That's not what I'm saying as an expert on hunting, but it's from discussion in principle to these particulars, there's been a lot of complaints and complaints made by some who understand themselves and are legally involved in this, and we're just saying what the public has delivered to us. We think it's still a professional public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37031	The title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Krstin, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, today is on the agenda of the draft law on game and hunting in particular. As you of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management noticed today on the Committee on Agriculture, where we discussed amendments, the SRS and the SRS parliamentary group requested that members of the 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14. be deleted. To erase members and titles. Now I'm going to tell you what's the reason why we're asking these five members, who make up the future hunting chamber, to be wiped out. In article 9, you said that funds are provided in the RS budget for the establishment and start of work. Then, in Article 14, you say that the Chamber receives funds for work from membership fees, fees for registrations, fees for issuing licences, fees for issuing copies from records, gifts, legacy, donations and other sources, in accordance with the law. But let's go back a little bit, from a few years ago to today. When certain ministries propose some law, they also put agencies into it. These agencies have a director, a certain number of people who open jobs, and then, based on obtaining information of public importance, we get information over time that these directors have a salary of 200-250, workers 100 and some thousands, then the SRS parliamentary group comes to be an opponent of the creation of hunting chambers. I repeat, in paragraph 9, you wrote in paragraph four that funds are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the start of the work of the Chamber. So it's just for founding. But if we go back, to those agencies, we see that these agencies are financed from the budget, from the citizens of Serbia. Minister, I'm just asking you to make a promise that the Hunting Chamber, except for the establishment, will succeed on the basis of article 14, which says that the Chamber is making funds for membership fees, registration fees, license fees, fees for issuing copies from records, gifts, legacy, donations and other sources in accordance with the law, that this will really be so, that it won't have to be left out of Serbia's budget and that it won't fall into Serbian citizens' pockets. The chamber does not make up a few people, there are authorities of the Chamber - the Assembly, the board of directors, the Supervisory Board. It's a larger number of people, who will probably have their jobs there and their own income. This is why a couple from the SRS parliamentary group asked us to delete the members of the 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14, fearing, as I said, not to go through with the agencies, to employ people who receive huge salaries. And I, as I said, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, am asking, Mr. Minister, that what you have stated here be done. Nothing more. Only to implement the final position in Article 9 and to implement Article 14. That's all I ask of you and nothing more. And then you'll convince us that the Hunting Chamber is really going to finance itself from what you stated in the last paragraph of Article 9 and Article 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37033	Mr. Minister, come in. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37034	Dear Mr. Christin, you have my most sincere promise. Since the Chamber is not an agency, the Chamber is a professional association, only for the creation will it receive the support of the state, because it is necessary and will then be financed itself. This will by no means cost the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37035	The word is Mr. Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37036	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the latest news has arrived at the moment. I will read it, and it is about whether the Hunting Union of Serbia has given its consent to this law, and from this comment you will hear and see that it has not made any comment. Now listen to me very carefully. The latest news, he said -- Serbian Hunting Union President Zoran Popovic publicly said yesterday that Minister Sasa Dragin is a liar and that he, Zoran Popovic, had never agreed to the proposal for a law on hunting. (Chairman (Gordana Komic): People's MP, I ask you to pay attention to your quote from the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I warn you, if you quote other people's words or speeches whose content is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that you should be fenced. If you're going to do that, you'll be able to keep reading a quote from someone else's words. If you won't, I warn you, that's the reason for speaking out of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go. I've fenced myself. These aren't my words. We've got this material right now. He declared "The Voice of the Public" Slavisa Tanaskovic from Jagodina. I have a complete comment on this. I'm fenced. This isn't my comment. I just got that, as a folk MP, I'm putting this on the air, so we can have a complete comment on the story of the law and the Hunting Union of Serbia. You're going to get this, you're going to be able to draw certain conclusions from this, you can also work on this latest news, you can sue etc., but here it is, and I had an obligation to put it on the air.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37037	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37038	I'm sorry, let's get this straight. First thing, please listen to me carefully, here are the minutes of the October 21st 2009 meeting, who was all present. Please see this. If you would, please, approach, just to see the document. (National MP Vitomir Plužarevic delivers material to Minister Sashi Dragina. ) The minutes of the meeting, who is present, including the President of the Hunting Union. You see, he agreed, too, with his signature. Another thing I'd like to say is, this is a copy of the daily list. To tell you the truth, I'm a serious man. I think the way a discussion is being held in the Republic's parliament should be at a professional level, adequate, with facts. Because, as I have already said two or three times, we sit here to be at the service of Serbian citizens, in this case at the service of a group of people who are engaged in hunting, and to help make a law that will be best. The agriculture ministry has shown by its work that there is no problem in accepting suggestions and amendments from any parliamentary group. Find in your MP group a man who has spoken for any help, information, or in any way contacted the Ministry of Agriculture without the Ministry of Agriculture being extremely collegiate, came to the meeting and did everything in his power to help that person. Please, I really ask you not to talk to me like this or the people sitting here, because, as you can see, I don't know what the situation is with some other resolutions, but when the Ministry of Agriculture is a law, there are absolutely everyone who makes up the agriculture ministry team, because we are doing this for the good of Serbian citizens. Please don't talk to me like this, even if you quote something, because I can also quote things, but they're not worthy of these respectable houses and these respectable institutions. I ask you not to use words like this in further discussion, because I will really be forced to ask all my associates to leave this respectable home, because we really didn't come here to be mocked, but to debate the things that matter to the work and life of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37039	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37040	Mr. Minister, I had no intention of offending you personally. I was just going to let the public know there were a lot of problems. Or, as you can see, I delivered it to you, even silenced the diction when I commented on that one word, I didn't want it to... You're laughing at the Ministry, but, frankly, that's exactly how I commented. We'll keep working on the amendments, don't leave, stay here and listen, because this is very important for the hunters.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37041	The National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the Chamber, from Articles 9 to 14, we've heard a lot of it. This last member is talking about funds for the Chamber's work. We heard from the Minister that the Chamber will fund itself, that the Ministry will only participate in the establishment, to help them start working. The SRS is in principle always against the establishment of any agency, council and committee. No law has come to the congregation without the establishment of any agency or chamber. But, well, time will show if the Chamber will be able to finance itself. Article 14 specifically states that the Chamber will finance itself. I think that's how the Hunting Union of Serbia was abolished, but good. The fact is that this law has been working for five years, that the first version of the law that came into congregation procedure is not good. It is also a fact that because of the situation in the Hunting Union of Serbia during 2008, hunters and the Alliance were badly characterised in the original version of the law and the state decided to literally break the organisation by a new law. There was no mention of the Hunting Union of Serbia or the Hunting Associations. Only companies that will run the hunting grounds were mentioned. With all that you've said, that you've had contact with the Hunting Union of Serbia, and that we believe that it's all gone that way and that you've accepted a large number of their suggestions, we're afraid that many hunting associations in the future will practically be left without their hunting grounds, without their home territories where they've hunted, and there are more reasons. The first is that we think that the Agricultural Land Act should be entered into the procedure and passed. Now I'm going to ask you specifically what will happen to the land in hunting sites, where cooperatives have been sold, especially cooperatives sold to foreign citizens. Will hunting associations be able to hunt in this area, or will the new owners, who bought these agricultural enterprises, have the right to prevent buying, or renting, hunting grounds? There's a lot of loose ends here. To begin with the assumption that the law is relatively and well, there is another option, Mr. Minister, where you have the exclusive right, which is to change a lot by sublegal acts and regulations. We don't say this by heart. That's what we had a chance to see, first of all, when it comes to subsidies. By regulations, you took off subsidies to farmers at 30%, and to agricultural pensioners who declared themselves non-commercial and were supposed to receive aid from the state of 40,000 dinars you completely abolished. So we rightly suspect that this is just one mask and that, in the end, the Hunting Union of Serbia and our hunting associations will be damaged in any case. But we are here to remind you, first of all, that, when this comes to life and when it's applied in practice, let us remind you of a lot of things, and hopefully at the end of this month, given that the spring set is starting, you will allow us to ask you a few questions about agriculture, because we think that at this point it may be the strongest in Serbia and that we will get adequate answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37043	Two minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group, and the SRS parliamentary group has another 34 minutes. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37044	First of all, I have to tell you that the Agricultural Land Act has already been passed. So we shouldn't wait for the law to be passed, he's already passed. The Agricultural Land Act does not define cooperative property. This is defined by the law on cooperative societies, which is not in the jurisdiction of this ministry. The form of property over land is not in any correlation with hunting associations and territory in which hunting associations deal with their work. So in that segment, I really don't think I can even answer your question, because there's no correlation between those things that you said in your presentation. As for the rest of your discussion, she's not the subject of this session. I will be very happy to answer all the questions you are interested in, but at a session intended or, if you wish, right after this session is over, we can talk about it or get answers in writing to all your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37045	Mr. Flea, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37046	Obviously, Mr. Minister, we didn't understand each other. I'll try to be a little more specific. For example, you have one local community or municipality that covers 10,000 ha of land, the social enterprise is privatized, under its auspices is 5,000 ha of land. So there's still 5,000 ha of land left in that municipality. Will the customer of a social enterprise or a.d. that exclusively deals with warfare and covers 5,000 ha have the advantage of renting a hunting ground compared to the hunting society that was in that territory? So, will hunting society have the advantage of taking the hunting ground? The particular question is, say, hunting sites that are... In particular, the Karajordevo Military Institute hunting ground, will it be the subject of a ten and 20-year lease? I think I've been more specific and I'd like you to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37047	Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37048	This amendment, submitted by counterpart Maric of the SRS, deserves a comment, but certainly deserves a comment and a whole chapter IV. It's game protection. In Article 20, the last position reads, "The hunting of savages does not apply to the tiny game of artificial production on the game-hunting polygons." Mr. Minister, what's a tiny game? Have you heard of the binary nomenclature? Is it in the previous law, 1993? There is, Mr. Minister. And since he's not here, that's probably what your songwriter needs to explain. Why is it so controversial for this Article 20, that hunting does not apply to small game from artificial production on polygons? Is it possible, Mr. Minister, that someone should write a sentence like this? What does that mean? This means that these polygons, regardless of the reproductive period, will be entered by a group of hunters or callers, because you are, in fact, pushing those callers to enter those designated spaces, and that indiscriminately, without any control, what is unpopular and what most people rightly threaten is killing savages. Now, that's one goal of this law. Is it possible that someone could write a sentence like this and put it as a legal provision? When we talk about it, Mr. Minister, when something goes wrong, it can't stand right. It is wrongly set in Article 4, where you have defined in point 36 the game hunting polygon, that it is a "specially arranged hunting area in the hunting grounds of the hunting grounds for small game from artificial production". Mr. Minister, I have to ask you. If that's the case, if it's a polygon and if it's artificial production, does that mean again that a group of armed men will enter and shoot indiscriminately? What's the point then? The goal is murder. Is there any chance of a savage in that polygon? There isn't, Mr. Minister. Why are you forcing hunters like this to be classified in what most people are threatened with? Is there some kind of responsibility for words written like this? What does this look like? Where is the human relationship to wild animals, and what is the difference between artificially grown and natural? And what happens when some pheasant or rabbit from that hunting grounds goes to an open hunting ground? How is it different? The question arises whether anyone has even read this law and seen if any members make sense to other members at all. You see, when it goes wrong, when you don't listen to advice, then you get these provisions. I must read it to you again, Mr. Minister: "The hunting of savages does not refer to the tiny game of artificial production on the game hunting polygons." So, no loose ends, get into the fenced polygon, kill and do whatever you want. Is that the law? What does this provision look like? Pull him out of the procedure. This isn't right, this is embarrassing, this is heartless what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37049	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37050	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 22 speaks of bans to protect savages. There are 11 points in total, and I counted exactly, there are 30 bans. It is forbidden to persecute, hurt, harass rabbits, deer, giants and other savages, it is forbidden to burn grass, even weeds in hunting grounds, only among the bans there is no ban on killing. I have submitted the amendment to the following content: "It is forbidden to kill savages, except in order to maintain an optimal number of these species of savages in a particular habitat and kill savages at the time of hunting on that species of game and through the quota prescribed by law." The essence of the amendment is that the law makes it clear that savages are allowed to kill only at a specified time and only in cases where there are extremely justified reasons for it. The first reason is the propagation of a certain kind of game to the number when that game will begin to threaten another species of game or habitat. The next reason is in cases where gamers cause unbearable material damage to nature, crops or households. The third reason is in cases where the gamer is sick. The government rejected this amendment with the following explanation: "Amendman is not accepted for the reasons that they are banned in order to protect gamers in an indirect or direct way more precise, professionally and wordingly regulated in the Bill's proposal, and that is in the members" and lists 11 members of the law. "We note that the term "kill" is not a hunting termology, but a "fire", so that the said term is unacceptable by hunting experts." I'm undermining this by hunting experts. Mr. Minister, all of these are prohibited under Article 22, and there are 30, as it stands in this explanation, more precisely, professionally and terminologyally correct, therefore more detailed and elaborated in a series of other members of the law. Then we only have two logical solutions, either that the government deletes Article 22 and the prohibitions proposed to Article 22 or that it accepts my amendment prohibiting the unwarranted and unjust killing of savages. This is exactly the same case as that argument when I asked to define the concept of hunting. I must also comment on this hypocritical argument by the government, where it is said that it is not appropriate, from the point of view of hunting experts, to use the term "kill," but an acceptable term to "shoot". Because hunters, the government claims, don't kill animals, they just shoot them. It sounds better when you don't call a murder a murder, but you call it another way, no matter what the result is in either case, because the animal is eventually dead. I think when rabbits, foxes and deer in the hunting grounds hear this news, the hunters will no longer kill them but simply shoot them, that they will fall from their hearts.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37051	The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37052	Mr. Minister, this also applies to the protection of savages by dogs and cats without owners or without the control of owners. That is, in principle, fine, but we have suggested that you add only one word in this amendment and that Article 29 of Article 1 reads: "Dogs and cats without owners or without control of owners who are certainly found to be a direct threat to game, can be removed under the prescribed conditions from the hunting grounds", and Article 2 remains the same. For what? Because there may be a situation where a hunter shoots a hunter's dog. Do you know what kind of trouble it is then? These are difficult problems. This is inaccurate. So there's no such thing as bad intentions, there's just an attempt to point out that there's got to be certain evidence that that's the case. Otherwise, without it, you'll see, there'll be miracles in the hunting grounds, and that's not good. And I don't see why you didn't accept this amendment. On the other hand, the minister prescribes conditions and ways to remove these dogs and cats. It's not good for the minister to prescribe, that's what the Ministry and his services should do. It's not the Minister of God's day to prescribe all possible laws, but I guess there are services, there are people who are employed at the Ministry who will write that down, people from the profession who deal with this kind of problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37053	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37054	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29. Proposal for a law on game and hunting. In the amendment, I ask that the word "Minister" be replaced by "Minister" in the position of the 2nd said member. The ministry is a state body and obligations from this, but also some other members are its obligations, not the obligations of the minister as an individual. What are you talking about in Article 29? This is a member who protects game from dogs and cats. I'm just interested in how you're gonna protect the savage from stray dogs, when you can't protect people from them? Here's a simple example of everyday life. When stray dogs attack a man in Belgrade and he or his family call for a dog's service, they often get an answer from the dog's service that they must not intervene because they are afraid of various NGOs involved in animal protection. Citizens are then explained that members of this service are also fired from complaints from NGOs. This means we've got something new coming from the West. Most NGOs dealing with animal rights are funded by the US and EU members. They imposed their money in Serbia a rule that more rights have dogs than people. The wanderers who attack children and women are not allowed to touch. It's only in case they hurt a child more severely, that he can react. That's not normal. For these reasons, the question arises whether in practice, even in this law, you can talk about the protection of savages and dogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37055	Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 32. This section of this law regulates the establishment of a hunting ground and we specifically suggest that the hunting ground cannot be less than 2,000 hectares of uninterrupted hunting land. I was told by colleagues, when we were on the Committee, that it was regulated by some other attitude or some other entity or other template, but I think that this is very important, that, when hunting is done, it is defined just as we propose, or "incessant hunting surfaces". I could have added some more comments, hunting-technical facilities and all that is needed for a hunting ground, but I don't think we allow these amendments to tycoons that are now specifically engaged in agriculture in Vojvodina and Serbia, and we know, and the public, that there are a lot of unresolved problems, that many surfaces are being processed and neither knows who it is, nor how, nor why. We also asked some parliamentary questions in this area, to get an answer that specifically uses certain areas and under what conditions. We've received some flat-rate comments, so because of such comments, we suggest that these 2,000 acres be not cut, that it be not in pieces, that it be 2,000 in general and that on the basis of that continent, a hunting ground can be established. We've been called back from the field, people are afraid, there's a lot of these people who, thanks to some closer information they're getting across the road, already provide themselves with some 2,000 acres so they can hunt those 2,000 acres under normal conditions, as prescribed by the Ministry, or in accordance with the law. I propose that the minister accept this amendment, means "incessant surfaces". It's nothing special, we'd only have one security to keep those surfaces from being molded, 300, 500, 700, etc. We believe that this amendment makes sense and that you should accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37057	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to the 35th amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36. Proposal for a law on game and hunting to add in Article 36 item 1 point 6 after the word "200 meters" to the words "from settlements and". The objective of the amendment is to more precisely define non-ferrous surfaces. The government has rejected the amendment with an explanation that it is not necessary to repeat more times in line with the same provision, with the provision "200m from the settlement" completely inaccurate because it does not define what the 200m counts on. However, the promoter seems to know well what is meant by the settlement and what is the limit of 200m, which is mentioned in the amendment. This is what I'm saying for the reason that the promoter has placed the settlements in the section on impromptu surfaces, i.e. Article 36, and probably has an idea of the boundaries of the settlement. I think it's nothing wrong and it's desirable that the space of 200 meters from the border of the settlement represents an impertinent area, primarily for safety reasons. The fact that you have fenced yourself that it is not defined where the settlement begins and ends, means that the hunter can come in the middle of the settlement and say – the settlement does not start here, but somewhere over seven hills, because it is not defined by law. In point 6 of this article, you only give that possibility when it comes to residential and auxiliary facilities outside the inhabited area. In some villages and villages that have dissociated households, in the whole area, you will see not hunting surfaces, but so on. Hunting enclaves, precisely because this is how you pictured the rough surfaces. How are you going to treat populated places in Timoška krajina, Homolj, where individual villages spread, for example, within a radius of 10 km, and there are barely 200 houses? Will you organize hunting surfaces between these lonely households at a distance of 500 meters with a range of 300 metres? That's a logical question and I suggest you adopt this amendment to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37059	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37060	I would like to say that you, Mr. Ilic, and Mr. Draga Damnjanovic have proposed an identical amendment, which reads: ''In Article 36, paragraph 1 in point 6') after the words '200 meters from', the words 'populate and' are added. We accept that amendment and we believe that it will contribute to a better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37061	I find that the government has accepted the amendment. The word is Mr. Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37062	The minister explained, and I just wanted to say what the difference was and why the Committee on Agriculture was not accepted at the time. The only difference was that Mr. Radisa Ilic wrote "200 m", and Mr. Draga Damnjanovic, whose amendment was adopted on the Committee, "200 meters". Somewhere in the service, it failed that it was not extended to 200 meters, as with Mr Drago Damnjanovic, but it is understood. Anyway, thanks for accepting the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37063	The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. That's what I was talking about. The government accepted the amendment, was also accepted by the Committee, so it is an integral part of the text of the law. The 38th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Do you want a word? Yeah. Just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I assume it is clear to you, Minister, and to your associates what I wanted to say, but I will try, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, to clarify my amendment. In order for it to be clearer, I must read the position of Article 2 of Article 38: ''The beneficiary of the hunting ground may be a legal person who fulfils the conditions for carrying out the hunting boss in accordance with the provisions of this law and in respect of: the appropriate guarantees prescribed by Article 44 of this Law... ''Please pay attention, Minister, to my amendment, this is further deleted, and remember Article 44, because this is Article 38. The amendment reads: "In Article 38 paragraph 2 of the words ''In the value of the initial funds I hunt protected species of savages counted at the prescribed level of compensation'' are deleted. My explanation of this amendment says, 'Article 44. The bill found that the minister prescribed a way to determine the level of the relevant guarantees, so that there was no need for the existence of a text, whose erasure is proposed in Article 38(2)'. It seems rather vague, but I wanted it to be simplified, to be cast out in Article 38, paragraph 2, because in article 44, you're all talking, jurisdiction goes on to you and you decide on this further in the text. It's just the essence of my amendment. Why would it stand after this below, when it's called "Article 44 of this Law" and then what I'm asking continues to be erased, "in the value of the initial funds, I hunt protected species of game calculated at the prescribed level of compensation... ''? I value that in article 44 he says that you are the minister who decides about it and I don't see why this sentence is needed. Okay, you're here to decide whether or not you're going to accept the amendment, but, simply, before you delete it, it says that the member of this 44th law... And you're literally a member of 44. I can't keep it simple anymore, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37065	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37066	Article 38 speaks of what the intensity of this law is and how the law will be applied. Mr. Minister, point 4 reads: "The beneficiary of the hunting ground may also be a legal person who is not registered for the purpose of carrying out professional activities in the management of hunting grounds and/or hunting operations, if he has concluded a contract to carry out professional activities in the management of the hunting grounds and/or hunting operations with a legal person registered for the performance of those tasks prior to the submission of a claim for the right to manage the hunting grounds". Now you can see the true essence of this law, from this fourth point of view. What's the point? The essence of the law is to extend financial acts and powerful tycoon firms, and with this attitude, the way is clear that Serbia's hunting grounds have been devastated, dissuade and savagely exploited by game funds. To whom this law is intended, it seems clear to me that this attitude is clear, and that is the essence of those remarks that the DSS has been telling you from the beginning. In this attitude, you can see clearly what the law's purpose is. The intention of the law is that one who has no money, who has nothing to do with hunting, can rent a hunting ground, clean it up nicely, without any obligation. The new law does not require him, and I will remind you that the 1993 law stipulates that the beneficiary of the hunting grounds is obliged to enter 30 percent of the incomes obtained by direct management of the hunting grounds. It's not here. So the real essence of this law, to which the law is intended, is shown in Part VI. The head of the hunting grounds. It's clear now, and the public of Serbia needs to know. What exactly are you predicting by this law? This is very harmful for the values that the state of Serbia has so far had.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37067	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37068	Thank you. The lack of justification for the fear of harming hunting associations by this law lies in the fact that hunting associations, in accordance with Article 38(3). The draft law may be used by hunting sites, as well as by hunting associations of former users or legal followers of former users, in accordance with Article 40(5). The bill, they have the advantage of obtaining the right to manage the hunting grounds if the hunting grounds are established on the surface of the existing hunting grounds, which means that the advantage of winning the hunting grounds is given to those who were there. Not someone else, not some store, but the ones who were here. In addition, hunting associations that have acquired the right to master the hunting grounds conclude a direct contract with the state of Serbia as the owner of the game. In this way not only did the subject matter of the law preserve hunting associations, but it gave them complete legality and legitimacy, i.e. rights guaranteed by the Constitution and law. That's very, very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37069	Mr. Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37070	Mr. Minister, let's put things the way they are. What if, for example, an ad by a previous user, who had a great boss, settled all obligations and has a realistic investment plan, or privateer, or better yet, a legal person who was created yesterday, a nickel yesterday, and offers a visibly unrealistic investment plan? Who are you going to give the hunting ground to to the boss? The fact that you're declaring your advantage to the hunting association, it's a waste of dust, there's nothing to it. That's completely clear to me. The law wasn't written for hunters and hunting associations, it was written for someone else. It's the essence of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37071	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37072	Anyone who has won a hunting ground must give the state a guarantee that they will manage the hunting grounds in accordance with the contract signed. If he does not manage the hunting grounds adequately, the contract will be terminated and the guarantee released. It's very simple. That's how state property is protected, in this case, savage.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37073	Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37074	I asked you a specific question – who are you going to give the hunting ground to? What happens if that investment plan is unrealistic? What happens to that hunting ground when he gets it back, when you take it away from him? Who's going to be responsible for that? You must bear responsibility, for you have passed this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37075	The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38. Proposal for a law on game and hunting. The SRS also wanted to protect the current users of the hunting grounds with this amendment because, as the promoter has suggested, it turns out that it doesn't matter anymore, because, according to Article 38(5), 'the right to manage the hunting grounds is made public'. So long-standing main business carriers to improve Serbia's hunting now have to line up with tycoons, those who throw millions of euros, who buy in Serbia whatever they want, with people whose only interest is profit, not the promotion of hunting and game funds in Serbia. That is why we predicted that the acquisition of the right to master the hunting grounds was first offered to the current catch user, who successfully managed it, of course with respect to legal provisions. This would continue the continuity of the hunting grounds from previous users. The explanation of this amendment is: "The proposed new positions of 6th and 7th are based on the explicit recommendation of international FAO consultant Marko Janozovich, as outlined in the above-mentioned report (paragraph 8th on page 14th) – If the current hunting user does not accept the offered conditions, this hunting ground is offered in an open tender and the most favourable offer is accepted (in financial and other terms)". It is a practice not only in this case, but also in the case of the exercise of the right to own property and in other spheres of life. Here today you often mentioned the Hunting Union and the people who were chosen there. Can you understand that just as I would call them, the presidents of the local hunting alliances have been silent, have avoided the debate at their meetings on this law? For you now, it's proportionate that someone, in their own name, has, in principle, supported a law like this and is now hiding, if I may say so, from my colleagues, in a mouse hole. Why do you need such a hunting alliance and a hunting chamber if those who need to benefit from all this are triggering a petition against such a law and against the people who gave consent on their behalf to such a bill? What are you going to do when you get a petition with the signatures of 80,000 hunters to withdraw this law? Will you then remain silent in the face of such obvious dissatisfaction? And as for the mention of guarantees possibly new users who will manage the hunting grounds, you say -- if they fail to comply with the legal provisions, the guarantee will be activated, what happens, Mr. Minister, if the guarantee does not reach the value of the damage done in the hunting grounds? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37077	The Committee on Agriculture submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37078	I would like to say that we accept the amendment to Article 38(6), where it is changed and reads: "Extremely from Article 5 of this Article, the right to manage the hunting grounds is given without a public ad for hunting purposes to a public undertaking, or another legal entity whose founder is the Republic, or an autonomous province, which is the beneficiary of the state forests and forest land on which the hunting ground is established, as well as a hunting ground in which the owner of the land is the owner of Article 34(3) of this Act". As you can see, on several occasions your amendments, which I consider to be extremely professional, have been accepted. So, this petition story, I don't get it. As you can see, I suppose there's a little political rhetoric here, but let's be serious people. As you can see, everything that we think is appropriate and that improves the law, we accept. This is, I mean, your third amendment that we accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37079	Thank you. The 38th Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banovic. Mr. Dimitrievich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37080	Mr. Minister, we have made your decision by amendment to correct this injustice. You didn't accept that amendment, and I'm really sorry you didn't do it. It is you who predicted that in a certain way they would have the advantage of hunting societies, but that's a distraction to the public and it's a completely impossible and inapplicable thing. The most amazing member of this law looks like this, and now you'll see it's all wired up with money. This is Article 80 – a fee for the use of poaching protected game species is determined at an appropriate percentage of the value of the planned shot I hunt protected game species for the current hunting year, and 5% for the hunting grounds special purpose and 10% for other hunting grounds, except for the value of the planned phaser blast. So, for the current year. Mr. Minister, tell me one country in the world where taxes are charged in advance. Is there any country? Whoever rents the hunting grounds must pay 5 or 10 percent in advance. Where else is there in the world? How long do you think you're making money? How long do you think you're putting your hands in other people's pockets? What does this look like? This law is a disaster. This is a withdrawal of money. You look at it in every way, not selecting funds, not choosing ways, you don't have the measures to steal as much money as you can to fill a budget. It's just amazing what you're doing. I ask you nicely – in which country is the tax charged in advance? Is there such a country in the world? The first country in which the tax is charged in advance is Serbia. Congratulations on that. You will explain that to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37081	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill of Wildlife and Hunting. With this amendment, I asked for a new position 6 to be added in Article 40 of this Act after Article 5(5). With this attitude, I asked that when making a decision on the right to manage hunting grounds, citizens living near these hunting grounds are taken care of. In this law, you have foreseen many things and many details, there are even some things that I have nothing against, but when it comes to citizens living close to these hunting grounds, the law did not provide for any possible possibility that they could achieve some specific right that they could draw from that fact located close to these hunting sites, hunting areas. In fact, I suppose these people, or citizens, must be here in the form of a legal person, most interested in the fate of the environment, or what is happening in their immediate environment. The main thing of the amendment was that I asked that under some equal conditions the citizens living in that environment come into contact. To take the opportunity and this amendment to say that on Saturday and Sunday, March 20 and 21, in the village of Leskovic near Nis, located on the territory of the Red Cross municipality, an international meeting of hunters is being held. Hunters from all over Serbia and some countries will participate. The Municipality of Red Cross, a low municipality, is the sponsor of this event, and the SRS is in charge of the municipality. So, in some ways, we made a contribution to this event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37083	The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37084	Today, there's been a lot of controversy about whether it's okay to ask to delete the word "Minister" and to say "Minister." We know that the State Administration Act prescribes that the minister adopts regulations and solutions on administrative and other individual matters and decides on other issues from the Ministry's section, as defined by Article 23. Here in this Article 44. we think it is more logical that the Ministry is closer to prescribing the method of establishing the hunting area and hunting grounds, the conditions for carrying out the hunting boss, the procedure for implementing the public ad, the procedure for giving and withdrawing the right to manage the hunting grounds, the content of the contract, the determination of the height of the appropriate guarantees that it is required to provide the legal person before the conclusion of the contract, as well as the conditions and the way in which the catch register is to be leased. A little while, the minister, in my second report, didn't answer. I may have made a mistake, Mr. Minister, when I mentioned the Agricultural Land Act. You obviously didn't understand me. Under the current Agricultural Land Act, foreign citizens can't buy our land for four years. Many other countries, which have signed the Association Agreement, have won at seven, some at ten years and cannot sell agricultural land in Croatia. The fact is, foreign citizens bought agricultural land with us. Will the hunting association in the territory where the foreign citizen bought the agricultural land participate in the bidding and have the privilege of the buyer who bought the land to keep that hunting ground still? There may be a situation that some hunting associations simply won't have anywhere to hunt. And it's especially a question with hunting associations that have really worked well. There's a lot of them, sure, and a lot of them. What happens to their property, their buildings, the land that belongs to them, and grants, etc.? It's possible we don't understand each other, but I was really trying to be as concrete as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37085	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 45. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37086	I would like to say that these are the amendments we discussed when we discussed the law in principle and it is related to the period of adoption of the Strategy. We accepted Mr. Mašić's suggestion, which I think affects the fact that the law is significantly improved, so we can say that we accept the amendment to Article 45(1) to change and read: "The basic document of the management and protection of game is the strategy that the Government brings for a period of 15 years". If I may, the President-in-Office, I would also like to say that we accept the amendment to Article 46(1) and (2) to change and say: "The implementation of the objectives and measures for the development of hunting and the improvement of the status of game populations in the hunting area is done on the basis of a hunting area development programme brought by the Ministry for a period of 15 years. For hunting areas in the territory of autonomous provinces, the hunting area development programme shall be carried by the competent regional authority for a period of 15 years." We also accept an amendment to Article 95, to change and read: "The hunting inspector's business can carry out a person who has acquired a higher education in second-degree studies (graduate academic studies - master, specialist academic studies, specialist vocational studies), i.e. on basic studies of at least four years, where he has passed an object in the field of hunting, with a hunting license, with a state-run professional exam and with at least five years of professional experience in the field of hunting". As for your comments, the Law on Agricultural Land clearly and loudly states that a foreign person cannot buy land in Serbia. Very clear and loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37087	Thank you, Mr. Minister. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 46, which you accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill of Wildlife and Hunting, to the 47th member of this law. I asked the amendment to add one new sentence after the third article's position. This sentence speaks of that, when it comes to hunting grounds, complete records should be kept on a unique form that should be prescribed by the relevant ministry, in this case the Ministry of Agriculture. We know that the law also prescribes the necessary data that has to come from the field to the Ministry, where these data are processed. We know that Serbia has a large number of hunting grounds, a large number of hunting grounds and a large number of national parks. If each of them in the field, and the data needed by the ministry, were to end in their own way, it might not be a problem for them, but for the people in the Ministry who are doing statistical data this and how difficult the problem is. So I proposed this amendment, which essentially changes nothing much, but in some ways simplifies this law and facilitates the collection of data and statistics. I would like to appeal to you, Minister, to adopt this amendment, which certainly won't disrupt the concept of the law as you have suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37089	The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojić-Markovic. Mr. Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37090	Here's a member who has one point that's completely pointless. See what you wrote: '2nd person without public documents found in the conduct of illegal actions brings to the competent authority'. It's meant to be the authority of the hunters. Did you have a chance to read the Police Act? Do you know who's in charge of bringing in a particular face? How do you think a poacher can bring that face that ran an illegal shop? How do I do that? We've introduced a solution to inform the competent authority. You know who's in charge of arresting people in this country. You create miracles in this law. You will lead to such situations that people will begin to calculate and calculate among themselves. Come on, explain to me how a hunter can bring someone in. Based on what? With one law, you're going to derogate and completely delete the Police Act? Where did you see that? Where is it? You're watching those American TV shows, right, the one that deals with animal protection? That's not how it works. In this section of the law, you're talking about a hunter being able to intercept on the path of someone who's going, and you know how many roads that go through the center of the hunting grounds, even highways. A man travels in his car, is stopped by a hunter – open the trunk, take everyone out, see that you haven't caught anything, that you don't transport the game. My men, put a little finger on your forehead. Mr. Minister, how will a hunter bring someone in? By what law? By this law of yours? That's ridiculous. That's absurd, totally. It's completely pointless what you wrote in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37091	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37092	In the Nature Protection Act, there is absolutely the same provision that an official who works in a protected good can in the same way bring in a person who behaves inadequately in this good. So it's already a practice, a provision that exists in another law, which is good, which has shown itself in practice as feasible and only applies to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37093	Thank you. Mr. Plužarevic first, so I'll give you my word, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a comment on the authorities of the Hunters. Article 58 does not have a final effect. I'll support Mr. Dimitrievich. Really, how can a poacher do all these shopwork and pre-work and end up with fake hunting faces? I've been working on it specifically, and I've been doing these jobs, and it's unarranged in law. There's no method or technology. Even police sometimes don't know what to do and what to stop these wrongdoers, or people who are outside the law and who deal with perjury. Today, at the time of modern technology, in the days of jeeps, at the time of rifles that are very modern, mobile phones, GPS systems, the hunter needs, and we know how our hunters are dressed and technically equipped to stop someone. It's very difficult, and I think there's going to be a lot of problems with the hunting service. We thought that this law would require the hunting service, even if only by law, to be equipped and operated according to all norms and laws. It is easy for the EU, it is easy for those people who participated in the creation of this law to comment on hunting and other services there in the West, when there are other principles and relations and everything there is at some other level than Serbia, which you know in what state and how we operate and how we live. These remarks by colleagues to article 58 stand, and I do not see a solution to the hunting service. We know that the hunting service in Serbia is at the lowest level, I mean economically. People should survive, and in order to be motivated to carry out this task, they must be rewarded and respected from the level of the Ministry to their hunters and associations in which they operate and function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37095	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37096	I'd just like to say that under the Code of Criminal Procedure, every citizen has the right to make it impossible for a person to commit a crime to commit that crime. I don't see why that right should be denied by a hunter. That's one. Two, the law itself has defined that the procedure in which the hunter will react can be prescribed by sublaws. In other words, in a free translation, it should look so that the person caught in the poaching is retained and called on the police to come to the scene and continue to take action. That's about the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37097	Here you go, Ambassador Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37098	Mr. Minister, it says clearly here - bring it to the competent authority. When you bring someone in, you deprive him of his freedom. Do you understand what I'm talking about? If you're bringing someone in, you've deprived him of his freedom. Based on what decision? Based on the court's decision, you can deprive someone of their freedom. It can't be done by a poacher, man. Do you know how wide these powers are? What happens now? Let's take a hypothetical one situation. The face was found in a hunting grounds with no ID in the poaching. The hunter wants to bring him in, and he says, "I won't." Turn around and move on. And what does a hunter do? He's shooting at him, isn't he? Is that the purpose of this law? What happens if the face turns and leaves the place? How is he going to stop him by physical force? What's he gonna do, train martial arts? What do you want him to do? It's completely pointless what you wrote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37099	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37100	I'd just like to do it one more time. Every citizen has the right to, if found in the presence of a person who commits a crime, prevent that person from committing a crime, that is to say, stopping him from trying to get away from the scene of the crime. Please, I really don't think it's appropriate to take that right away from a hunter whose job it is to stop poachers from hunting. I think I've been very, very clear. That's why this person is called a hunter. What's his function if he can't do it, to realize that someone did the poaching and walked off the scene? What can he do if he can't stop that face and make it impossible to get out of the scene of a crime, or from a crime scene or escape from the scene, whatever you want? So what's the point of being a hunter in the first place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37101	Mr. Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37102	Mr. Minister, I'm really asking you to read point 2: "a person without a public ID found in the conduct of illegal actions is brought to the competent authority". Not to keep him, but to bring him in. So, put the cuffs on him, tie him up, arrest him, somehow stick him in the car and bring him in. I speak Serbian, I don't speak Chinese, for God's sake. It says, bring it in. I didn't write it, you wrote it in law. We're trying to find a solution, get out of that dead end, because that's impossible and unsustainable, and you're telling me theories.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37103	The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37104	Article 63 speaks about how to issue a hunting licence. I have proposed an amendment to the following content – Articles 63 and 2 are amended and read: "The license to hunt game, on a prescribed form, issues a person who performs professional hunting activities with the hunting user. The individual hunting permit is in the name of the hunter, and the group is in the name of the group leader.' In the third sentence, the words "licences to hunt for large game and licenses to hunt for small game" are replaced by the words "separate permits and group permits". We simply believe that it must be determined who is issuing a license for game hunting by the hunting user. The Government rejected this amendment with the following explanation: the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the draft law stipulates that the beneficiary of the hunting grounds is obliged to designate the person issuing the fishing authorisation, etc. I've read the amendment and the argument multiple times, and I've come to the conclusion that the amendment is in no way contrary to this decision proposed by the Government. What's this all about, what's the difference? The government is proposing that permission be issued by a person designated by the hunting user. We of the SRS agree with that, only we suggest that this person must be an expert in the management of hunting operations. So we just specify this government solution, we think we're improving it, making it better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37105	Mr. Veselinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37106	I just wanted to get a hold of myself, ladies and gentlemen, for Mr. Dimitrievich's discussion, because my question to Mr. Secretary referred to this article 58. I believe the minister will hear me, and until now he should have given me an answer on this issue and indiscretion in Article 58(2). If we pay attention to Article 57, the rights and duties of the hunters, and there are some illogicalities, but it is mostly covered by that hunting duty. If we pay attention to point 6, it says: 'ask for the assistance of the competent internal affairs authority and the hunting inspector responsible if it is disabled in the pursuit of hunting operations'. Mr. Minister, pay attention to this point six, please. I know all this is going to disrupt Hope Kolundji with her education and retraining, but please, Mr. Minister, everything is said in Article 57(6), where she says: "ask for the help of the competent authority of internal affairs and the competent hunting inspector if it is disabled in the pursuit of hunting activities", not to say in Article 58: "a person without public documents found in the conduct of illegal activities is brought to the competent authority". This really derogates both the law on police and the Criminal Code. You should have respected the objections of the MPs and accepted the amendments or changed what you wrote on the Committee yourself, because this really cannot be applied. I said before, when I raised a question I wouldn't get an answer to, that almost everywhere, and where I should and where I shouldn't, you mix the organs of the internal affairs. At least in sports and money, there's got to be a way to avoid getting the police involved, except when there's no order. If the Kopalnik National Park buys a tycoon and gives him a special hunting ground, well, Mr. Minister, if he has the money to buy it for 20 years, he can pay the security agency to secure it from the poachers. Make sure there's a guard involved, but let him secure it, and never mix the police where they shouldn't. If we get the police involved in breaking up Partizan and Star fans, or Rad and my New Market, where are 2,500 cops involved, then what's this sport for? The organizer is obliged to ensure peace and order where these sports events are held. And in hunting, the organizer is obliged to ensure order as prescribed by law. So far, it's been done by hunting associations. Each hunting association had several of its hunters. These hunters were doing their job as security guards of hunting grounds and order in the hunting grounds. They had to take out the competent superior, i.e. The president of the association, about the problems that are going on there, and then he decides on a procedure that needs to be conducted against hunters who have been doing some illegal activities there in the hunting grounds. There's a disciplinary commission there, a committee of honor, everything exists and everything is regulated. If that doesn't help either, then the hunter is being charged with criminal or criminal charges, and then there's a confiscation of weapons, an end to hunting, etc. You now want a remote from the Chamber to run hunting grounds in Serbia. Serbia's hunting alliance and hunting associations are losing their hunters. They only formally exist until the next amendment and addition of the law. You couldn't erase them, because you needed some consent now, as you said before, from the Hunting Union of Serbia. And that's a lie, you see, it's someone signed, in the name of who, I don't know. Let the president of the Hunting Union of Serbia listen to it now so that they can deny what it says in the paper. In this way you have demoted, with the aim of destroying the Hunting Union of Serbia and associations, and of moving all of this into some business and, normally, the Chamber will conduct and manage hunting sites. I asked the question, I don't know that hunter you're going to take away the hunting ground, there's two thousand acres, and where the atoms are going to be there in the possession of private workers, peasants, and that hunter comes to legitize them and bring them back from his Athar and from his forest or his farm land. Let's see how that hunter gets by. So here's the goal of the hunters fighting, which you've licensed and trained, with hunters, and then with hunters, and that's how we break up hunting associations and the Hunting Union of Serbia. You didn't need this attitude for sure, and I'm sure you didn't, either, but you're having second thoughts, but I believe whoever wrote this probably doesn't know how much about the first ones, so I'm not a lawyer, but this is really in collegiate with the other laws, including the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37107	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37108	We're talking about having a hunter in the hunting grounds. The hunter here serves that if he stops a person in the poaching, he brings that face in, as the municipal police officers do, as I have already mentioned, the guardians of natural goods do. So we're not talking about hunters, we're talking about poachers. That's the opposite. A poacher is like a thief, and a hunter is like an honest man. So they don't serve as hunters to harass hunters, but poachers, which hunters love, what hunters want, because poachers outside of the hunting season kill their game. When you see a man with a shot-out savage who can shoot himself at that time of year, you know that man probably isn't into poaching. If at a time when there's no time for hunting a certain game you see a man carrying that game, he's in perjury. So that's not the point - I went out into the field and suddenly this hunter came and harassed me if I'm a poacher, and I'm actually on my field orm. That can't happen. You know how you find someone in the poaching. It's an armed man with savages who shouldn't be dead next to him, shot dead at that time of year, season, etc. and it's very simple to determine. So, in order for someone to be in poaching, he must have a weapon, he must be at a time when there's no time for hunting with a certain shot savage who wasn't supposed to be shot at the time and found in a hunting ground without prior permission. So it's someone who has absolutely nothing to do with it. So let's stop changing the weights. One is a hunter, and the other is a poacher. That's two different, separate concepts. And it is known why a hunter is serving, he is there to protect, among other things, and hunters from poachers, because these hunters want to hunt game here, that this gamer is being restored, and the poacher doesn't want it. He's in the best interest of killing as many as possible and getting away from the hunting grounds. It's very simple. There's no dispute there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37109	Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37110	I'll just take a minute, Mr. Minister. A colleague used to say that we speak Serbian, not Chinese. If you would comment on this law, as you think, logically, I agree if it were a commentary of this law and to hand it to that hunter. If the hunter is a man with a high school, it doesn't matter, and he literally understands what you wrote here, I'm convinced not only that he can't understand his hunting service and obligations, but he's going to make a fight and trouble out there. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not changing thesis. You can't possibly understand that you don't understand what you wrote here. I'm a mathematician, but I know logic a lot. Logically, and observed, if this is literally understood by the hunter, there will be problems. I'm saying you didn't need this. It has been said that in the event that it is prevented from performing its tasks listed here, the authority only has jurisdiction to bring the person to the competent authority, which is the authorised person of the MUP. I'm just saying that this doesn't stand at all, that this attitude 2 derogates all of this, and simply, Minister, you're wrong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37111	The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dusan Maric has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 63a be added after article 63a. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37112	My colleague Vitomir Plužarevic and I shared the roles. He supports real hunters, those who adhere to the hunting code, and I criticize those who take hunting exclusively as a personal pleasure. To this end, I have submitted a proposal to add a new Article 63a after article 63a, which would clearly specify which persons cannot pass the hunting exam. "The Hunting Test cannot be a person: 1) which, in the last five years, has been sentenced to an unauthorized sentence for the use of weapons for a period of one year; 2) which has been convicted in the last 10 years of a judicial conviction for the unauthorized use of weapons for a period of one year; 3) which has been convicted by a judicial verdict in criminal acts of murder; 4) which has been prosecuted for the use of weapons and violent conduct; 5) which, in the last five years, has been convicted of criminal acts of violence and 6) which in the last 10 years, has been convicted of violent conduct against prisons for a period of more than one year." Practice shows that a significant number of crimes in Serbia have been committed by hunting weapons and that those crimes have been committed by persons who have already been convicted for acts of violence and for the unauthorized use of weapons, so we in the SRS believe that accepting this amendment would reduce the number of these crimes. I also believe that the passing of a hunting exam should be prohibited from all persons who have refused or refused a call for mobilization in the future, to all persons who have avoided serving a military term and to all persons who have avoided serving a military deadline with a rifle in their hand, or who have been defined as so-called "the" so-called "war". Civil wartime service. The vast majority of those faces are their desertion, so-called. Civil service military service, explained by fear of weapons, fear of shooting, violence and killing. You know, you can't shoot at someone who can fight back, who can put you at risk, be a pacifist and a coward, and when you want to eat a good scrawny, then be a hero and a hunter. With that in mind, I think it would be good and useful, in order to achieve this goal, which is why I proposed that Article 63 be introduced, that hunting associations, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence make up one analysis, information on how many registered hunters in Serbia have refused to participate in the defence of the country and serve the military deadline, in general, to serve the military term, and how many hunters who served the military deadline and called for a plea of conscience and refused to serve it as a military service, with a rifle in their hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37113	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37114	First of all, I'd like to say that the Arms and Ammunition Act defines who can carry weapons and, therefore, there's no need to double it and put it in hunting law. As far as the second comment, as a man, I think there's a very big difference whether you shoot an animal or a man. So I couldn't have led her to shoot people and shoot animals, as much as I love animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37115	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37116	I just want to say that the Law of Military Obligation to serve a civil military term on the basis of an objection to conscience is not possible for those registered as weapons carriers, as well as for registered hunters. So that law defines how these two things are incompatible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37117	Mr. Maric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37118	Mr. Minister, clearly there's a difference between shooting people and shooting animals. However, it is not only a difference in purpose, the difference is also in motive. I'm starting to assume that a normal man shoots at another man only in case he's mobilized, when the state of war is also for the sake of the country's defense of his own country, his own hearth. And the hunter shoots for some other reason entirely.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37119	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojić-Markovic. Mr. Dimitrievich, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37120	This amendment refers to something that is ethics in hunting, meaning hunting for certain species of game. Everywhere in the world, at least in those countries that hunt as a commitment, hunting wild pigs with unwrought pipes is not allowed. In that sense, I have submitted this amendment, that we too apply this practice, if we already respect both some tradition and those international laws. What's that about? Because it happens that when you hunt with unsullied pipes, there's too many wounds and that savage goes and dies in terrible torments. So, for human reasons. Let's not allow wild boars to be hunted by unwrought pipes, but only by carabine, meaning guns with broken pipes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37121	The 77th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Vitomir Plužarevic and Dragi Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Plužarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37122	We have submitted an amendment to Article 80 where it is necessary to correct this percentage participation for special purpose hunting grounds, or for classical hunting grounds: ''In Article 80, paragraph 2, after the percentage '5%' of the words 'for special purpose hunting sites and 10% for other hunting grounds' are deleted'. We suggest that those 10% be mostly for all hunting grounds. The same article adds a new position, which reads: "Extremely for the hunting grounds in the state property given in the concession, the amount of compensation shall be determined by contract". This would be some percentage that could be determined by a contract, that is, it might be a higher percentage than 10% if it's a rich and high-quality hunting ground, if there's a lot of game and if the concessionist has an interest in taking over the hunting grounds. We submitted the two amendments, Dragi Damjanovic and Vitomir Plužarevic, and that is one of the proposals they discussed in the Hunting Union of Serbia and in the professional services of the Hunting Union of Serbia. If you accept, it's okay, if you don't accept, we can't influence you to accept these percentages and make this law better in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37123	The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 80th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Maric submitted to Article 81 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37124	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the previous speakers have said a lot about the power of the minister and the ministry, and I will refer only to part of Mr. Minister's presentation when he gave the introduction to this law and said that the government of Serbia and the Ministry had nothing to do with the chambers. We have a member of the 11th. It's a chamber business. Just to look back at point 10) in the last position, where it is said: "The statute and general acts of the Chamber are given consent by the Ministry". Then we move on, in Article 12, the last two positions are: "The Chamber Assembly chooses between its members of the President, as well as the composition of the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board, the Authority of the Chamber which decides on the issue and withdrawal of the licence and the Ethics Committee, in which they must be representatives of the Ministry and of the Autonomous Province which are members of the Chamber. The number, composition, section and method of selecting the authorities referred to in Article 1 shall be determined by the Statute of the Chamber." Doesn't this confirm the fact that the Chamber is, in fact, an outpost of the Ministry of Agriculture? You've seen the responsibilities of the Ministry of Education of the Chamber, which means it's not independent, just like many agencies you've formed in certain areas. There's no minister here, and I asked him an interesting question, which, I see, he won't answer or they're not ready to answer. It is related to agricultural works and the participation of farmers with their machines in their ataris. This law stipulates that these machines used in the hunting site must have built-in silencers, in the sense of preventing the driving of savages. I asked Mr. Minister who would ensure that these silencers were installed on motorists, tractors, motorcycles, combines and all those agricultural machines that work on that land. I didn't get the answer. Here's how much contradiction this law has and how far from applying it. I know that the aim of the legislator and the Minister of Agriculture and the Government is to pass this law as it were, but with comments from Serbian radicals and other MPs, and I believe hunters throughout Serbia, I hope they understand the essence – that this is in practice inadmissible and that this law must urgently endure changes and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37125	Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 95. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was submitted by the MPs Milorad Krstin and Dragi Damnjanovic in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment, MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojić-Markovic submitted together. Mr. Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37126	Here's another pointless provision in this law. Article 105: "The fine between 5,000 and 30,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of a natural person", which states, and there are a few things that are right, but point 3) says: 'He shall reap and cut down agricultural machines that do not have built-in exorcision devices, i.e. the fear of savages (Article 22 point 7)'. Since there is a minister of agriculture, it simply raises the question whether he was staying in mountain-mounted villages. Does he know what these peasants' agricultural devices look like? Well, these people don't have the money to change their tires, and when they break that reaper, the grass-cutting knife, or the grass-cutting, they don't have the ability to buy new ones, but they wear it to be welded, etc., and you're going to punish them from 5,000 to 30,000 dinars if they don't have that. Who are you going to give these powers to, the hunter, the manager of the hunting grounds? You've provided senseless reports against these people to harass them and take the last penny out of their pockets. This point 3 in Article 105 is completely pointless. Throw it out, it's completely unnecessary. You're not going to use the cheapest things to get those poor peasants out of your pocket. This doesn't make sense. The question arises whether anyone has ever read this law. Did anyone ever put a finger on their forehead and think about what was written in this law? I really don't see any reason not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37127	The 110th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37128	Here's one more thing. What is the purpose of this law? I'm sorry the minister isn't here, but it also paints what the purpose of this law is. Article 2 states: "The current beneficiary of the hunting ground who, after the entry into force of this law, has not been granted a catch on land, as well as the so far-called beneficiary of the hunting grounds who has not been granted the right to manage the hunting grounds has the right to compensation for unamortised parts of the construction of technical and hunting facilities and the cost of hunting grounds, if the investments in these facilities and the hunting grounds are higher than the incomes... '"What do you mean by this article? So you're saying that you're going to be kidnapped from hunting societies by hunting and hunting facilities. You mention the unamortized part. And what's the unamortized part? Who's going to estimate if it's unamortized, so it's going to be worth five or six dinars? This is a classic robbery and kidnapping of something that has been created in hunting societies for decades. How are you not ashamed of this law? It's without any scruples. You're going to kidnap, give tycoons to the hunting homes that hunting societies have been creating for years. How far does that limit of your indifference go? That's the goal of this law, that hunting is completely decapitated, that money be collected, that tycoons be introduced into the hunting grounds, and that all of the hunting societies be taken away. Tell the public of Serbia and Serbian hunters that it is the aim of this law, which is the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37129	The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Dragan Zivkov and Dragi Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by the MPs Radisa Ilic and Dragi Damnjanovic. Mr. Ilichu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37130	Just to ask how much time there is left for the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37131	Nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37132	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 115. The draft law on game and hunting, and I am sorry that the minister is not here, perhaps he would accept this amendment, primarily in the interest of hunters and hunting in Serbia. It is obvious that, based on the reaction of both hunters and MPs and experts who are calling for the recommendations of international FAO consultants, this law is difficult to implement. According to Slobodan Grdinic, a member of the Commission on Legal Affairs of the Hunting Union of Serbia, the law is unclear, inconclusive and inapplicable. From the very dictionaries and definitions to the transitional and final provisions, there are discrepancies of members, unstandardized concepts and expressions, which can lead to a number of misunderstandings and the collapse of a complete existing hunting system with chaotic consequences and the loss of the game fund. This is said by a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Hunting Union of Serbia, often called here by the minister. This law introduces many newspapers, which require both time and resources and knowledge to be understood. Such a massive reform, I would say radically, requires a delay in the application of the law. This period will be of good use to all the entities to which the law applies, above all to the state authorities, to carry out all the preparations necessary for the quality application of the law. There are deadlines for all actions provided for by this law, but this is not just about establishing a hunting chamber or establishing hunting areas, etc., this is about a broad, comprehensive process, which cannot just live in a week. An example is the Traffic Safety Act, which has been so discussed and has brought countless newspapers and obligations for citizens, for vehicle owners, for legal persons whose traffic is the main activity. The law was passed on June 10th 2009, and began to apply on December 10th, so six months after the adoption, precisely for reasons similar to this bill. As we know, and this law, just as it was done and done, gave some results. Therefore, the SRS proposes that this law should not apply until 1 January 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37133	Mr. Vitomir Plužarević has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37134	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored gentlemen of the Hunters, here we are, bringing an end to this famous law on game and hunt. I have the honour to inform you that by 2010, you were able to hunt and hunt in a traditional and yourself way, in accordance with existing laws and laws that were in line with previous norms and comments of the Hunting Union of Serbia and all hunting associations. This law, which today is on the agenda, or which we are discussing tonight, came from many desires that we do not know. And whose wishes are these? These are probably the wishes of various commissions that were tasked with destroying the unique Serb fighter corps and no longer functioning as it functioned. We, as Republic MPs, have tried in a democratic and quality way to influence this law through amendments. Some of these amendments have been accepted, but it is mostly the essence of the law as proposed by the promoters, i.e. the people who are tasked with adopting this law, not in the interest of hunters, but in the interest of those people who wanted to create this disunity. There are a lot of points that we've tried here today and wanted to direct the proposer of this law. It's, for example, the definition of savages, the status of the Hunting Union, hunting associations, they're licenses, chambers, hunters. So that's all in this law presented at the expense of Serbian hunters, who at the moment are said by 76,000, someone says 90,000, and there may be more. However, as much as I have information from the field, hunting tends to stagnate in that "age" comment. There are fewer and fewer young people who want to deal with hunting, or there are fewer and fewer young hunters who want to participate in this so far civil organization called hunting. We, members of the SRS, may have had a radical comment in this performance, but we believe that he intended to stop these unquality comments in this law. Whether we did it or not, it'll show time. But we believe that the hunters will already have a lot of problems at their first meetings after the adoption of this law and that they may still be able to hunt peacefully this year, until this law enters into force. This law should enter into force in 2011, but I doubt that the Ministry and the accompanying services will be able to prepare the accompanying documents that are necessary for this law to operate in accordance with the standards and principles to be drawn up under this law. We will most likely, as a republican parliament, perhaps by next year we will have amendments and additions to this law. I think the minister will also be satisfied with these changes and additions, as he will now be pressured by the 90,000 hunters and will have to suffer certain changes. Mr Dimitrijevic also mentioned a story about hunting homes and hunting-technical facilities. It's not defined in the right sense either by this law or by the Law on Associations. Remember that we had in the Republic Parliament the Law on Associations, where that area, I mean hunting homes, was supposed to be regulated to the well-being of those people who installed both material and spiritual goods in those facilities. How's that gonna be... ? We believe that hunting needs to be more professionalized, that the profession makes a greater contribution. However, it is only in law in some senses. So these indications do not give any future to that profession or science, which is very important, for protection, for promotion and for breeding savages. Remember, at today's session, I've been commenting on numbers. I did not want to comment on the bonus and habitat, which on Serbia's territory is always a quality, i.e. the first rating habitat for all of our species that we have commented on. So, the law on this game breeding process did not even indicate what a credit rating and a credit rating habitat was. Perhaps in these accompanying documents and acts, when hunting sites are established, they will make a quality comment. By talking to people who have been engaged in this profession and hunting, it is likely that a point will be put on the work so far and, if any progress is made, this progress should come from new additions and amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37135	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Dimitrievich, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37136	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we, by amendment to article 115, have provided for the application of this law to be postponed until all sublegal acts are passed. We have suggested this by considering that this bill and this discussion that has been under way all day, as well as previous discussions, clearly indicate that this law is not good. As an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, I will say a few more words about this law. I started the debate, and the public debate and the assembly procedure indicated that something fat was wrong with this law. We've shown you some things and told you what the law's purpose is. But a law like this has its end, Mr. Minister. This outcome is very difficult by the tradition of hunting in Serbia, by this professional organisation. The outcome will be the destruction of existing game funds, the destruction of hunting associations across Serbia, and the destruction of something that has existed more than a century in this space. The key thing that's not right in this law is to run a hunting ground by renting a hunting ground, even to people who have nothing to do with hunting. And that fact itself indicates what the meaning of this law is. And the final thing, which will completely destroy hunting in Serbia (and you, Mr. Minister, were not in the O.R. when I talked about it), refers to Article 110, hunting facilities and hunting technical means that will be taken away from hunting societies. However, there is something in the law that is referred to as an unamortized part. It opens and leaves a big dilemma – what is the unamortized part? Who's the one who's going to judge that? Mr. Minister, there are hunters in Serbia who, in their personal work, have invested part of their lives in these hunting-technical facilities, hunting homes, probably working more years than you have years of life, and you have deleted it by this law and allowed someone to reach such objects without any compensation for it. It's the beginning of this law, Mr. Minister. We have suggested that this law be withdrawn from the procedure and that a serious public debate be opened. We've been telling you that the relationship between the owner of the country and the tenant of the hunting grounds is a very important issue, which will open up a series of dilemmas and problems. Unfortunately, you were autistic to those messages. This is seen by the number of amendments you have accepted, both the most meaningful and the ones that warn you not to give any authority that crosses the standard norms in society. All this speaks of something that can be influenced by one concept, which is disrespect for another opinion. This can be taken under the notion of haughtiness, force, power, power. It's not the power nor the power to last forever. Mr. Minister, there are two kinds of responsibilities for what has been done and for what has not been done, and none of that responsibility can escape. We didn't have a conversation in you, we had a rigid bureaucrat to whom someone presented their goal, someone who wanted to profit on these resources, who wanted to destroy tradition, who wanted to destroy an organization that lasted forever and longer. It's the essence of this bill and it's a very sad fact. And it's not just about this law. A series of laws that this government makes makes makes sense in suppressing all that is not party politics. How long will that take us? The weather is starting to show it slowly. Thousands and hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia are starving today, no money for basics. Strikes in Serbia are mass today, people are self-injuring in these strikes. It's the starting point of this government's policy. Basically, that government doesn't exist. It's on paper. There is one man across the street who dictates everything and has everything in Serbia. This is the President of the Republic and the President of the Democratic Party. The outcome of this policy will be seen. There's already a breakdown. Instead of the promised road to Europe, instead of the road you promised, you brought Serbia into hopelessness, hunger and despair.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37137	Mrs. Kolundjia has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37138	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really didn't think I'd be talking about the game and hunting law, although I studied it carefully and followed the amendment debate closely. The only thing I can conclude is that I've heard here mostly those who defend allegedly some endangered hunters. But what I understand from this law is the serious intention of the state to protect what is publicly lastingly good. So we're not here to put one group in a privileged position compared to what's public interest. The truth is that we are going towards the European Union and the truth is that we are going faster than Vojislav Kostunica did and the truth is that those who now see the results of our efforts to get close to the European Union are not happy, they are not satisfied. But I want to tell you that one of the principles, one of the standards that applies to the countries of the European Union, is that it is a natural good general, so that game and their habitats are general planetary good and that each country has a responsibility to protect them, regardless of the passions, ambitions or desires of some individual groups. When I listen to all these moaning women, then I have to say that I don't see any member of the law that in any way has put people who are members of hunting associations at risk. Therefore, he only provided for the obligation and responsibility of whoever manages the hunting grounds to manage them in accordance with the basic principles of sustainable development and obligations towards the future. I know that there are those who might personally be affected, because there is no order there is always someone who can benefit from it, but what this government and this party's intention is to put order in all areas of life, that the question of the rules is not a matter of settlement, that the question of principle is not a question of political closeness, but that it's a question of prescribed norms that apply equally to all. If you want to show how unhappy you are not to wonder if we're going to build a country where the rules will apply to everyone and in which there will be an unequivocal responsibility for everyone, then all I can say is that, thanks to the policy you've been leading, you won't even be in that position. So what the citizens of Serbia define is a policy that shows the responsibility of the state to the resources that the state has and that obligation stands before all citizens [[Throwing it out of the bench.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37139	Please don't disturb Mrs. Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37140	I didn't throw it to you when you were saying things that had nothing to do with anything. I'm talking about the law on game and hunting, I'm talking about the obligation of the state to take care of what natural resources are. Natural resources are savages and are their habitats. If it is more important than that whether an individual will be damaged by it, we will be very pleased to vote for this law because we know that it protects not only the resources of the present generation, but also the resources of the generations to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37141	Mr. Služarevich, unfortunately you don't have the time, you've wasted your MPs' time. There's no basis for replication. This was a very clear view and explanation of the party's position on Mrs. Kolundjia. No offense, there was an explanation. Mr Dimitrijevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37142	Mrs. Kolundjia, this is what someone who has read the first two sides of the law says. This is what someone who didn't understand anything says. This is what someone who speaks from the position of power says. Mrs. Kolundjia, read this law carefully, you will find at least ten specifics that are unmistakably destroying what has existed in Serbia for more than a century. And it's not an individual's complaint. You'll see it soon enough. This is the destruction of a group of people who count hundreds of thousands. This is giving natural resources to those who have too much money, to manage and manage as it suits them. This is the kidnapping of natural resources. This is the elimination of a large group of people in Serbia, the elimination from what they were dedicated to for years, creating and preserving these goods. This story you presented as a story of individuals is completely pointless. So take the law and read it. Compare it with the laws of other countries. Compare it with the 1993 law, so you'll see what the differences are. And the differences are huge. The differences are devastating by the resources you stand for, destroying by the introduction of the order you stand for. It's the introduction of disorder, senselessness, haughtiness and force.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37143	Mr. Plužarevic is advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37144	I'm just going to say two sentences, namely that Mrs. Hope Kolundji is not in matter. We appreciate her...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37145	Where's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37146	Just a moment, please. She didn't understand the essence of this law. I don't want to elaborate anything. I think the minister has come to understand the essence of this law and that the minister has participated in the revision of this law. Maybe he is now, at this point...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37147	Mr. Služarevich, I was the only one who could have hurt the Rules of Procedure by having a session. You don't call on any members. You don't have a word. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37148	If you think I have to be a hunter so I can talk about the game and hunting law, then we don't really have qualified people here for many of the laws we're discussing. It's completely out of context to call someone out so they don't understand, I guess because you might be a hunter or a forestman, as far as I know, so you understand yourself, and I can't understand the law as well as a woodsman. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I understand perfectly. The only question is whether you believe the state or not. I trust the state and the institutions we are building and I believe that by building new institutions that will protect this public good, they will take a step forward in protecting this public good. That's what makes us different. I place a priority on the protection of public goods and on protecting resources that are a question not only of these generations but of future generations, compared to some individuals who may lose something by this law. That we're destroying one bright tradition, centuries or centuries and a half, first of all, I don't think that's true. People who respect law and order will be very easy to comply with this law. Those who, unfortunately, have abused an area that has not been defined by law, I hope that they will no longer be able to do so. That's just the difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37149	Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37150	Mrs. Kolundjia, it's good to believe in the institutions of this country. It's good to believe some promises. It's good to believe in 200,000 new jobs and get 200,000 fired. It is also good to believe in the righteousness of health care, so that you do not have the right to do so and do not do so. It's good to believe 1,000 euros in free shares, so you don't have them. It's those beliefs, and that's the policy you represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37151	Mrs. Kolundjia has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37152	I don't want to turn this into a political controversy that has nothing to do with the system. There's been a debate about this subject all day. About what I could never believe, and you unfortunately believe, I don't want to plow. What is the meaning of this law according to our deep conviction, and therefore the ZES parliamentary group will vote for this law, is that we have a responsibility to a natural resource called savage and their habitats, that we have a responsibility not only to use it but also to renew the responsibility to bring it to generations that come in a better and in no way worse condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37153	Mr. Dimitrievich, I'll give you my word, you have six minutes left, but please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37154	Speaking of resources, Mrs. Kolundzija, important resources for the citizens of Belgrade were also paid. An important resource for life and the environment. I could point out who else knows how many important resources have been destroyed in Serbia. And what's a fact, which is true, is that you haven't read this law. If you'd read it and analyzed it, you'd see how devastating it is. If this law had been governed by the right debate, an analysis and evaluation of this law would have included the Ministry of Environment. It's not on, and it's about resources. All of this shows how much we understand the subject and how much we have the right to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37155	Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37156	To claim that someone has not read the law, it is indeed a matter of decency. That's not what I want to talk about. That can't be the subject. But if the Ministry of Ecology were involved, it says this law. If you read it carefully, you will see that the Ministry of Ecology decides in key matters along with the Ministry of Agriculture. Now the question is, who read the law more carefully?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37157	Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37158	Mrs. Kolundjia, there's a lot of things in the law that are not respected. As for the fact that this law includes the Ministry of Environment, there is the President of the Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I warned that the Committee on Environmental Protection did not meet under this law even though it is a business obligation, and we are obliged to respect the rules of procedure. So much for knowledge, Mrs. Kolundjia, as head of the parliamentary group. Look at what it says in the Rules of Procedure. See how the congregation debate was going. Did the Environment Committee ever discuss this law? It's not. He didn't even meet. Given these things, I'm absolutely convinced that you haven't even read this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37159	Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37160	This is what I end up with. I really don't want any more, this is getting a little bit pointless. The parent board for this law is the Committee on Agriculture and it has been considering this law. Is there a need to discuss a law of several committees, it's a matter of matter, of judgment, of understanding, but it's not a question of knowing things. When it comes to knowing things, the parent board for this law is the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37161	Mr. Dimitrievich, you have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37162	Mrs. Kolundjia, I appeal to the current Rules of Procedure, which you once again have brought back, and I urge you to read the Articles 56 and 61, so you will see what is whose jurisdiction. As to whether or not we respect the Rules of Procedure, show me where Article 56 states that the Committee on Agriculture has jurisdiction over hunting, fishing and forestry. Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure? Are we obliged to stick to the Rules of Procedure in the work of the National Assembly? Look what article 61 says. Who are you kidding here? What are you talking about? About respecting the law? Here's how we respect the law. We don't respect the laws you've passed, and you're talking about respecting the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37163	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Yeah. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37164	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, the Ministry of Agriculture presented 15 laws to the MPs in 2009, while another 13 laws arrived in the Assembly. In the past ten years, only five laws in the field of agrarians have been discussed in this respected home. We have a very clear goal and a very clear agrarian policy. Our agrarian policy is that every dinar we have from the budget is used to help family registered agricultural land and end with it, that every law that is passed in this esteemed home is in line with the best European practice and common European agrarian policy. Every regulation that comes out of our ministry is our effort and contribution to helping a Serbian farmer in these difficult times of economic crisis. I must, first of all, thank the MPs who have contributed to improving the quality of the law on hunting and savages with their amendments, to thank the hunting alliances that have worked closely with us on the adoption of this law, but don't blame me for, in the end, making one personal impression, which is that sometimes we allow politics to be above the interest of what we all advocate, which is that people live better and that some area is arranged in such a way that everyone who is interested in that area can do their job better, get more and be happier, and the state is more regulated. I know that very often the conversations that take place in the halls of our Parliament take place in a far more friendly atmosphere than those that are happening here, but I think that, for the sake of our own reputation and the reputation of this institution, the reputation of all state institutions is very important that the atmosphere that should represent work, pawnage and constructive proposals, to what extent we pass on both here and thus show our people in Serbia that perhaps we are in different political options does not mean that we do not all want to improve this country. I sincerely believe that every man who takes his place here and represents the tribunal, the voice of the people from the part of Serbia from which he came, wants the best of his country. For this reason, it is normal for us all to work as a team and the Ministry of Agriculture will continue to work in this way. We try to accept every good proposal regardless of party belongings, to work well with relevant congregation committees, and to make any request, any request for information, spotless, friendly, and in the best interest. I'd like them to perform in the next session here in the Assembly, when we're waiting for a set of laws of which one part applies to international conventions that we have to accept, we work in that spirit. The laws are already in front of you and you can read them. Be free to propose changes that will make these laws better. Thank you again for your cooperation and I hope to see you as soon as possible, because there's a big job ahead of us. Agriculture represents about 60% of the legislation and sub-legislative regulations that we must adopt on our way to the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-17-0.u37165	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for both you and your associates. I'm concluding a search of the Wildlife and Hunting Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 hours with a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific Action. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you, gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. On the basis of the official record of the presence of Members of the People's Parliament, I find that 103 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notification in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Let me just let you know that, in accordance with Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure, defined as the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group Vladimir Milentijevic, and the MP groups "New Serbia" Aleksandra Jankovic. Mr. Nikola Krpić picked up the phone. Here you go.
