ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42612	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions necessary for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a MEP OF THE COURT OF THE Constitutional Court you have received a proposal for a candidate for the selection of the Constitutional Court judge, who has submitted the President of the Republic, with the biographical data of the candidates, as well as the consent of the candidates to accept the candidacy. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of each parliamentary group, and that is: Parliament group 'For European Serbia' - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group of SRS - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group 'Forward, Serbia' - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group DSS – Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; MEP group SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group 'New Serbia' - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Salanik group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and MEPPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes each. I ask all MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would also like to inform you that, according to this agenda item, the SRS parliamentary group will represent MP Zoran Krasic. I ask other parliamentary groups, if they have authorised representatives for this point, to deliver them, so that I can inform the National Assembly of who is the authorised representative of the parliamentary groups. In accordance with Article 180(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42613	The National Assembly received a proposal from the President of the Republic, as an authorised proposing, to elect judges of the Constitutional Court. Let me just remind you what kind of procedure this is. The National Assembly elects five Constitutional Court judges from the list of 10 candidates, which it submits, as an authorised representative, the President of the Republic. Since he suspended the term of office of one of the Constitutional Court judges elected by the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, as a state body and an authorised proposing, submitted a proposal and, of course, proposed two candidates, and the National Assembly of these proposed candidates should select one. The first candidate proposed by the President of the Republic to the National Assembly is Mr Sabahudin Tahirovic, Judge of the Supreme Court in Novi Sad. That's what this proposal says. But it's a man from New Varoshi. He's a senior court judge in Novi Sad for a few months. Prior to that, he was in the Youth Association, so when DOS came to power, he was chosen by some miracle as an expert court associate in Novi Varosha. Later, by some planetary miracle, he was elected judge. People in Novi Varosha were simply surprised when he was first elected judge, since his work résumé does not indicate that there is some interesting experience in legal affairs. But, well, it's the President of the Republic now. He is authorized to offer, and the Assembly is obliged to choose. The Assembly is obliged to assess what the Constitution prescribes, and the Constitution prescribes that each citizen, a graduate lawyer with 40 years of life and 15 years of legal experience, can be chosen for a judge of the Constitutional Court. The question is, does this candidate even have so much legal training? Now, I'm opening that topic, so let the parliamentary majority think. However, he can think about another candidate, and that is Enver Niksic, assistant director-general of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance. As far as I can tell from his work résumé, he almost never passed any individual legal act. He's been working on some normative business in some businesses in New Market. Also, by some miracle and apparently political combination, it reached Belgrade and some of its functions at the PIO Fund. You also assess whether there is any working experience that is necessary for someone to act as Judge of the Constitutional Court. We of the SRS parliamentary group feel that the conditions have not been met, because, hand to heart, these candidates I would not accept to be secretaries of the agricultural cooperative. Maybe my personal sense cheats, I don't argue that that's how someone can experience what I'm saying, but the work biographies they've offered themselves show it. Now I would just like to warn the MPs, and to inform the President of the Republic if it follows this transfer, that we need serious candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, regardless of who proposes them, and when proposing the National Assembly and when proposing the President of the Republic and when proposing the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court. Why do I have to point this out? Because we have to appeal to experience. Since 24 November 2007, a painful, long-term job has taken place -- how to complete the composition of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. I assume you remember that ten judges were elected at the end of 2007, and it was completed only a few months ago with four others, perhaps in the meantime the fifth, appointed by the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court of the Republic of Serbia. I think we've got very unquality candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. We have today applied for the resolution of the president and judge of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Bose Nenadic, for violating the ban on conflict of interest. I assume you know that the Constitutional Court judge, apart from receiving a salary as judge of that court, can only be engaged in law school in the Republic of Serbia. We have a violation of that ban with many judges of the Constitutional Court. She is also a member of the review committee for passing a judicial exam, teaches in Banja Luka, is a member of various associations, an associate in the publication of some magazines, where as author's texts the Constitutional Court's decisions. The point is, the Constitutional Court judge can get paid, and he can't take compensation on the side. Some candidates have that, too. These two proposals probably don't belong to that group because they don't have scientific papers. The one who was a judge in the meantime probably made some judgment in life, and the other one hardly signed a solution as an official person. That has to be taken care of. Because you saw for yourself that the main theme of our Constitutional Court is how to put on those uniforms as waiters from a fish restaurant, to put on those chains, which does not entirely fit the tradition in the Republic of Serbia. With us judges, when they perform their duties as judges, they do so in civilian suits. They're not cops, they're not soldiers, they're not conductors, they're not anything. But in this process of Euro-Atlantic integration, copying appears as a pattern, so something that exists. Someone would probably want to be an English queen, but in Serbia, it's hard to be an English queen. Such a tradition does not exist, but if we refer to the tradition of the kingdom, then you know how kings have changed. When most of them passed the Constitutional Court Act, they also made a kind of ring around the Constitutional Court from the perspective of the possibility of stopping the position of the judge of the Constitutional Court. It is a great lack of our law because this law guarantees them a completely unacceptable untouchable untouchability. Can you imagine that there is no reason to resolve — intricacies? Because by definition, when the National Assembly elects someone to judge the Constitutional Court, it is the highlight of this profession and that no one has the right to challenge expertise. Here, with these two candidates I've shown you, their working biographies show that they don't have that expertise that is necessary, or minimally necessary, for a judge of the Constitutional Court. Think about it, so don't be surprised what decisions are made by the Constitutional Court. We can justifiably suspect that some decisions are in favour of those who do not want Serbia well. There are also professional mistakes, like this crazy decision where passive voting law is treated as an absolute right. The right to be chosen is treated as the right to be elected. It's a disaster. Half of the Constitutional Court judges wrote something completely different in their scientific papers, and because of a decision by the Constitutional Court, they have trampled their scientific and professorial careers. And they wrote good books and taught students in a very good way. That's why we need to be careful. I think politics is deeply involved in the proposals here. I'm not going to enter which coalition partner has exerted some influence, it wouldn't be good to say the pressure, but the impact on the president of the Republic to propose these two candidates, which are quite obvious they're not that caliber. I remind you, a few months ago, the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court appointed him Judge of the Constitutional Court of Man who until a few months ago served as Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Assembly elected him, as the first time a man in his life was elected judge of a administrative court, for a judge of the Administrative Court with a three-year deadline. So, we've chosen an intern judge here, and the Supreme Cassation Court has appointed him Judge of the Constitutional Court. What kind of expertise is that, my people? Where's the work experience? It's some sort of combination. That combination appears as a boomerang. I don't argue that you have 126 so you can do anything, but that doesn't mean everything needs to be trampled out. We need judges of the Constitutional Court of Professional Authority, not to give authority to pull out of their uniforms, robes, uniforms. I'm just surprised they didn't throw in any more wigs. That seems funny in Serbia. Unfortunately, that's how it's gonna be, the way they're going. By overstepping some of the law's powers, they put themselves into the Rules of Procedure to prescribe their own uniforms. And what kind of uniform did they choose? Barbaric from the fish restaurant – blue-black, 'royal blue' etc. It's not my fault you weren't informed. Take a walk on the sites and see. The main theme at the beginning of the Constitutional Court was the subtle details of the uniform - whether they would be the right lines, whether they would match both the male and the female, whether someone would wear a collage with a coat of arms where the Constitutional Court wrote. Everyone has to stand still when the President of the Constitutional Court comes in. We don't need that kind of authority, we need authority in decision-making. A team before these people do their duty as judges, because there's no perseverance. They are not, in a formal and legal sense, judges like judges of other courts. They've got their mandate. The right judges are subject to the principle of sustainability, and they rarely discuss individual rights very rarely. They're more concerned with general acts. The exception is only that constitutional appeal, which we have introduced into the Constitution just to prevent the highlands of submissions, petitions that would go to the European Court of Human Rights. Unfortunately, it wasn't stopped. The European Court of Human Rights is covered by submissions and petitions by citizens of the Republic of Serbia who do not believe in the legal system and address the fourth instance. We need professional quality, professional authority, not meeting some needs. It's pretty obvious what need it is, who needs to be satisfied, who needs to calm down. She's probably hiding something. There's probably some kind of trade. I can't argue because I'm not an eyewitness, and I don't want to be an eyewitness, but it wouldn't surprise me, given some of the behaviors that are registered by the Anti-Corruption Agency, where there are some data, which the Agency also says, that certain state officials are using that contract service position in the Republic of Serbia's budget to leave jobs to independent craftsmen who are not in the VAT system to get their money out – 20% to the account, and 80% to some civil servant. We can say - it's not like that, there's talk, etc. The state needs to check it out. In this issue of the election of a Constitutional Court judge to the vacant place from that quota chosen by the National Assembly, the National Assembly should objectively look at and say whether these two proposed candidates are essentially meeting the conditions to be elected, that one of them be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court. With the first candidate, it is even a question of whether they have met this condition of 15 years of employment in legal affairs at all, and with both candidates there is a real question of whether they are essentially meeting the conditions of profession, expertise, professional knowledge so that they can be judges of the Constitutional Court, where they should be caught up and that many things are regulated with their decisions in order to ensure respect for the Constitution and the law. I'm saying these two aren't capable of doing it. It will not be more important to assist an expert associate in a court of law who would write them papers if one of them were to be a reporter as the elected judge of the Constitutional Court. Simply, they cannot understand the matter that is subject to the work of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. And since they can't understand, there's no way they can write their own opinion, because they don't know this matter. The Constitutional Court can't be an intern at work. It's the highlight of a legal career. The top of his legal career is a regular professor of law school and judge of the Constitutional Court. There's no more than that. There's only an academic, but that's something else. What the President of the Republic wanted to please, what he wanted to calm down with such proposals, I don't understand. Obviously there is little and there is a problem, but it is not a problem for our Rules of Procedure, but it is necessary to think about it in the future, when a new Rules of Procedure is done, that it is not enough to write something on only a few pages, a statement that a candidate is accepted, a man writes his own biography. Well, he can't. Here, this other man's biography is seven incomplete lines, 65 words. With 65 words, the man introduced himself and said what was his work résumé to be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court. Please, what's this about? I can understand that someone is very intelligent, that from these seven lines they can understand the background of great expertise, but they have to be written, to be said. Once in his life, he submitted a motion to assess the constitutionality of a law, or the legality of a regulation, or belonged to a citizen association, so he wrote a constitutional complaint on behalf of Pera, Djoke, Mike or Lasse. People in New Varosha laugh when they read this. A few days ago, I was in Nova Varosha, I had a promotion of the book Vojislav Seselj's "Police File" and people heard of this proposal and said, "I don't want to talk here about all the jokes being handed over in Nova Varosha about when he was elected judge in Nova Varosha." That's what you DS know, that's what you from G17 plus you know, ask your members. One of your guys was on a promotion, so he told me. But what it's worth, a man can't get to Tadic. He also told me who cheated on him, but I don't want to speak that name, it doesn't matter. That's what this is about, people. There's no policy in this discussion. There is only a need here to provide quality candidates and quality judges of the Constitutional Court. What we now have (all honour to individuals, exceptions), a good number of them do not meet the conditions to work in the Constitutional Court. The National Assembly is a place where criticism can be made at the expense of the Constitutional Court. We don't go into their decisions, we don't comment on their decisions, but we point to something, and it's a violation of the conflict of interest, and we open up the question of whether some people have the capacity to perform their duties as judge of the Constitutional Court. I specifically cited what we did today and what we submitted. I expect, Mrs. Comic, that when you receive a request to resolve Dr. Bose Nenadic, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, allow these procedures to be implemented and that you know these things and citizens hear better about why the Constitutional Court makes such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42614	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42615	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first like to tell you that I am ashamed to be forced as an MP today to discuss such an important topic in this atmosphere. I think we share that feeling, crossing boundaries that separate power from opposition. Since very often, practically, we stress the need to affirm the institution of Parliament, I think this is one of the evidence that, in fact, nothing in particular changes in this defeating relationship between the government in this country and Parliament, but also in all other institutions. So it defines an unacceptable relationship with people who live in this country, to candidates who, for example, are now running for the Constitutional Court, to those who run for office, and with this poor practice, we have to stop. I am sure that we could count on the fingers of one hand the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who can even repeat the names of the persons the President of the Republic has run for judges of the Constitutional Court of this country. It is an insult to the Constitutional Court, it is their personal humiliation, but it is, above all, a blow to the democratic order in this country. And he is right, MP Krasic, when he says that failure to comply first with this constitution, which was brought in a shameful way, which probably results in people running for such important functions as the functions of judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Six and a half rows should serve as the basis for our rational judgment on whether one candidate is good enough to be elected judge of the Constitutional Court. How will the MPs vote in this assembly based on these six and a half sentences? What do they know about this candidate? Were those six and a half sentences passed to us to hide its quality or because there's nothing positive about that candidate to say? If it is the right thing to do first, why are Parliament being denied all the values of the man who has reached the candidate for the Constitutional Court judge? And if there is no quality, and that can't be written, why does the President of the Republic suggest such a candidate? How far are we gonna go with that kind of policy? We form institutions, and then we don't know what to do with these institutions in situations where they are exposed to the pressure arising from their constitutional obligations. We here in the Assembly have chosen protectors for minority communities, not national minorities, but the equality of minority communities. All the candidates passed what kind of "hiring", a conversation with members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on which they explained the reasons for their candidacy and answered some of the questions that the Committee members could ask if they wanted to. I did something like that myself, and I wasn't lonely. On what grounds can we plead today? On what grounds can we get a decent hearing? Do we need her? Look at the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. The Court of Justice shall decide on the consent of the laws and other general acts with the Constitution, the general rules of international law and the approved international contracts. For example, we will ask the Constitutional Court to state whether the law on aiding the construction industry is in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement or not. Can this candidate even make a statement about it? We're interested in his opinion before the vote. The Constitutional Court agrees with the approval of international contracts, the consent of other general acts with the law, the consent of general acts of organisations entrusted with public authority, political parties, trade unions, associations of citizens, collective agreements with the Constitution and the law. The Constitutional Court resolves the conflict between the jurisdiction of courts and other state authorities, resolves the conflict of jurisdiction between the republican and regional authorities, resolves the conflict of jurisdiction between the province authorities and the local self-government authorities and so on. The Constitutional Court is one of the country's crucial institutions. The foundation of this democracy we create is the Constitutional Court. What kind of foundation is that if we lay it like this? What are we going to get as a consequence of that? A whole series of nonsense, compromise. And when a democratic order is compromised, what is offered as an alternative? We have all had problems defining and positions of the Constitutional Court in this country and Parliament's relations with the Constitutional Court or the relations of the executive authority with the Constitutional Court. There was always this mistake. Some norms were respected, judges of the Constitutional Court were elected, and then they passed over a whole series of failures, illogicalities, and mistakes that had serious consequences. In 2003. The Constitutional Court wrote one opinion Monday and made one decision on the justification of excluding DSS MPs from parliament and the other Thursday. The country's constitutional court has not responded to the opposition agreement of the Republic of Serbia with the Russian Federation in the field of energy. The country's constitutional court has destroyed the country's political system with its lack of knowledge of political life by a meaningless norm under which the order of candidates on the list must be respected when the post-election term is granted. Then how can you possibly lead a serious political life in this country? Does this degrade those who achieve good results and are not in advance on the electoral lists? How can the coalition share mandates? This can't work and we have a problem in every election procedure after that Constitutional Court decision. And on the other hand, where it should show authority to protect the integrity of its own institution, he did not do so, but made an unsustainable decision, under which it is possible not to apply the Anti-Corruption Agency Act to the MPs of the duchy parliament because they were elected in one situation, and then a state of legal uncertainty came out of some new solution. Why did he not respond to the Construction Planning Law, which completely destroyed legal security? The MPs know that, especially from the Justice Committee. This country's constitution says there's no retroactiveity. The country's law has given rights to investors, hundreds of millions of euros have been invested in assets that were subsequently, after a few years, threatened by the new Construction Planning Act, which the state has said – that we have sold you no longer applies, we are changing the rules now, so you have to buy what you bought again. The Constitutional Court didn't react to that. What constitutional court do we have? Where's he pickin'? What was crucial, a profession or a family bond? We never had a chance to talk about it. What was crucial about these two candidates? That's what we're interested in. We put our lives in the hands of the Constitutional Court judge. There's no one else to do it anymore. Politicians - the people should not trust us. The people are supposed to expect results from us. Our authorities are political. The country must not rest on political authority. The earth must rest on more lasting values. Look at us. We're so shifty. One of the MPs is left without a mandate because it corresponds to the ruling majority, and the apostle learns it by coming to the door of the congregation, so he cannot enter because they say to him, you are no longer an apostle. And for the second time, an MP can remain an MP and his resignation is not activated, although it has been previously done, because it again corresponds to a ruling majority. During the period of government of Vojislav Kostunica, the Constitutional Court made decisions by which the MP is the owner of the mandate if the opposition MP moves into the ranks of the ruling coalition, and if the MP of the ruling Kostunica's party moves into the DS, then he remains without a mandate. These are all the consequences of such an irresponsible relationship with one such institution. How are we gonna handle this? In what way will we unblock the political life in this country, which has been destroyed, mutilated by the populist, unprofessional, superficial decision of the people completely uninformed in the matter they've decided on? What did they run for office to discuss in such a way as, say, the law on the election of councilors and MPs? How is it possible in one Boru, who has 35 candidates for committees, to run a serious campaign if the first two, three or five are known to be committees, and all others cannot be? What consequences will this leave for our political life? How are we going to form election lists in the next election? Either we will have laws again or we will have our own rules, so we will no longer be subject to enveloped resignations, but will resignations be written under pressure, by being blackmailed in some other way? That's what we want to break up with. I need the sun's serious judges of the Constitutional Court. These people may be great, but we don't even know what they look like. We don't know anything about them. Nothing but six and a half rows for one candidate. For others, we know that he worked in the "Ras" factory from 1977 to 1978, that he worked in the Self-Governmental Interested Community of Primary Education and Education, Culture, Physical Culture and Information of the municipality of Novi Pazar from 1979 to 1990, we know that he later worked in the Municipality of Novi Pazar from 1990 to 2006 and then moved to the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Independent Activities. That's what we know. I'm interested in what his relationship to genetic engineering is, I'm interested in what his relationship to the right person of the same sex is to enter into the marriage community, I'm interested in what his relationship to a whole series of problems exist in our daily lives and are not solved. Let's say, as president of a party, I'm interested in what his relationship to an unsustainable norm the Constitutional Court claims, under which order on the list obliges the party to share the mandates in such a way. Kenan Hajdarevic would never be an LDP MP if such a standard had been applied in the past. What would run him for it? He was running for his score. Free Maras was John Doe, an anonymous person. He would never have been elected an MP. He was running for his score. We in our party make simple decisions. The result is the only reference. And we don't cheat on anybody like that. How are we going to share our mandates now? So, I'll be the bearer of the list, so I'll have my first term, and then, if I don't put in second place, as a woman, Vice President Micic or Vesna Pesic or Judith Popovic, then half the campaign will be whether or not we have a fight, and if we so divide the mandates between ourselves, it will be a matter of what happens to the whole party, and that, Mrs. Komic, is a disaster. It's an exorcism of life from politics. Who decided that? What referents have decided that? What were they working in? Whose party robes did they come out of? We can't act like a congregation like that. Last year, the Constitutional Court confirmed the constitutionality of the Law on the Election of Judges. Confirmed, rejected the appeal of the Society of Judges who complained of re-election, and said – it is not about re-election of judges, it is about the choice of judges. We, as Parliament, have passed the law, and now this institution is accounted for, by political order and by the patronage of the government, with the Supreme Court of Cassation and the High Council of the judiciary, asking them to break the law and write arguments for re-election even though it is about choice. Well, you can't explain to someone who wasn't chosen, I guess it explains why someone was chosen. Why does that seem? Because anything is possible. It is possible to walk from the president's office into the cabinet of the President of the High Court of Cassation with a tape recorder in his pocket and record conversations without clearing it up. It is possible by avalanche to bury our public for days so as not to ask a fundamental question – what can Simovic and Kalenic say about the murder of Zoran Djindjic? What kind of land do we live in, and what will be the consequences? We once faced the consequences of a policy that never said it had bad intentions, but that showed ambition to live life instead of all of us. What do we need the Assembly if we don't decide anything, if we need to work here now? Where are the presidents of the parliamentary groups? There's only Mrs. Kolundji. And Martinovic came out of the radicals. Is this not an important topic? Look, the Constitutional Court decides mostly on the key issues of our lives. We change the system without any order and build institutions in such a way that they can only collapse. It's too arbitrary to tolerate. The year 2007 was the deadline for completing the Constitutional Court's composition. Is that what happened? In accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. For three years, it's been squirming, squirming, squirming, messing around. People fought to get something out of it. I don't think everyone has a bad intention, but I think we owe it, that we could say – Mr President, do you need any help in your efforts to create European values in Serbia? If you don't need help, if you think you can do it yourself, then you're wrong. Now you need help. The whole of America was discussing Sonja Sotomajor when she was elected Judge of the Supreme Court of America. The first representative of the Latino population in America. She had to talk about everything in Congress. All of her convictions have been analysed. It's what America's been doing for days. This builds the authority of the Constitutional Court. And what do we know about the President of the Constitutional Court? What do we know about the Constitutional Court judges? What do we know about these people who are candidates? We don't know anything. We can expect it tomorrow, we as Parliament, from the Constitutional Court – one thing nothing. Maybe those who know something about it have the right to expect it, but then it's the life of isolated institutions. Then what would we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court? What would we, who campaigned against such a bad constitution, constantly encourage you to respect the Constitution? Because it's the only system we have. If We bring it down, then what will be the order of our relations? Who is faster, who is stronger, who is more unscrupulous? It's a mob then, it's a pack, and then it's not a life in an orderly civil society. That's why we need to talk about this seriously. This can't stop, but I suggest you let us at least see the photos of these people. Get them out of the paper. Maybe he'll come here to the Assembly, and we won't know who they are, we won't get back to them. We'll walk past them like security in the hallway. I think with these humiliations, we should all break up together and see what we can do to change that. I was a witness when the President of the Constitutional Court asked the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister answered that question – that is not normal; be the judge of the Constitutional Court, I am the Prime Minister. We could not find any judge in this country who would apply the country's decisions and laws when the process of extradition of Slobodan Milosevic was launched to The Hague tribunal. No judge wanted to do his job. How can we fight problems in this country if we don't have strong institutions? And we do nothing to make them that way. We've launched so many initiatives in front of the Constitutional Court, in front of the Antimonopoly Commission... What's the Antimonopoly Commission doing now? There's something he has to say about the news case, and what does he have to say? Which way to turn? What did she get herself into? That's not how it works. We don't have a Constitutional Court, because what I just said proves something like that. We've got a building, we've got people in that building that wear thongs, they're trying to look wise, but it's not like that. Who were they consulting when they made this decision to allocate their mandate? How long are we going to allow fees? It's like Katarina Rebracha and that charity fund of hers. We have the same thing in the political system. They write you a law, so when you want to operate under that law, I mean the law on a proportional electoral system, Serbia one electoral unit, local elections -- the municipality is one electoral unit, and then they write a new law and they say no, now the municipality will be divided into a hundred electoral units, and the mandates will be divided by results. Well, it won't be divided by results. The mandates will be divided on the basis of the list, because that is how the Constitutional Court decided. And you can have as much as you want, Mrs. Komic, the result in Novi Sad and the entire constituency can vote for you, if you're not in the place where you have to be on the election list, you won't be elected. How do we change that now? What do we do? The people are not interested in this Constitutional Court. People don't care about that. Those involved in politics don't care. They say, "It is not the Constitutional Court; it is your plot and your intrigue; you have divided there among yourselves, by your grandmother and by your uncles. Well, is it by any chance that these candidates are from Sandzak? What exactly was Sandzak running for? Everyone's got to have one, right? I think we should stop it. First, we'll talk about it openly. When Ivica Dacic came to the police, it became clear how important it was to have a professional police force. When Boris Tadic became defence minister, then it became clear how important it was to have a professional army. When we won October 5th, it became clear what was the fate of a government that had no professional state. What do we do to build it? We're not showing anything. If this is the case with the Constitutional Court, what would be a more serious competition for selecting the director of a public enterprise? We kill ourselves to prove that it's important, and they say, "Wait, you want to do something here in City Cleanness that you can't do in the Constitutional Court." I don't know how to vote for these people. We don't know anything about them. We can say we trust the president at his discretion, but we would agree with an unacceptable procedure that destroys this Constitutional Court. That's why we're going to make the decision, I mean, in our parliamentary club, but my personal position is that we can't support this, because one must break up with such a relationship with key institutions in this society -- to Parliament, the Constitutional Court, the High Council of the judiciary, the High Court of Cassation, to all other institutions, the Anti-Monopolitan Commission, the Citizens' Protector and everything that exists, what we have done and what we step on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42616	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of DSS and SRS. The first to be reported on the list is National MP Donka Banovic, followed by a folk MP, Verica Radeta. Since Donka Banovic has not arrived yet, do you agree that Verica Radeta's MP gets the word, then Donka Banovic? Yeah. ) All right, then the First People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet, followed by Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42617	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the age of three, we are in a position to finally complete the composition of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Or, we should say – thank God, better ever than never. However, if we have in mind the proposal we're discussing here today, the fact that the Constitutional Court was doing what the President of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court did during this period, then we can really conclude that it was better in that period when we didn't have a Constitutional Court at all. It's famous, and we need to remind ourselves that we're in these 10 so-called. The democratic years have been without the Constitutional Court twice in almost two years. What is happening now is, I think, more catastrophic, because now, under some kind of institutional cloak and framework, we have a catastrophic violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The motions of the President of the Republic are two candidates for the Constitutional Court Judge. It's amazing what my colleagues were saying before me, that when we talk about the Constitutional Court, we're talking about two completely anonymous names, unknown to lawyers, unknown to science. What did these people do to qualify for the Constitutional Court judges? This, indeed, would be ridiculous if it weren't sad. I don't know who Mr. Enver Niksic is, I don't even know who Mr. Sabahudin Tahirovic is, but what they wrote about themselves doesn't really run for the secretary of any public enterprise, let alone for such a high state office. Imagine, the director of the Ras shoe factory, Novi Pazar Mr. Enver Niksic, says that "as the only lawyer among 750 employees, he immediately performed the work of the secretary of this factory". Is it because he was very professional or because, as he says, he was the only lawyer? Then he was in the Self-Governmental Interest Community of Primary Education and Education, and he says, "As I was the only lawyer, I did all the work of institutions... ''This is truly amazing, that because he was the only lawyer on some, without intent to offend the people and functions they worked on, but this is truly insignificant for the stairs to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. There is nothing better than the biography of Mr. Sabahudin Tahirovic, who was the director of the Youth Cooperative in Novi Varoša, so the representative of the DDOR and the decision of the High Council of the judiciary was also elected Judge of the Higher Court in Novi Sad. The question is whether or not he started to do anything, given that these reforms and these appointed judges have not yet been stalked according to what we were promised here. Why do we doubt the good intentions of the President of the Republic? Because the constitutional court is in fact the constitutional court of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic. One was elected and the congregation majority proposed, the other was proposed by the congregation’s majority and he was elected. We never had any argument that we could really discuss the candidates of the President of the Republic properly. Of course, when we said that the Constitutional Court would be a party constitutional court, then we were condemned by the congregation's majority. Today, thanks to the Constitutional Court, we have a complete chaos in political life in Serbia, a complete chaos in local self-government, because Mrs. Bosa Nenadic, President of the Constitutional Court, has made an unconstitutional decision. And now, regardless of what the Constitutional Court's decision is and what I should say as a lawyer – the Constitutional Court's decision must be respected, me as a lawyer and us as lawyers in the Serbian Radical Party, we all argue that this decision is absolutely unconstitutional. This Constitutional Court Decision repeals certain members of the Law on Local Elections, contrary to Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states in paragraph 2, that MPs can trust their mandates with political parties whose lists have been elected as MPs, and it is simply amazing that someone who is the President of the Constitutional Court, Mrs. Bosa Nenadic, does not know about the Mutatis Mutandis principle, according to which this provision of Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must also apply to the Law on Local Elections. So, what did she do now? A member of the 47th law has put out of force, and this, which has been mentioned earlier, requires that the local elections assign mandates in order, not according to political parties, but normally in a proportionate electoral system to respect the will of the political party that is also running and later proposing both committees and MPs. But what happened? A member of the 48th of the same law has remained in force. And Article 48 says, when the committee ceases its term of office before the end, the term of office belongs to the applicant of the electoral list and the electoral commission assigns that mandate to the candidate from the list designated by the applicant. Now I would like that smart Bossa Nenadic to tell us how and what will be applied - whether Article 47, which she has put out of force, or Article 48, which is in force - in case a committee member expires before he is elected. So it's a complete mess thanks to the unprofessional and party work of the President of the Constitutional Court. This is one of the reasons why the Serbian Radical Party has today applied to the National Assembly for the resolution of the president and judge of the Constitutional Court, Bosa Nenadic. We have also submitted a request to the President of the Republic, to initiate it, in accordance with his constitutional powers and arguments that we have delivered, the resolution of Bosa Nenadic from the post of President of the Constitutional Court. We have submitted this request to the Constitutional Court, or to the Deputy President of the Constitutional Court, who, in accordance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, can and should initiate this procedure. We are truly convinced that Mrs. Bosa Nenadić, and by being at the head of the Constitutional Court, she casts a shadow on the entire Constitutional Court, and of course on these candidates, which 126 green tasters will choose as judges of the Constitutional Court. Probably people who vote will only vote because they respect party discipline, and they have no idea who they're actually voting on. What do we have these days? Mrs. Bosa Nenadic in the media says she will propose to amend the Constitutional Court Act because the Constitutional Court has many cases. Is that normal? Is it normal for him to change the law because there are a lot of objects? So, what happens to those items when the congregation majority here changes her law? Who's he gonna hand them over to? Where's he gonna throw them? Mrs. Bosa Nenadic thinks that for being a Constitutional Court judge, it's enough to hang up on yourself and put some on, God forbid me what kind of uniform or whatever it looks like, and that's enough for her to be an authority both in the Constitutional Court and in the state of Serbia. Such an SRS cannot be an authority. Authority comes in a different way. It's acquired by knowledge, it's gained by impartiality, it's gained by dignity. Is that Mrs. Bossa Nenadic's got? Of course not. She's in a complete conflict of interest. She works wherever a dinar can be made, from a lecture at one of the universities in Banja Luka to the authors of texts published in the magazine "Legal Informor", whose publisher is the company "Intermex" from Belgrade, she is subject to judicial and professional examinations, etc. All these are functions that are paid, and that is absolutely contrary to the provisions of the Constitutional Court Act. By forcing Bosa Nenadic's fellow judges of the Constitutional Court to go into the O.R. before her, where the Constitutional Court sits, so when she enters, that all students must stand up, greet her in a calm manner, she thinks she's being imposed as an authority? Of course not. Bossa Nenadic showed, through her biography, that she was always, in fact, serving the system. Today serves Boris Tadic's regime. She also served when she worked in Ante Markovic's office, so Milan Panic. And then she just served the regimes, never showed that she was professional or worthy. Why, among other things, have we submitted these suggestions? Because all this is stated, and we believe that we will have the opportunity to discuss this, that you will put this proposal on the agenda, proves that in the case of Bosa Nenadic, there has also been a permanent loss of working ability for the office of the Constitutional Court judge. We are all saying this in the context of these proposals today, because it is impossible to believe that both Sabahudin Tahirović and Enver Niksic, or one of them who will be voted by the ruling majority today, are not here by recommendation and agreement between Bosa Nenadic and Boris Tadic, who is obviously interesting, for some of his known reason, that we have this kind of chaos in local self-government and trade committees today. A completely open committeeman who passes into the ruling coalition, he or his wife or child, gets a seat on some board of directors. A paid place, of course. The absolute trade in all local self-governments in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is because the Constitutional Court that we have today is the constitutional court of the Boris Tadic regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42618	The used time of the parliamentary group is 13 minutes and 20 seconds. The People's MP Donka Banovic has the word, followed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42619	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Today, as the second item of the agenda at this extraordinary session, we have a proposal from the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. The proposal consists of two candidates for the selection of the Constitutional Court judge, based on the Constitutional Court Act which provides for such procedure. So the Assembly should choose between these two candidates. The first candidate is, or number one, Mr. Sabahudin Tahirovic, who has recently performed his post, if any, Judges of the Supreme Court in Novi Sad. I said, "if he's doing it at all," because since December of last year, our judiciary is mostly standing. Very few judges work, not because they don't have cases, but because of a very bad organization. Another candidate is Enver Niksic, who is currently serving as assistant director-general of the PIO Fund. What does the promoter, or President of the Republic, write to the National Assembly? He says he believes the proposed candidates possess professional and personal qualities based on which they can perform the functions he has proposed them for. In this contribution, we also have the biographies of these candidates. I stress the words that stand in this argument, which are - to possess professional and personal qualities. These are the criteria or criteria to which this proposal was guided. So, professional and personal quality. The happiness of these candidates is that they didn't come into the hands of the High Council of the Judiciary. Of course, they choose by the second law. However, if they were by chance the subject of considering the High Council of the Judiciary, then the High Council of the Judiciary would apply this famous legal formula, consisting of three elements, which is that the candidate must possess expertise, dignity and training. If we analyse these criteria and criteria, then it turns out that the candidates who proposed the Constitutional Court Judges had slightly lighter criteria and criteria than any of those judges who had passed or failed to re-election for basic courts, more courts, etc., because there was a formula - famous expertise, dignity and training. So again, I say, they were lucky that the High Council of the Judiciary didn't analyze them. When most of them vote, I assume it's tomorrow, she'll decide who the Constitutional Court judge will be. I ask the Secretary of the Assembly and the Assembly to deliver to the candidate who has not been chosen an explanation, which is why the candidate who is not chosen does not meet the criteria, why the second one was chosen, that we would be a little more honest in this whole process and more correct towards these people, that and whoever is not chosen is not and who has been chosen for whom he has been elected and which is why he was a better candidate. This procedure in the Assembly is, in any case, more correct and fairer, because the session is public and can also be citizens and candidates to follow this discussion publicly. But people need to be informed and written. All those who have not passed a clean-up which the government calls re-election or re-election or choice, have not had that happiness, so this kind of correctness or respect for the law, the public in the work, have not experienced. Judges and prosecutors who were not elected, firstly, were unable to follow any discussion because these sessions where it was decided were completely closed to the public, although the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors said the sessions were public. They couldn't even get to the record, but they had to help summon the Commissioner for Public Information to get those records, and they couldn't even see from the record that the High Council of the Judiciary individually discussed each candidate, but some lists appeared there – these will pass, and these won't. So this whole procedure, or this famous re-election, and a lot of things, is a big disgrace and, let me say, a stain for both Serbia and Serbia's judiciary. This item of the agenda is also a good opportunity to talk a little bit about the state of justice in Serbia today and what the results of the reform that has been going on since 2000, but what has been done in the last two years requires a special analysis. I am sorry that the Rules of Procedure did not provide for this, but probably heard by the minister of justice, she has been a minister for two years now, and I hope that she has made some kind of cut in her term of office about what the situation in the judiciary is, following her reforms and reforms of the current government of the Republic of Serbia. When you are making a reform, then you should try to, because you are and you are doing it because you see some irregularities, so you want something better, you need to analyse what we had, and what we got from this great reform that is under way, whether the government in Serbia is really trying to build a legal state and whether there is a rule of law in Serbia. You know, you all talk a lot about trying to build a legal state. When I say you, I mean power, God forbid, and the congregation majority. But according to these moves and everything that's been going on in the past few years in the judiciary, it's not like building a rule of law. It's a lot like decommissioning the rule of law. Even in theory, we all know, and also high school students (they have these items), that the state rests on three independent branches of government, which are: legislative, executive and judicial. It seems that this government and this government have gone under the influence of reform not to create an independent judiciary, or at least not to strengthen it, but at present we have an addictive judiciary and addictive prosecutors. Somehow, that re-election turned into a cleanup of similar judges and similar prosecutors, so that a stain was thrown at people who were re-elected. It is a public secret that in cities, municipal committees made lists of similar judges and prosecutors and that this was delivered to those who decided. It is known even, I think that citizens who deal with politics in the locality know that there have been some problems in harmonising the lists that different parties in the coalition delivered. This one, ours or yours, reform is a subject of serious criticism, both domestic and international professionals. Bill proposals introduced by some reform moves were the subject of criticism and opposition. However, you, somehow by instinct, when we talk about the congregation's majority or the government, what the opposition is saying, throw in the water. You say they only do it to collect political points. But mostly that's not true. If I were you, I'd listen a little more seriously to criticism coming from the opposition when it comes to legal proposals. So, not only did the opposition's MPs criticise those laws, but the domestic professional public also criticised them. However, somehow you paid the most attention when international institutions and organisations were involved and, unfortunately, criticised (I say 'unfortunate' because as a citizen of Serbia, I want everything to work best in this country), i.e. when these criticisms came from international, or European institutions. Justice ministers and the Serbian government spoke, both in writing and in verbal terms, and the Venice Commission, and the European Commission, and the European Association of Judges and the Council of Europe. So, all of these institutions have pointed out the shortcomings and mistakes that occur in this reform and even suggested, gave suggestions on how to remove these mistakes. On behalf of the European Commission, President Barroso addressed the letter, then Stefan File, who was in charge of EU enlargement in the European Commission, also showed that, of course, we already know that the next report will criticise the judiciary unless it removes the shortcomings and accepts the suggestions it has received. The main criticism of European institutions and associations concerns the composition and independence of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors is one of the criticisms. The next is the objectivity of the criteria, as well as the public and reliability of the whole process of re-election or re-election of judges and prosecutors. So these reforms also endanger the process of European integration when it comes to Serbia. What we point out when it comes to European integration is that the greatest benefit from this whole process is reform, that is, by changing the law, but also by changing some other things, Serbia must prepare. So what is practically the greatest benefit from this whole process is compromised and standards are not respected. Again, I stress, the introduction of standards that are proven to be good in some other countries is the greatest benefit. It is a benefit for Serbia, even if it never becomes an EU member. And we stopped doing that, too. Yesterday we had a law here that practically at a small door, or at a large door, legalizes corruption when it comes to construction and construction industry, and everything under the cover of the economic crisis. One of Serbia's biggest problems is corruption. Well, is this law a way for Serbia to fight corruption? But this unconstitutional and illegal re-election of judges and prosecutors and the formation of other institutions is not the only problem of this reform. A new network of courts is also problematic. We also pointed out, when it was this law, I think everyone in their district talked about why it was not necessary to remove municipal courts, which are now some working units, so practically a network of 140 courts became a network of 40 courts, so a hundred courts were abolished, and there was one of the main arguments why it was that it had to be done rationalization and savings. Again, I am sorry that Minister Malovic is not here to tell us what the savings are and whether the exact findings of the judiciary union in Serbia, means the professional union, which warns that a large part of the budget for this year has just been spent on travel expenses and the judges' and prosecutors' diaries. You have many articles about where even people call themselves traveling circuses. There are, therefore, these working units and there are these days in places where municipal courts used to be, but all of this looks like a traveling circus, as judges and prosecutors themselves say. For example, when it comes to Pirot County, you have judges who no longer work in the basic court, the basic court does not exist, so several judges travel to Piroth, and then from Pirota travels, when judging by the days, in the cities of the county, whether it is Babusnica or Bela Palanka or it is the return to Dimitrovgrad. The pyrotic district isn't so scary, because there are only four cities. However, it is much more complicated when it comes to the Kolubar or Rasinski district, where people cross daily large mileages, both lawyers and parties etc. So this move doesn't show that it brings savings. Not to mention how much harder these people are doing, but they don't exactly bring in savings, but there are enormous costs. So one of the questions would be – how many of the budgets for this year have been spent on the travels and diaries of these traveling judicial authorities? Another problem is that some judges are burdened differently. You have an example. One judge in Valjev has as many as 17,000 cases. The other day there was news in the paper that a judge in Krusevec had 27,000 cases. I guess and I hope it's a mistake. This redistribution of the case isn't finished properly yet, but it affects the judiciary, the trials, the cases. For example, you have information that every second-degree judge, the Court of Appeal in Belgrade has 270 cases, that there are 375 cases in Novi Sad, in Kragujevac 105 cases, and in Nis 154. I know it can't be the same number of cases per judge, but they can't and can't have these differences. While the local public, European organisations and professional organisations have pointed to problems and have given their suggestions on how to address certain shortcomings, it is worrying that none of these suggestions have been accepted and that, apparently, this authority has no intention of doing so. Yesterday, you could read in all the newspapers that the Society of Judges and the State's Chief Prosecutors is seeking reception with the President of the Constitutional Court, as well as with the President of Serbia, because tomorrow, unselected judges and prosecutors are ending their working relationship. So they're looking for a reception with the President of the Constitutional Court to see how and if you can get out of this situation. Although, if we know that out of 1,500 cases, as far as the Constitutional Court has received, only one item is solved, then I'm afraid there's no hearing coming out of this problem. It seems that the Republic of Serbia will also experience this government's indignation that the 1,500 unselected judges and prosecutors must seek justice before the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, and given all these criticisms, the odds are that each individual case will be resolved at Serbia's expense. How can we correct the image of the Republic of Serbia if 1,500 judges and prosecutors have to seek their rights in the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg? So, as far as reputation is concerned, I don't know how we're going to fix it if these 1,500 people are actually suing for help because they can't solve the problem in their country, but what I do know is that when these cases start to work out for the benefit of these people and at the expense of Serbia, then all citizens who pay taxes will have to pay out of their own pocket the compensation and those people who get the dispute in Strasbourg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42620	Twenty minutes of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Since National MP Donka Banovic has asked the Secretary-General of the Assembly to explain which one of the judges will not be elected, I remind you of the election procedure and ask you to consult the Rules of Procedure and rules on the selection of the Constitutional Court judges before making a public statement to the secretary or chairman of the Assembly, because that is simply not possible. I also ask other MPs, with full understanding that the agenda item, which bears the title and the subject of the choice of the Constitutional Court judge, implies a broad procedure of topics and comments, that they say something in their presentation about the choice of the Constitutional Court judge. MP Zoran Nikolic, please don't throw it away. (Zoran Nikolic: I want to throw. ) National MP Zoran Nikolic continues to throw away. I warn you, you will be given a warning measure. (Zoran Nikolic: Goodbye.) ) National MP Zoran Nikolic continues to be rude. Please do not compromise the reputation of this House, that you do not behave rudely and do not throw away. Thank you. So, Article 103 obliges us to, no matter how wide the subject is in front of us, say something about the agenda, which is – the choice of the Constitutional Court judge. As far as judicial reform or bodies in Serbia are concerned, there is no direct link to the agenda item called - the choice of the Constitutional Court judge. MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42621	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the Honorable President, the respected citizens of Serbia, are today before us two candidates to fill the Constitutional Court. The president's decision has been awaited for years and, just because we've been expecting these solutions for so long, we expected that there will be such names here before us that in no case can it be doubted that the president of the state will not propose something that we would all support here, regardless of who is the government, who is the opposition. I am sure that my colleagues who are currently in a position are ashamed of this proposal and it is totally unacceptable to me that the President of the Republic could not consult with his legal teams, with MPs, with the people of the High Council, regardless of his decision, because the Constitution states that he has the right to propose a candidate who has 15 years of experience in legal affairs and at least 40 years of life. It is true that it does not say very clearly what other criteria are, but it is understood that when it comes to the Constitution and when it comes to such decisions, they must be the best candidates, the people who have been checked in the profession, the people who have tried for years, who have been in some relevant functions, etc., but in any case, they are defeating these two proposals. I'll apologize in advance to people I don't know. So we have nothing personal against them, nor do we know them, nor do we know who these people are, but these biographies certainly do not guarantee that they will perform this function, which they will likely be elected as soon as they are proposed here, but no matter what, we would expect from the people of the profession in this House who will vote, that this proposal is not supported. The first candidate had a lot of words, Mr Krasic and Mr Cedomir Jovanovic spoke and we would absolutely have no comment there, except that we point out that he cannot possibly be a candidate, regardless, because no day has been in court affairs. There is a certain work in the judiciary with another candidate, but my eye fell out that he was elected Judge of the Great Court in Novi Sad a few months ago. I wonder if it's another one of the miles of those judges that didn't even apply for Novi Sad, and people were going to compete in Valjevo, so they were elected to Pancheva, etc. Is that another one of those candidates that didn't even report to that contest, and they ended up in Novi Sad, so now they don't know how to solve these great trips and how to get out of it all, so let's become the judge of the Constitutional Court. What's the message here for all legal holders? As counterpart Donka Banovic said, tomorrow practically 1,000 people in this country are out of work. They're not selected. Is it possible that among such candidates there were no candidates for the Constitutional Court Judge? Is it possible that the fates of these people in the constitutional appeal will be decided by people who have so little behind them in their careers and now people who have worked in the judiciary for 30 and a few years and will be decided by people who have been in the Republic Pension Fund and so on? It's a shame, it's a shame. I think that the president of the state, no matter how much his powers are, had to really put in front of us better candidates and that, to the satisfaction of all Serbian citizens, we chose the people who would do the job right. What's the message of all this? The message is that the Constitutional Court can also be subject to political trade, from various promises during the elections – if you do not, no problem, you will be the judge of the Constitutional Court. The criteria are really low below each level. This is complete nonsense. We're just talking about working biographies, not getting into whether they're really great people. I believe they are, I suppose they are family people, and good hosts, etc., but first of all, I admire their courage to accept something like this. I also admire those people who served these candidates to the President of the Republic, how they could do such a thing. It must be a certain political compromise. We don't know it at this point, but time will certainly show that these people who are criticizing today are right, and I'm sure all the people who are supposed to make a statement here without taking offense to their leaders, if they had to talk about this, would say the same thing as the representatives of the opposition. Many people who choose these people are not easy and will certainly do it with their heads down, because I believe they agree with us when it comes to these decisions. These days we hear the Constitutional Court overcrowded with constitutional appeals, unable to resolve them. Practically, only a few solutions, when the judges complained, were resolved. Is this the way to speed up these cases? I'm really interested, regardless of what they can't interfere with, what so far elected Constitutional Court judges and the President of the Constitutional Court himself will give, if at all, any comment on such a proposal and possibly future choice. However, anything is possible. When it is possible to propose candidates for the Constitutional Court in this way, then the question is, what happened to all those elections when it comes to a thousand, five hundred, six hundred, seven hundred judges, it doesn't matter anymore. Whatever's going on here, it'll certainly show time. I think there's still time for the President of the Republic to pull this off and consult in a very well-intentioned manner. There are people who certainly deserve these places. It is illogical to skip so many judges in this country who have worked on responsible affairs, because everything that is said in the Constitution about jurisdiction, assessments of constitutionality and legality, assessment of the constitutionality of the law before its entry into force, constitutional complaints, security and enforcement of decisions, the composition of the Constitutional Court, conflict of interest, immunity, practically speaks of a very serious job, talks about people who have to have a huge experience in their business. Once again, I really admire the people who will accept this. They probably expect it to be done there by some professional associates, that they will be only part of the voting machine there in the Constitutional Court, because they decide how to decide, and I'm sure they'll find it difficult to find themselves among the existing judges of the Constitutional Court. It's very hard to talk about people you don't know. It's hard to talk about people who are candidates. I've always tried not to personally hurt anyone, because I don't know who it's about. I don't want to do it this time either. I want to make, in practice, a really big protest that, in this way, with such biographies, goes out to Parliament and I'm really sorry that MPs don't raise their voices against such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42622	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop Lazic, followed by a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42623	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is mostly, as you know, not engaged in personal solutions when it comes to a proposal from the government or, to be more precise, by the executive authority. When the President of the Republic proposes a mandate, so when the prime minister comes out with a proposal to make up his cabinet, we do not deal with whether these people are capable or not. We follow their work and, of course, we wait for a moment when and why we can call them when we are not satisfied with their work and so on. But when it comes to the election of the Constitutional Court judges, then we must really deal with these personal solutions. Because, by definition, the Constitutional Court is the highest judicial authority, and in serious states, a debate is really very serious about who is worthy and who deserves to be the judge of the Constitutional Court or the President of the Constitutional Court, in order to make sure that our Constitution guarantees that the rights will be defended at that judicial instance without talking about a political system, which is also protected by the Constitution and must be preserved by the Constitutional Court's decisions. Unfortunately, we've had a situation that we don't have a Constitutional Court for a year or two, and here we have a situation that, even though we had to have a proposal from the president to fill all the judges of the Constitutional Court in 2007, we're just now getting a proposal from the president. In such a situation, first of all, what should we say about the President of the State, who proposes to us to judge the Constitutional Court and failed to fulfil his duty in time? Let Serbian citizens figure out what he has to do with the obstacles, if he does not respect his constitutional obligation, the Constitutional Court Act. About who he's proposing to us in this situation, I really have to say that he's obviously doing it on some key. But let that key be known only to him, I have nothing against it, this is obviously some uncommunism where we live or some new titoistic time, and we have to deal with it. Not knowing these people, so who it's about, I'm just surprised that they've given consent to accept the candidacy. Look, I'm a graduate lawyer, and I have, I can say, some decent political experience and some legal knowledge, but if somebody said "Gordana Pop Lazic, we'd like you to be the judge of the Constitutional Court," believe me, I'd cross myself left and right and say, "My people, I've never made a verdict in my life; I've only been in the courtroom in two cases, to follow a trial; I can't do that, thank you. It is that in this country everyone thinks they can be selectors, that they can also be patriarchs and presidents of the state, but that says a lot about themselves. So it's this kind of moral side, and it immediately indicates that a man is willing to do everything he's told, because that's, like, imploding to him. That says a lot about his personality. This should be done by some other experts rather than us, but it gives me the right, to us as a parliamentary group, to estimate that it is people who are willing to follow all kinds of orders, because the president of the state has kind of respected them and considered them worthy of being judges of the Constitutional Court. At times, the Constitutional Court judges could only be prominent legal experts. It may be a broad term, but it clearly indicates what it is. It has to be a professor of law school or a long-standing Supreme Court judge once, now the Casation Court. I'll remind you of a time when someone for years was a judge of the Municipal Court, so he had to earn, on the basis of his own urgency and on the basis of the judgments he had made and who had not been shot down, to one day become judge of the District Court, and to become judge of the Supreme Court, many only dreamed. And today someone who's only a year's assistant Director General of the Fund, and apparently prepared for the Director of the PIO Fund, can become a candidate for the Constitutional Court Judge. That those who follow this don't say 'you now have something against being called Enver Niksic or Sabahudin Tahirovic and you won't vote for' – no. Here, let them hear the people that are involved and whether they can trust someone like that or trust him to decide to break one of his constitution's guaranteed rights. If someone said of themselves 'as the only lawyer among 750 employees, I immediately did the work of the secretary of this factory (normal affairs)', he had no one but him, and that it was some reference to him, with a man obviously not something wrong when it came to assessing his professional options. Then, in some SIZ of basic education and education, culture, physical culture, he was also the only lawyer and he did all the work related to the work of the institution in these areas. Everything was one thing. Then, at the City Hall of Novi Pazar, he was head of the General Administration Department. You all know what the general government does in one municipality. Well, the head of the Department of Assembly and Joint Affairs. What was he supposed to do? To organize a session of the Assembly of the Municipality. How much legal knowledge he must have, except that he knows the Law on Local Self-Government, the Statute of the Municipality, the Rules of Procedure of the Municipality. I do not want to read any further, there is nothing further to read about this candidate, but he says - I accept the application for the vacancy of the Constitutional Court judge, who is elected from the list proposed by the President of the Republic, and I believe that I am worthy of my current work results and results in the legal profession of the Constitutional Court judge. Well, it's an honor to him, but that's enough talking about him. Sabahudin Tahirovic. Here is a short biography: ''Diplomed at the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo in 1988; the judicial exam was passed in 1997. He was the director of the Youth Association Nova Varoš and representative of the DDOR Novi Sad until 2001, when he was admitted to the work of an expert associate at the Municipality Court in Novi Varoša. As the judge of the Municipal Court in Novi Varoša, he was elected in 2003. By decision of the High Council of the Judiciary, he was elected Judge of the High Court in Novi Sad' (we don't know when). And he says he's worthy. We believe, no matter who the people are, what they are, let them be moral, that they do not understand what they are supposed to do and that they will be only one voting machine among those 15 judges of the Constitutional Court, whose head is also the person we consider not worthy of being at the head of this high judicial instance - Bossa Nenadic. She showed great intricacies, first of all. She also showed some of her personal traits, which we do not see in the Constitutional Court Act anywhere, and I will explain it in this plastic way, because of those who are following a session of the Assembly – what if this new Rules of Procedure now foresees that MPs must stand up and stand still when the President of the Assembly with vice presidents enters the National Assembly Hall? Look, in The Hague, they also say "get up, get in the judge," but all three come in together, and here all the judges stand calmly in that uniform, with those collages, so that Bossa Nenadic, imagine, would enter. What does that say about that person? Obviously about some frustration. What's the frustration? Again, I'm not in charge of talking about it, but even if they wrote to me in some law that I should do it, I'd say - I can't do it. It's just that she's one of the 15, the first among the equals, and she can't single herself out. The person who doctored on one subject concerning the larger republic and provinces, the person who studied or defended the doctoral thesis on a topic from another time, from another country, where another type of constitutionality was defended, is unable to defend this Constitution and this political system. It's a person who can obviously manage in any system, but not show results. She was good at her and Panic and Anti Markovic and the reform forces and led by some union employees in federal authorities, but although she should know well at least the Constitutional Court Act, she doesn't mind being a professor at Union University. And it can't be. What's he teaching? Insurance rights. Judge of the Constitutional Court. So, what do we actually want? What has been done for years, which is to dissuade all institutions, and the Constitutional Court, and the Government, especially Parliament, because we are representatives of the people, and that this people have no confidence in any state institution. And what does that lead to? He's leading a unstable political situation. To whom is this unstable political situation in favor? The states of Serbia and its citizens certainly do not, but those who want to stir in the state of Serbia and how they contribute. As we had unofficial data from a month ago, that the enhanced operation of various intelligence services, especially the CIA, here in the country, and that their activity was particularly directed towards patriotic political parties, primarily the SRS, and patriotic NGOs, was confirmed yesterday by the BIA director. It may have been our fault that we didn't go public with it earlier, but there were unofficial data, and now we got confirmation, with all these events filling the Belgrade press. Well, gentlemen, let's ask ourselves, where are we going and how do we think to defend this constitution, which is the red letter for us. We don't have another book. We have the Bible, but we also see that this Constitution, which in the most part defends human rights, is in harmony with the Bible. So, if we're going to swear on the Bible or the Constitution, it should be in one serious state anyway. This kind of mistrust, which we express towards the President of the Republic, which has shown the unseriousness and humiliation of the National Assembly by proposing to us such candidates, is, above all, not their personal qualities, but their professional references, again talking about the insecureness of the state. And I don't think it's really an accident anymore. I don't believe in the case anymore. We're here on purpose to destroy anything that can be destroyed. Now they're already talking about how we're going to sell the water line, and how the perfidual way is going to take away our waterworks and how the waterworks are going to divide. It's all off the record, but here we go public. It's sold to Telekom. What serious state can sell Telekom? That's not what nobody sells. That's how the state loses sovereignty. Is that how we deal with this issue here? Did we call the government for this, as representatives of the people? Did we say - amen people, we shouldn't do this, it should remain a state, save at least part of sovereignty? No, I don't. It means that we take our role unrelentingly. Of course, everything depends on the parliamentary majority. We can say what we want, we have, in fact, the obligation to pass on the opinion of the Serbian citizens we represent, we travel through Serbia and people ask us why this or why, and I say – what you ask us, we are here to convey your opinion, call those who vote "yes". I don't want to comment on the Constitutional Court decisions, but what has been done with the re-election of judges with the latest Constitutional Court decision regarding the mandates of the council, speaks enough of how ready the Constitutional Court is to protect the political system of this country. Who are we to go to elections, on whose lists we appear, how did we come up with the most appropriate way to represent all citizens of Serbia? We have translated this into some laws, these laws have entered into force, we have held elections at the bar, some decisions have been made in local congregations, and suddenly Article 47 no longer applies, and there are no instructions of the Constitutional Court what if they were illegal those mandates. What about those decisions that this illegal congregation made? Where is the Constitutional Court now to tell us? Or do we want a total anarchy? Apparently, that anarchy goes in favor of those who came here to break this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42624	19 minutes and 10 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42625	The President-in-Office, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us the item of the agenda entitled - the appointment of Judges of the Constitutional Court, of those five who are proposing to the National Assembly by the President of the Republic. I would call this part of the agenda – the end of the agony of the Constitution of the Constitutional Court. In the consultations at our MP's club, by some logic, it was my duty to talk about this agenda point, because I'm a professor of law school. When I was preparing to expose this subject, I found myself facing a problem because first I had two empty biographies of people who no one knew anything about, and then a whole gene of the constitution of the Constitutional Court and some of its decisions. I feel free to say that the textbooks I read at the Law School, and then the ones I wrote, read nothing about it, and nothing stands as the Constitutional Court was established and what decisions it made, but something else entirely. I'd say the choice of missing judges is just the tip of the iceberg. The problem is much more serious and, in order to illustrate the seriousness of this problem, I will refer briefly to the gene of the Constitutional Court's constitution. I'm going to make a partnership with something that's a tradition in the world, and when I make a comparison, I tend to do it with the best. Let's see what it looks like in the United States and why the United States is what it is. Among other things, because they have sudocracy and what the U.S. Supreme Court is an absolute authority for what is happening in these countries. There, judges of the Supreme Court are elected the best among the best, with a long-standing judicial standing. That is why it is also such an authority, and it is therefore symbolic that the President of the Supreme Court of the United States has a higher salary than the president of the country itself. It's not just symbolism. It is a clear message of what a supreme judicial authority that decides and on constitutional court matters must be in one state. Is that how it is in our country? Of course not, and unfortunately, there is serious evidence for that. What is the genealogy of our Constitutional Court? First of all, we've established the U.S. Constitutional Court because we haven't carried out a judicial reform, so we couldn't name it, or we choose the judges as it stands in the Constitution. On the other hand, the kranj Constitutional Court was also established by the ruling majority bargaining over party quotas, and then the judges of the Constitutional Court were not the ones who were the best, but those who met the party criteria. Is this how the Constitutional Court, which, among other things, was not complete, was competent to decide and make decisions of utmost importance for our country? No, of course not. But that's not a question for us from the opposition, it's a question for those who sit in the benches of the ruling majority and who, unfortunately, have decided on it. And then we have a situation that the Constitutional Court's job is not to decide whether something that is happening in the state is in accordance with the Constitution and the law or not, but obviously the Constitutional Court's job to put suspicious political decisions in the context of the rule of law. Unfortunately, that's right, to the shame of our judiciary and our country at all. Let's illustrate what I'm talking about with one decision of the Constitutional Court. It has almost happened that the Constitutional Court has reached a decision on the return of the parliamentary mandates and on how to appoint a committee. We know what that decision is, and we know how much confusion, inconsistencies and damage it's done to our entire country, especially local self-government. Now let's see what it says in the books of state theory and rights and constitutional law, so we can ask the colleagues of the Constitutional Court – where is the rule of interpretation of the right? We read about it in the first year of law school in a textbook called Introduction to Law. Where is this assessment of the relationship between hierarchically different legal acts? That's what the textbooks say. Did the Constitutional Court judges do that? Where is the alphabet of constitutional law, that the purpose of choice is competition and equal chances for all who are on the lists? Did the Constitutional Court judges forget what they said in their textbooks? I know some of the judges of our Constitutional Court, I know they're good experts (I limit myself - some judges), so I doubt there's any ignorance. If it's not ignorance, it's an evil intention. Is the reasons for such decisions of our Constitutional Court the birth of the party to the other, which the Constitutional Court should cover by its decision? That's a question for all of us, but also a question for the President of the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry it's not these to give us the answer to that question right now. In the end, let me look back at the candidates themselves. I won't mention their names, I don't know people, but I can say anything about their résumés, because they are in front of us, in front of all the MPs. As someone who, among other things, teaches and the history of law, I can only add that I've been embroiled by empty biographies of candidates for the highest function in this country. This has not happened in the history of the Serbian judiciary. Why is this country doing this? It is not enough to formally meet the criteria they write in some legal acts. The application of law is a much more complicated and much more responsible thing. The Constitutional Court should be chosen best by the best, not by the people who have never written a verdict. Whether people with such résumés know how to create, write, apply, and interpret acts brought by the Constitutional Court. I don't mean, I'm saying people with biographies like this can't do that. Then, of course, the question arises – where is the logic of such a procedure? Do I express myself to a colloquial dictionary? Don't blame me for that. What Nikolic got, for the sake of peace in the house, has to get a trailer? I'd like to get an answer to this question. With apologies for speaking with tension, but don't mind me, professor of law school for such a scandalous procedure must respond, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42626	Nine minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. The word has a folk MP Sreto Peric, followed by a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42627	Dear fellow MPs, in haste, in pursuit of a system of European values, you have destroyed a complete system of Serbian values. Today in this hall, in this House, which I above all respect for the citizens of Serbia that we represent, as if we were choosing a court judge for violations in Ljubljana or perhaps a judge of the General Court in Loznica, rather than a judge of the Constitutional Court. Indeed, in this topic there is no politics or politicization, I will remind you of the Constitution, but the democratic gentlemen, both you and DOS in any aggregate state, as counterpart Zoran Krasic likes to say, are not the creators of the Constitutional Court. Namely, the Constitutional Court in the Republic of Serbia has existed since 1963, when the Constitution was adopted in April and the constitutional court of Serbia envisaged, and then by the Constitutional Court Act in December of the same year. So, there has been since then, only you are now introducing some innovations into this election system of judges of the Constitutional Court. The fact is that of the ten parts of the Constitution is one exclusively devoted to the Constitutional Court, and that's the sixth part. The fifth part together deals and talks about the National Assembly, and about the President of the Republic, and about the Government, and about the State Administration, and about the Protector of Citizens, and about the Army of Serbia, and about the courts, and about the High Council of the Judiciary. It's all part five, and the sixth part of the Constitution speaks only of the Constitutional Court. The fact is that the Constitutional Court judges are elected for nine years and no other authority or choice is at nine, all of them are elected for a shorter period of time. Well, I guess, if nothing else, it should be serious. Since candidates (two and one will be chosen) are absolutely unknown not only to the general public, but also to the professional legal and judicial public and the MPs, perhaps the President of the Republic, by his role as a proponent, to sit here and explain their biographies and propose these candidates, would make this job at least partially more serious, but this is really scandalous and not like anything. I doubt that one day, when one of these judges resigns, we might allow a choice of Judges of the Constitutional Court to text, and then, you'll agree, you'll probably look like the Farm. Don't let, dear colleagues, make a circus out of a serious state institution, which the Constitution also pays serious attention to. There are a total of 15 judges of the Constitutional Court. Five elects the President of the Republic on a proposal from the National Assembly of ten, and five elects the National Assembly on the proposal of the President of the Republic also from the list of ten. Then we have a situation that out of those ten there are probably all ten choices of the President of the Republic. The third third or five judges of the Constitutional Court elect the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court on a proposal of ten from the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Remember how we ran the election procedure of the general judges. Also to the greatest extent, with the direct involvement of DS and other parties supporting the government now. Well, we have a presidential constitutional court which, you'll agree, is certainly not good. The Constitutional Court should decide many situations. Someone before me said he'd like to know what the candidates think about certain things when it comes to the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. I would like to know what these two proposed candidates think of Hague detainees, and a member of our 13th Constitution says what the Serbian states are doing to our citizens abroad. They're also abroad and I'd like to know what the candidate proposed for the Constitutional Court is thinking about. Then what do the candidates think about the direct application of guaranteed rights? A large number of members of the Constitution define human and minority rights. Let them even apply directly under the Constitution, some rights may be increased under some other laws. What do these candidates think about that? To mention the names Sabahudin Tahirovic and Enver Niksic. I really don't want to read biographies. That's what many colleagues have done before me. There's almost nothing to read. I don't want to personally insult these people, maybe they're good recreational athletes, maybe they're solid lawyers, but I'm sure through their careers they've won no trust, at least the SRS MPs, so that they can trust them on vote day. The highlight of a lawyer could be quite a safe choice for a Constitutional Court judge in 168, but this could be translated into any particular case, which a Constitutional Court judge should fulfill. You see, even Nata Mesarovic, when she was asked if she had obstructions by the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court for selecting those five judges they have the right to choose, she says – no, we do not. But according to her, the appointment of the Constitutional Court judges is a very responsible job and criteria must be laid down for proposing candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, as she said it must be proven professionals in the field of legal science. Surely, they could have been called quite different, these people, these candidates, they don't meet these conditions because they're not known to anyone. But there's one more thing that's interesting and that reflects how much this whole activity is bare and how much it's accessed unseriously. The agreement on acceptance of the candidacy (not to waste time, not to read it) is absolutely the same in both candidates, only signatures and names are different. What does that indicate? That someone else might have done it beyond their will. But it doesn't matter, I just caricate a little. They have accepted and, about, we will get another judge of the Constitutional Court - not an expert, but an obedient one. This can't be a party court, this is the Constitutional Court of the Serbian State, and it has the best lawyers sitting in it, above all, because a passed judicial exam is not a condition for a judge of the Constitutional Court, but professional qualities are a prerequisite. And if we were to choose such judges of the Constitutional Court, then we wouldn't have the Constitutional Court's decision to use them one time. And the best example of the Constitutional Court's decision for single use is the decision of 21 May of this year, related to certain provisions of the Law on Local Elections. If we were to respect this literally now, and I don't know if we could work this out with any of the judges of the Constitutional Court, I would agree that there may be someone sitting there who is professional and could do a good job, but above all I think that obedience is a stronger virtue than expertise, and on that basis has come to that function, then we could now say that all the committees in the local self-governments were elected in the 11 May 2008 elections, i.e. that their choice was annulled by this Constitutional Court decision, because I'm not aware that any list that appeared in those elections respected what is now forbidden, or put out of force, by Article 47. Law on local elections. Not to mention the practical problems where several political parties or other organisations went to elections, so they had a coalition agreement. How do we regulate that now? It is impossible to change something that at some point reflected the will of Serbian citizens. I remind you once again, with a constitutional court decision like this, it seems to me like someone's going to go to the university of political science, take exams under the university's program, and, when they graduate, they get a degree in foreign language colleges. Is that possible? Would it have occurred to anyone normal to do that? No, but the Constitutional Court has thought of making such a decision, Mrs. Kolundjia, you know that's the case. And only the President of the Constitutional Court is a person who, based on what he does after the election as President of the Constitutional Court, is certainly not worthy of that role. That's why the SRS filed an initiative for her shift, because she doesn't deserve, not to represent the Constitutional Court, she doesn't deserve to have any judicial function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42628	Ten minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, followed by MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42629	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in these four minutes, as long as my parliamentary group remains, I would particularly like to declare the Constitutional Court as the basis of democracy and the proposed candidates for judges of the same court. I would ask one question - what are these people who accept to be elected this way for the Constitutional Court, what is the basis of democracy? Why am I asking this? Because it is necessary for the judge to have professional training, to have work experience, to have expertise and to have practical experience in the profession. In these two cases, we have one judge of the Supreme Court, not even the judge of the Court of Appeal, but the Supreme Court, which is a little bit more than the judge of the Court of Justice, and we have a gentleman who is the Assistant Director General of the PIO Fund. In the text explanation of the proposal for these judges, we have absolutely no indication of what the promoter has defined for these two people. If it is the Constitutional Court, on the basis of democracy, then the question is whether they are truly qualified to work in that same Constitutional Court and to make very serious decisions on this society as a whole. I would remind you that the same Constitutional Court has decided to assess the constitutionality of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of oil and gas economy. I would remind you that the same Constitutional Court should decide on the assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expropriation Act, where we have so easily given the possibility that a foreign state enterprise should benefit from expropriation in our country, which is otherwise prohibited and not allowed under our positive regulations. I would remind you that we have a very controversial law on the agenda, it is a bill to encourage the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under conditions of economic crisis, so the LDP will submit an assessment of the constitutionality of this law when adopted. And we have no doubt that it will be adopted, given the majority that is in this House. So these are all serious acts, serious regulations, on which the Constitutional Court decides, decides, and has serious consequences for our country. Therefore, we really don't care which judges will sit in that Constitutional Court, we don't care who decides on such cruel laws, international agreements and contracts. For this reason, it is unacceptable that we do not know anything about candidates, that we are discussing today without even knowing what we are discussing, that we must go back to that topic again – whether the institutions are working with us, whether there are any pro-forms with us or whether these institutions really have an obligation to work at full capacity. With this proposal from the future judges of the Constitutional Court, we believe that we remain at a declarative level with regard to the functioning of our institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42630	Three minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has been given by MP Boris Aleksic, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and he is the last registered speaker. (Boris Aleksic: How much time do we have? Twenty - four minutes and fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42631	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the first impression about these proposals by President Boris Tadic is a surprise that representatives of the ruling coalition do not defend his proposal at all. So, no one to come out to support these ideas of President Boris Tadic regarding the candidate judges of the Constitutional Court. Another incredible impression is that I don't know why previous speakers so much about the biographies of these candidates, which makes them comment that the data in the biographies is scarce, when both President Boris Tadic and the candidates introduced a new manner – they left the number of the judges' cell phone, so they probably think MPs should call them, ask them a little questions about their biographies and explain everything that is not clear. Perhaps some future candidates will leave only their phone number, without any data related to the biography, because it is unnecessary, we all know in advance that the voting machine will vote. To be serious, because this topic deserves it, the Constitutional Court is the institution of a newer date right than some other courts, but its importance, just as the protector of the Constitution, is enormous. Let me remind you, the beautiful Serbian word "constitution" best describes this act, because it stops, restricts power. As early as the 14th century, in Dusan's code, Emperor Stefan Uros IV limited his imperial authority. They have also done so and some other European rulers and the importance of the Constitution is immeasurable. That's why the Constitution is the last institution to guarantee human rights to all citizens, the human rights to which you call when it comes to voting, when it is necessary to justify perhaps some unpopular moves and decisions, but your relationship with the Constitutional Court is best seen today. You're not interested in the Constitutional Court. There may be 15 of you in the O.R., many more members of the opposition. Today you're not talking about this subject, it's not important to you, and your views on the Constitutional Court and on human rights are very clear. When it comes to candidates, it is really very strange that we have information for Mr. Niksic, who described his career in detail. So, that he worked as the only lawyer in a company of 750 employees in Novi Pazar; that he also worked at local self-government again, as he says - since he was the only lawyer in legal affairs; that he became head of the General Administration Department; that he was head of the Department of Assembly and Joint Affairs, where offices and archives operate. We're getting serious problems here right now. I suggest you open the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, look at other acts and see what is the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, how serious the Constitutional Court is in business. Mr. Tahirovic offered a shorter biography, has one seven rows, where he said he was the director of the Youth Co-operation and was elected Judge of the Municipal Court in Novi Varoša in 2003, that he was then elected Judge of the Great Court in Novi Sad and then moved on to the Constitutional Court. The biographies don't match what the Constitutional Court does. It would be very important to see what these candidates think about the current practice of the Constitutional Court, what they think about judicial reform, what their views on the most important issues are in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. You can see that by practice, Bose Nenadić is abolished, in some ways, by civil society. As you know, our Constitution guarantees the equality of all citizens, so it guarantees some civil culture. You can see that special suits have been introduced for the Constitutional Court judges and a special gold chain for the Constitutional Court judge. So, so far, the judges have been dressed as they are, like all citizens, precisely symbolizing the equality of all citizens. Now that's changed. As you know, when Bossa Nenadic enters court, everyone has to stand up and greet her. So again, we have some really inappropriate behavior. The question arises – what do these candidates think about the Constitutional Court's decision, related to the parliamentary mandates and the anti-zaconic, anti-constitutional abolition of the electoral system in the Republic of Serbia. Some authorities then said after the decision, it was the only function of the political party to run for office. In the political theory, the political party has three functions. The first is to show, expose the people's will, formulate it. The second function of the political party is to discipline elected representatives. You can't become, for example, an MP or a board member based on one system of ideas, based on one program, based on one ideology, and then change it, as some have done. They changed their ideology completely. What was worse, now it's down. Which was Knin, now it's Washington. What was KIM, now it's London. Something like that is impossible. And the third function of the political party is to inform the public. The Constitutional Court has hereby abolished the functions of political parties. He would have the excuse to do such a thing if the electoral system in Serbia were in line with the electoral system that exists in Great Britain, the United States, where candidates under the name and last name run rather than on the political party list. Who knew about those candidates? People knew, mostly, about the political party and perhaps about some of the most important and significant officials. So they voted for the party. It is very interesting what candidates have to do with judicial reform in Serbia by an American organisation formed by the American Bar of ABA/CEELI. To be precise, it was this organisation that participated in the creation of the tribunal in The Hague. As the tribunal in The Hague works, we know best, as well as professors from Harvard, such as Professor Dershovic, professors from New York, such as William Shabas, former judge of that court, Wolfgang Shomburg, lawyers from the Russian Federation, such as Mr Mezjaev, lawyers from Standford, such as Alison Daner, claim that he acts against international law and that he violates the most fundamental human rights, primarily through the fabricated criminal act - a joint criminal enterprise, whose third category introduces collective criminal responsibility. So such organisations have done judicial reform in Serbia. The question is, what do these candidates think about the genocide crime? I hope they don't think what the government of the Republic of Serbia is thinking, because the RS government says that the adoption of a resolution on genocide against Armenian people is not in the foreign political interest of the Republic of Serbia, would adversely affect bilateral, political and economic relations with the Republic of Turkey, which is an important factor in the region and our common foreign policy partner, and then explain how relations between Serbia and Turkey have flourished. So, when it comes to money, when it comes to profits, you, the government of the Republic of Serbia, are not interested in the crime of genocide, but you are very interested in it when it comes to hitting on the back of Serbs and Serbian citizens. And this explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia on the motion for a resolution submitted by the SRS on genocide, which has been proved in history, is a real shame on the Armenian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42632	Eleven minutes have been used by the MP's group. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. He's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what should be said at the beginning is that this debate on the election of one judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia takes place against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because there is no state body present in the National Assembly that has proposed to the National Assembly these two candidates, which is the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic. And if the National Assembly respected the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this debate could not be conducted without the presence of the one who proposed these two candidates, which is the President of the Republic. The president of the Republic had to come to the National Assembly, look the MPs in the eye and say -- these are the reasons why I propose these two citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be the most important institution in the Republic of Serbia, which should defend constitutionality, legality and democracy. Instead, he sent a funny short letter in which there is one single sentence on why he proposes these two citizens of the Republic of Serbia to judges of the Constitutional Court, which reads: "I consider the proposed candidates to possess professional and personal qualities based on which I can perform the function on which I have proposed them." Try, Mr. Odalovic, to hire a maid at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think your reasons will be more comprehensive and detailed than the President of the Republic why someone should be the judge of the Constitutional Court. What can we see from these biographies? Mrs. Comic drew our attention to the fact that it would be good to say something about the agenda, about candidates. Excuse me, what should I say about the man who wrote his professional and working biography in three or four sentences? Is that the man who's supposed to be judge of the Constitutional Court? Is it someone who should be the last base of defense of constitutionality and legality in this country, in which there has been no sign of constitutionality or legality for 10 years? He had to come today by the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic to ask him, among other things, what kind of state it is possible to write that Vojislav Seselj of The Hague tribunal ordered the murder of Tomislav Nikolic. Anyone who's been to The Hague knows that either Vojislav Seselj or any other Hague defendant can't go to the bathroom without registering cameras there. How is it possible for a daily newspaper to publish such a thing and appeal to a source from the MUP and BIA and we, Serbian radicals, to ask the question today – who has come to this data, who is the mother's son who warned the MUP and BIA that Vojislav Seselj ordered to kill Tomislav Nikolic and that, imagine, look at miracles, through a member of the Zemun clan - Milos Simovic? So, if Boris Tadic were here, we'd be asking him that, too. Since it is not, we ask you, you two from the SPS-JS parliamentary group, PUPS, I have no one to ask from G17 plus, there are one 15 MEPs – what is it that these people recommend to be judge of the Constitutional Court? What can we conclude from these four sheets of paper about who these people are? I can only draw one conclusion, but please don't get me wrong. I can understand that these people are graduate lawyers and I can understand that Muslim religions or, by this political new word, that they are Bosniaks. Now, if I wanted to be malice, I could ask if it was Mufti's Bosniaks, Rasim's Bosniaks or Sulja's Bosniaks? By what key are these people run to be judges of the Constitutional Court? There's got to be a key. You cannot convince us that of the two candidates, they should both be from one area in the Republic of Serbia called the Raška region and that the two candidates should be Muslim religions. There's a key. What's the key, whether it's a party, whether it's religious, who knows what kind of calculator it is, but there's got to be a key. Then what can the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect from the Constitutional Court who will be elected in this way, where there is no President of the Republic to tell us who these people are, where no one in the ruling coalition has three clean to say – you are wrong, you are SRS, they are good lawyers and deserve to be the judge of the Constitutional Court. What kind of Constitutional Court is that? It is a Constitutional Court that can say that a councilman in the local congregation has more rights than an MP. The MP can stop the mandate on the basis of a blank resignation, the councilman can't. What country in the world is that? Not even in the National Assembly, though. If the SRS resigns blankly, then they can't. We see now that he can't even resign when the DSS resigns, but when the DS resigns, when these, which is none, from G17 plus resigns blankly, the blank resignation is respected in a minute. A session of the Administrative Committee was scheduled to be held yesterday to discuss Mr Dragan Shormaz's blanco's resignation. He says he can't. Why can't he? Well, he says - members of the Administrative Committee are not prepared enough to discuss such an important issue, which may have, imagine, far-reaching consequences for political life in Serbia. How come it only takes us a year to get ready for discussion when the SRS and the DSS take a blank resignation, and when the blank resignation of someone from DS, G17 plus or from the SPS, in a minute, the matter is resolved, there's no debate, let's vote? What can we expect? What will be the political life in Serbia when one who needs to protect democracy and the rights of citizens makes a decision under which members of the Law on Local Elections do not apply, and the decision has been made because the Democratic Party has assessed that it is precisely such a decision by the Constitutional Court that the most damage will be suffered by the Serbian Radical Party? That's how it is, gentlemen, to conduct an analysis of how the Constitutional Court's decision is applied that it is members of 43 and 47. The law on local elections is unconstitutional. They're applied selectively. In municipalities where the Democratic Party, or their political satellites, is responsible for returning mandates that have been seized on the basis of the blank resignations, these mandates are returning. Where they don't fit, those mandates don't come back. The Constitutional Court is silent. We ask him why he's quiet. Is the Constitutional Court's decision applied throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia or not applied? If not applicable, tell us what parts of the Republic of Serbia are applied, and in which parts of the Republic of Serbia are not applied. What can we expect from the Constitutional Court, which looks literally like the Hague Tribunal, in the most literal way possible, from the way the judges dress, from everyone in the court being obliged to stand up when the President of the Court comes in, to make decisions. As in The Hague tribunal's Statute, as in the UN tribunal's Rules of Procedure and Evidence, there is no structure of a 'joint criminal enterprise', but it exists in some judgments, so in the Constitution of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, it does not say anywhere that the committee can't sign a blank resignation, but therefore there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that says such a thing is unconstitutional. Excuse me, what member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that I, as a councilman or as an MP, cannot sign a blank resignation? I guess Serbia is a democratic state. I guess it respects some European civilization, legal and political fluids. I guess in the Republic of Serbia everything the Constitution does not prohibit is allowed. Is there a member of the Constitution that forbids me to write a blank resignation because I want to, say, confirm my loyalty to the SRS and the president of the SRS? Is there a provision? No, but the Constitutional Court found the decision unconstitutional. To make the irony bigger, the Constitutional Court's decision today defends the same ones, including the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government, who in 2007, worked hard to convince MPs that the Law on Local Elections was not only constitutional, but rather European, democratic, excellent law. Now, it hasn't been three years since the Law on Local Elections -- it's no good, it's unconstitutional. Why is he unconstitutional? Because someone from the executive office has assessed it, and this someone's name is Boris Tadic, who was supposed to be in the National Assembly today, and to tell us what it is that these people recommend for the Constitutional Court judge, because the first head of Serbia's executive authority felt that this would cause political damage to the SRS. That's why the Constitutional Court's decision was made. This took nearly a month before the Constitutional Court's decision was announced in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". You hid her like a snake's feet. It was brought in, it wasn't brought in. On the Internet, we could at the Web presentation of the Constitutional Court read a brief statement by the Constitutional Court that a decision had been made. Then a month was waiting for the decision to be made. And, when it's published, it's selectively applied. Now it depends on the head of the local DS leaders and the ruling coalition whether the Constitutional Court's decision will be applied or not. I want you to run an analysis of the last month and you'll see - a clear selective application of the Constitutional Court's decision. And, like, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding. Yes, but only if it suits the ruling coalition. If it doesn't suit them, nothing is binding. If it doesn't suit us, we don't care what the Guardian says. Who is he? If it doesn't suit us, what do we care what the Anti-Corruption Agency says? If it doesn't suit us, we don't care what the Constitutional Court says. That's how you mess with state institutions and protect their authority. Fight for them, but only until the moment when it suits you politically. As soon as that Protector of Citizens, as soon as the Commissioner for the Protection of Information from Public Matters, as soon as this Constitutional Court, as soon as any other state institution says something or makes a decision that does not suit you, from that moment on, that institution has no authority and its decisions do not have to be respected. That's the constitutional court we've got. And as we have the Constitutional Court, so is the application procedure for judges of the Constitutional Court. All this reminds me of one situation since before World War II. He was one minister in one government between the two world wars that graduated from primary school. How to write a biography for a minister who has a primary school, so a genius realized to write that he had been dealing with political and economic issues since his earliest childhood. Here, these are the candidates that you or tomorrow should choose for the Constitutional Court judges. What do you want a man to write? He was a reference officer in some youth community, worked at the SIZ from 1979 to 1990. What do you want a man to write? There's nothing to write, but it stops the biography in four sentences. And now we pretend it's the real Constitutional Court that needs to protect the constitutionality and legality of the Republic of Serbia. It's hard for us if such people protect our constitution, if they protect our citizens' rights. As they protect them, we have seen it happen in the Republic of Serbia for months. And what the President of the Republic thinks of his candidates, it has shown that he has not honored to come and at least read this pathetic sentence about what it is that these people are running to be the judge of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42634	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42635	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, should be discussed, should we say, but what about the candidates, what about the man who wrote six sentences, in some time intended for the parliamentary group? What about him when he didn't have anything to say about himself? What about the other candidate, who listed some cooperatives here, agricultural goods, who, already, some factory that long since disappeared, collapsed, burned down, doesn't exist? In the end, what about the candidates who are caught somewhere? How--I don't know now, that's what the president could explain to us, but unfortunately, he's not here as a proposer either. But I don't think Boris Tadic, the president of the state, would suggest this. This must've been someone who pushed him. I don't think any serious president of the state can propose such candidates. I think someone in some political agreement has pushed and the president has no idea about this. I'd ask him to read this and see a noise that's being discussed and talked about here today, a shame that he might just have to keep quiet about. This is where he was supposed to pick up his word and shut up for 20 minutes, and that would be the right thing to do. What about the state where the Constitutional Court is sacred? As far as we respect the Constitutional Court, we propose and choose judges. This is proof of how much we respect the Constitutional Court and how much we respected it when we made all sorts of decisions. We remember Eulex, we remember a series of decisions, the Statute of Vojvodina, where we violated the Constitutional Court and await the decisions of the Constitutional Court in the appeals made. Who's to decide? The one from the farmer's cooperative? Or the one who gave us the cell phone so that, if we're interested, we could turn it around, apologize for a little bit. People, you from the ruling coalition, are you ashamed to listen to this today? Did you ever see this candidate's biography that he wrote, and he didn't do us the courtesy of writing at least something, that he was a sports worker, that he was doing something somewhere, that he was doing something? So this is a disgrace to all of us. Bruca for Serbia, the shame for the judiciary, and in particular this is a devaluation of the case law and of the judge's personality in Serbia at all. This is a total devaluation of the law school, of all lawyers who have graduated law in Serbia. This is something we don't need to discuss, so I won't take up much of your time. I'm not going to discuss this at all. This is a disgrace to all of us. This is a disgrace for Serbia, this is a disgrace for the president of the state and his cabinet, this is a disgrace for the Constitutional Court, this is a disgrace for the minister of justice, this is a disgrace over all the turmoil we've had so far. Therefore, there is no point in wasting words. This has devalued everything so much, that every word is too high and doesn't need to talk at all. This is a disgrace to our constitution. Look at the responsibilities this gentleman from some youthful cooperative should have, what to do and what big problems to solve. Imagine judges who have been doing their job for 30 years with honor and honesty, and he needs to give someone his opinion on their verdict, on their decision to give constitutionality. Please, this is really funny and sad. Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, don't let them humiliate you so much. Maybe a little, but you've really gone too far. These are humiliations that no one could allow, nor can you, no matter what you are for European Serbia. This when Europe hears, for God's sake, it'll take you another three steps away, so there won't be anything since the year 2018. By the way, until he leaves and the last of you this House, I don't think there's anything from us. So thank you for listening to me and be ashamed of what you're going to vote for, or pull this back and don't get confused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42636	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42637	The Honorable Chairman, we have a few issues again. Every time the Assembly needs to make known about some candidates proposed by another authorised promoter, we always face the question of whether the procedures are clear enough and whether they provide the best quality. And then we often attack the result of these procedures, not asking perhaps the right question – whether to think about changes in procedures, which may allow such dilemmas to be gone or at least be less. Every time we chose a candidate in the Assembly, we faced the same qualifications. So if we were to be honest now and take the stenograms, when we chose the state auditor, we chose the Information Commissioner, when we chose the Citizens' Protector, they were the same qualifications -- they were unqualified, their biographies don't confirm that they would do their job well, they're a political compromise, they're a discount against someone's demands, they're a concession, etc. Fortunately, in most of these institutions and in most of these elections, it turned out that those who claimed so were wrong. So, that these people, with the greatest potential and support of both the Assembly and the other state institutions, were building institutions on whose head we were choosing them, that they were very often given praise at times when there was a very sensitive question and a sensitive moment and when they proved that they were, above all, independent in the performance of their duties, on the one hand, and on the other hand, committed to doing the jobs they were elected here for. Attacking the promoter is always the simplest. Therefore, the simplest thing is to attack whoever proposes and thus disqualify the authorised promoter. But then the question really arises whether the President of the Republic, elected directly by the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and indeed represents the legitimate will of the citizens, is someone whose right to run for the judges of the Constitutional Court should be questioned in the way it was done here. I really don't think so. If MPs are elected from their party lists, then I believe that greater legitimacy as far as direct elections are concerned is the President of the Republic, who is indeed directly elected by citizens in the elections. In that sense, I really don't think it is appropriate to criticise the legislator's legitimacy. What we can ask as a question is – is there a candidate in this country who would satisfy everyone? I'm sure it doesn't exist. So there's absolutely no such thing. I don't know anyone who could come to this house and not be divided into those who are the ruling majority and those who are the opposition. The opposition would challenge any candidate, as it has challenged any candidate so far, although you are now objecting to us that we do not respect those we have chosen, and to God, they are more respected by those who have disqualified them on the basis of incompetence, on the basis of incompetence, on the grounds that they do not have knowledge and that they do not have qualifications. I just want to say that by selecting one of the proposed candidates, I believe, except that we will complete the Constitutional Court institution and thus allow it to work fully and meet the constitutional obligation, that we will actually build an institution. It may show weaknesses, but I believe that no institution in any developed democratic country has been built in five or ten or 20 years. If we have a good will to build these institutions and if we have continuity in this, so if the change of government does not mean creating discontinuity in these efforts, then I believe that we will build credible democratic institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-30-0.u42638	I'm finishing the search. The National Assembly will decide in Voting Day on the choice of the Constitutional Court judge. Dear People's MPs, since the Rules of Procedure oblige us to spend at least 24 hours between the end of the debate in principle, in this case on the first item of the agenda, which we closed last night at around 6:15 p.m., for today we end work and continue tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., by discussing details of the first item of the agenda. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the sittings. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session and before moving to a further debate, the Assembly is working on the basis of Article 235(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which allows for the right to request information and explanations from the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235? Yeah. ) National MP Arpad Fremond has a word.
