ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39288	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, I hope that the recording of the hall will soon be on screens so that other MPs can see that there were 87, so more than 1/3 of the MPs, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind Members of the People's Parliaments that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session shall take place on the basis of Article 235(2). Rules of Procedure, which enables the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, to request information and explanations on the basis of Article 235. Whether one of the presidents or one of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39289	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to ask the Prime Minister and Minister Skundric a question. I am very sorry that none of them are present, and I would also like to conclude that it may be good for extraordinary local elections to be organised more often because then dissatisfied citizens ask us to pay attention to something that is wrapped in a veil of secrets and something that the Government, or individual ministers, claims to have a monopoly, primarily a monopoly on information, and then a monopoly on the very appearance. It is the development documents of the Bor Mining-Topionist Base, or the entire combination, where it has been drawn out to provide state guarantees with funding for development projects for mining and metallurgy. Based on the data we have from multiple sources and which, miraculously, are consistent, we can see that the government guarantees the financing of development projects in metallurgy. The figures are exact, determined, and I ask the question – will this be a missed investment again, because financing only one segment of this project, or programme, for which financing only programs in metallurgy, without funding, or guaranteeing financing of development projects in mining? Is it going to be another missed investment because the development program isn't completely rounded up or behind it is hiding something that we can't find out, or can we figure out what the background is? A logical slow of this guarantee funding of these programs really doesn't exist. I'd like to get an explanation of what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39290	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39291	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission, ask for information, that is, a notice from the Minister of Culture and Information, Mr Bradic. What I want to say can also be defined as a request, i.e. a request for the Minister, Mr Bradic, to immediately and urgently convene a meeting where all owners of regional and local television stations who have received frequencies of local or regional importance in the legal frameworks. What's this about? Under the current Radio Diffusion Act, or the payment of TV subscription, citizens are obliged to pay TV subscription so-called. The public service of Europe, which has recently become increasingly yellow. I call on Mr Bradic, Minister of Culture and Information, to declare my proposal, to call immediately for a meeting with all owners of local and regional televisions broadcasting the programme not to the territory of the Serbian state and to make changes and amendments to the law that would make the 20 per cent subscription to these local and regional televisions. I don't see why all the 100% fees that citizens pay, and I'm one of them, probably in the minority, but I insist on it, I'm still a minority, Madam Vice President, and in my family, because I understand the need to pay one national, state or, as they say, public European service. Then I don't see why even local public services, local and regional television, would not have part of that TV subscription cake? In fact, if someone didn't know, I want to remind him that 288 thousand pensioners in the state of Serbia are receiving a pension under 11,000 dinars. When you see what that TV subscription is, then we realize that one half of the pension is paid for a TV subscription. Since local and regional television is also being run by journalists, cameramen and cameramen, these same people have their families, I don't know exactly how many of them are employed on local and regional televisions, but I think it's a few thousand people, who deal, above all, with information of local and regional importance. I don't see why they don't participate in the part of the subscription and these TVs, local and regional television, I can only mention maybe two at this moment from the town of Cačka, from whom I come, mentioning here the TV "Cačak" and the TV "Galaxia", which are trying to inform citizens about information of importance for Cachak as a city and a region. That would be some kind of justice. It would also help local and regional television stations, and would be people's fair. Why would the citizens of Serbia, why would the citizens of Cacak, who spend more than a million euros a year on TV subscription, why would they only single out for a station called Belgrade Television and which, in its programme, can be determined, broadcast 90% of the news that is only about the city of Belgrade? We all love Belgrade. I love Belgrade, too. If nothing else, it's where my Red Star lives and will live, but I regret it, I prefer the town of Cachak and I prefer the citizens of Chačka, which is normal for each and every one of us, since we come from different backgrounds. I repeat and pray to Mr Minister, that no parliamentary party would do so, to organise a meeting with local and regional television owners and to establish a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on payment of TV subscription and to keep 20% of that amount in cities and municipalities where and from where these televisions broadcast their programme. I think it would also be in the spirit of decentralisation and these laws that are on the agenda. Given what's going on in that public service and how it's people's said, muddy, I think it would be fair for 20% of the TV subscription to remain local and regional TV stations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39292	The word is from Ambassador Željko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39293	The respected chairman-in-Office, respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, as we have learned from the media, today in Belgrade is to hold a trilateral meeting of Serbian, Turkish and Spanish foreign ministers, and the occasion is what the media say -- to find a solution for a new way in which Kosovo will be presented at regional and international conferences held at the highest level. The meeting, media quoted as saying, will be key in agreements on finding a new formula for more dynamic regional co-operation, where the basic prerequisite for no country in the region is to be excluded from the dialogue. Of course, it is thought of the presence of a representative of the phantom state of Kosovo. The Department of Foreign Affairs has no comment. When journalists contacted them and asked for statements – Serbia has no comment. Ministers, like Spain, like Turkey, are giving their comments and opinions on how the situation should look in the Western Balkans and the whole region, but Serbia's foreign ministry has no response, nor has it announced what will happen at this meeting today. According to media, a direct occasion to hold this trilateral meeting in Belgrade is the regional conference scheduled for June 2nd in Sarajevo, where new prospects will be opened, according to all Western Balkan countries in European integration. Of course, European officials always put Kosovo in this basket, I say, along with all the countries of our region. The conference will not be able to be held in full composition and to be successful if there is no way for officials to be present both in Belgrade and Pristina. It's a message from Europe. Serbia is explicitly asked to establish good communication with Kosovo, which certainly requires a new formula of participation by representatives of Pristina authorities in the dialogue. So, in order not to have a fiasco, as it was on Brdo near Kranj, this time the ministers of Spain and Turkey, foreign affairs, will make their contribution, to put representatives of Pristina and Belgrade for the same table, at least in Sarajevo, at this conference on June 2nd. Whether Miguel Angel Moratinos, who is also the chairman of the Council of Ministers of the European Union and Ahmet Davutoglu, Turkish Foreign Minister, will succeed in his intention, I hope that both the MPs and the public of the Republic of Serbia will be informed in time. My question is - in what capacity will the Turkish State Foreign Minister attend this meeting today, given that the state of Turkey has recognised KIM, is not an EU member and is not a country from this region? So there is no way or reason for Turkey to participate in these talks in this way. But what our old man would say - don't lie down, we finally learned another thing from the same media. I will remind you of the discussion of the Srebrenica Declaration, when the representatives of the DSS asked you countless times – excuse me, who is the author of this shameful declaration? You kept your mouth shut. You didn't answer that. You couldn't answer, you didn't want to answer, or you didn't know how to answer. Now we've got an answer. Finally, the text of the Declaration was written by Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic and Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. That's what the media says, and no one's denying it. For months they worked on the text and even established, according to the press, friendly bases. Today we also ask – what is the starting base, what is the starting base today of Minister Jeremic for these talks? Will representatives of Serbia and Kosovo, or Belgrade and Pristina, sit at the same table? Whether to write Unmik Kosovo or something in front of Kosovo's representative, we are not interested. Whether the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be respected, where it says Kosovo is an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39294	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if you missed any very interesting news that the indictment against the former interior minister, Mr Dusan Mihajlovic, and Chief of State Security Zoran Petrovic, can be outdated because no caller witness appears for almost seven years, but they don't know his address? What's this about? It is these three actions of the State Security Service in 2001 – "Matchva", "Shumadia" and "Kaktus", which was rejected by the Defence and Security Committee to consider, but what is particularly interesting was mentioned for the first time in public that Milan Veruovic was also followed in one of these actions. Among other things, I was here saying that some information we could get about these actions might help us shed light on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Since this information has been published in the paper, I have no reason to no longer say it publicly, because it is strictly confidential and a state secret, but here you, gentlemen of the Parliament, think about this simple fact. Milan Veruovic was under 24-hour supervision. There are two operatives from the State Security Service, name and last name, I cannot publish their names because they were under official covert, who followed Milan Veruovic for 24 hours. This means that at least 80% covered time for Zoran Djindjic. You know that Milan Veruovic was one of the most trusted people in the security of Zoran Djindjic. Now take and connect some facts. You know, under the circumstances when someone is preparing an assassination, experts are going to tell you, most likely the most important time is for the action planned to be strictly time-coordinated. The very fact that someone is being followed from the nearest environment tells us that someone who plans to do so is 100% sure that they will be able to align. One more thing is interesting, which is why I'm asking this question, Nati Mesarovic, the then president of the council who tried to assassinate Zoran Djindjic -- did she have any knowledge of these facts? Is that considered, and did any of the defenses suggest that this be considered, and that it was rejected? Why am I saying this? It may be the perpetrators, or those who executed the assassination really are the ones who are convicted and who have to answer, but there is another part, the background, who is the assassin of Zoran Djindjic's assassination. It's interesting that there is no will in the ruling majority, above all DS, to get these data, especially since in the text of Tom Phil I'm talking about someone from the government having information about these actions, which brings us seriously into a dilemma about why he's silent about it. So, if you remember that video of a TV house and a camera that was set up and practically recorded the execution, then I remember the bombing of bridges, also the cameras that were put up front and then you see only the bridge flying into the air. To be honest, I can't help but feel that it's all been directed in advance in some way, that the background hasn't been definitely discovered. Then I'm interested – why won't you DS reveal this to the end? Why did you in the Defence and Security Committee stop the MPs from getting this information, because this is just one of the information? There are about 56 there, I think, people who have been followed in these actions. I'm sorry, let me finish. (President: five minutes. I'm done. How come you don't care who's been followed, why they've been followed, who's been getting the information and who's been the user of this information? Thank you very much and I expect Nate Mesarovic to deliver this answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39296	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39297	Madam President, I am asking you a question and I am asking the President of the Assembly – is the parliamentary institute asking questions that allow falseness, qualifications that are incorrect, disqualification, accusations that are unfounded and some amateur, godless investigative actions actually used to accuse others? So, the meaning of these parliamentary issues, in my deep conviction, cannot be that it is to accuse the state that the most legislative body has passed some act written by some foreign diplomat. This cannot be allowed, as cannot be allowed to ignore the fact that KIM is under international protection, and that and those who ask all these questions about whether to establish new ways of communication or not and solve problems, know and need to know. At the same time, the DS is being accused here, as someone who is not interested in establishing a political background. The only one who is uninterested in establishing a political background is the one who has politically profited, the one who has fled to The Hague because he wanted to get away from possible political responsibility for this murder and those who were leading the investigation trying to put out a special court, trying to replace the prosecutor, those who have tried in every way possible not only to cover up the political background, but to prevent the trial of those responsible for these crimes. I ask you most nicely to answer my question – is the institution asking parliamentary questions something that can be misused to bring out such harsh lies, disqualification and accusations? I think whoever asks the parliamentary question has the right to ask a question that is of public interest, but not to accuse and use this instrument as a way to disqualify and accuse political opponents. I understand that you are all in a local election campaign, but there are limits that cannot be crossed, and these limits mean respect for the Rules of Procedure, the statement of facts and the truth, and the ban on disqualification. Indeed, this House has brought a declaration that is common to all those who voted for it, and it is an act signed by all those MPs who voted for it, and it is truly unimaginable to accuse the Assembly and the majority that it has brought an act written by a foreign statesman, because I really think it must be stopped at the moment when such a thing begins to be brought here. At the same time, it is really unacceptable for someone to allow himself to accuse, to ask questions, individuals, but it also accuses a political party whose party president and the first democratically elected Prime Minister, who has returned to this country the dignity of the world, which has given this country back the respect that has been violated to the borders where Serbia was the most hated spot on this planet, which has restored the confidence of citizens, who have returned democratic institutions to this country and that the party, whose president he was and whose candidate as prime minister, is not interested in revealing a political background. But these accusations are just about to make it impossible to detect a political background because this is an attempt to actually cloud the whole situation. So, once again, the question is addressed to the Presidency and I ask that it be answered – is the question instrument allowed to be misused in the way that it is misused here?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39298	Article 235, which allows MPs to seek information and explanations, must not be misused. The difficulty that every chairman has... National MP Željko Tomic, please read Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure concerning the course of the session, 235. During the application of Article 235, there is no right to seek damage to the Rules of Procedure, no right to replication. A little knowledge wouldn't hurt anyone, anything else. Please don't throw away. So, the difficulties with applying the Rules of Procedure when it comes to Article 235 are that it is not clearly worked out what it looks like when a MP asks for an explanation and notice and what can be treated with a completely creative approach based on other members, such as Article 103, Article 104, and the other members who prescribe that we must talk about the agenda and that we must treat each other politely. The fact that I have the knowledge that MPs are available to me when asking for information and explanations is slandering and lying is not enough to apply any member of the Rules of Procedure and that is what the Rules of Procedure obliges me to do because the rules that the Rules of Procedure prescribes are above what I have available as knowledge. I can only appeal that the MPs do not think that the extent of the insult, slander, lies, defamation, the carrying of false data will contribute to the strength and impression of their credibility, that is, the truthfulness of what they say. Does anyone else want to ask a question, that is, ask for a notice or an explanation based on Article 235? One of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic is seeking a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We are still in the course of a session that defines the demand for clarifications and information, and I ask you either to consult with members of your parliamentary group – what happens at the session or not to disrespect the National Assembly, believing that you have more rights than any other MP. So, any of the presidents or authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mladen Grujic, Vladimir Milentijevic and Radojko Obradovic. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). Rules of Procedure, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Verice Kalanovic, Minister of National Investment Plan and Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, called for the meeting to be attended by Nebojsa Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development Dejan Radulovic, Adviser at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Vladislav Cvetkovic, Director of the Privatisation Agency and Branka Radovic, Adviser at the Privatisation Agency. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SPECIFICATIONS OF THE REGIONAL DURING (specificities) Before I ask if anyone wants to talk about a particulars search, by amendment to Article 12, I remind the presidents, i.e. the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups and parliamentary groups about the time available for a search in detail – the PUPS, the authorised representative has all the time, as well as the president of the Manjin parliamentary group, the authorised representative of the Parliament group Nova Srbija – six minutes and 40 seconds, the president of the LDP parliamentary group, or the authorised representative has all the time, the authorised representative of the SPS-JS has 15 minutes, all the time, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Progress Serbia 11 minutes, the mandated representative of the DSS Group has used all his time, authorised representatives of 15 minutes and 15 minutes of the SPS. MP groups have the following time available: PUPS 6 minutes, parliamentary group of minorities 8 minutes and 24 seconds, MP group New Serbia minute and 40 seconds, MP group LDP 10 minutes and 35 seconds, MP group SPS – JS 18 minutes, MP group Advanced Serbia 23 minutes, DSS 18 minutes, MP group G17 plus 26 minutes, SRS 56 minutes and 30 seconds and ZES Group 80 minutes and 50 seconds. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39299	I appeal to Article 77, given that last Monday, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, a group of six members of the Defence and Security Committee requested an appointment of a session of the Defence and Security Committee...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39300	National MP, a member of 77 cannot be harmed during this session. Thank you. National MP Zeljko Tomic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39301	I want to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 104, where I think my own dignity and dignity of every MP, for which there are insinuations to slander, lie or something like that, or to insult or as already said over a few minutes in the exposition of the predecessors. It was really no one's intention to insult me, to lie, to have insinuations or anything like that. I'm just quoting an article in the press, and it's the most rabid daily newspaper in Serbia. I didn't do anything else but ask that on the basis of that writing question. I'm going to quote something else that says it again. Mrs Kolundzija, how "Blic" finds out – Ankara has made sure that the Srebrenica Declaration is welcomed and accepted in BiH and that a great positive point is recorded in the EU and the United States for Serbia. The declaration was written and agreed between Jeremic and Davutoglu during the first months of this year, etc. In two months, they met eleven times on the Srebrenica Declaration. That's what it says in the most excruciating daily list. I didn't characterize. I was just asking -- is this true and does the people's MPs and the public of Serbia have the right to know more about this? No more than that. If you think this is not true – why did your MP group, your party, the RS government, the Foreign Ministry simply not deny writing these newspapers? That's all I called myself to. I didn't make any qualifications, I didn't insult anyone, I didn't lie, and don't give it to me. That's what I'm asking you. You have offended this House's dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39302	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. Now there are injuries to a member who forbids to throw away, but Article 104 in an explanation you have given is not. As you will see in the stenogram, I have provided an explanation that the business provisions prevent me from presenting the facts that are available to me, which is that I have the facts available to me when someone slanders, lies, is false, and this was not about you or anyone else, but about the position of the chairman who answered the question, and I have answered that the Rules of Procedure prevents me, and the Rules of Procedure should prevent you from doing anything but respecting the rules of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39303	I'm reporting from article 101. That Serbia is co-operating with Turkey is no secret, nor should it cause any odyssey towards the country among Serbian citizens. That Serbia has sought support for all its policies and is seeking support not only from EU countries, but also from countries in the region and Turkey, it is also not a secret, I think it is legitimate and it is good that Serbia is doing it. That it is extremely important for Serbia whether the Srebrenica Declaration will be accepted in Europe and the region is also not a secret and it is simply not a secret that should cause animosity among Serbian citizens. It is true that Serbia has conducted consultations with many countries, that it has held talks with Turkey and on every occasion if a country could support Serbia in its efforts, not only when it comes to the Srebrenica Declaration and the acceptance of that declaration, but also on other issues, Serbia has always done so. But accusing the Serbian Parliament of adopting the text of a foreign diplomat is something that is inadmissible and harmful from the point of view of Serbia's interest, not only the Serbian Parliament, but from the point of view of the state and the citizens of Serbia. I didn't comment on that at all. It is understood that we are looking for a way to participate in regional meetings, while respecting UN Security Council Resolution and the position of KIM as part of Serbia under the international protectorate. That's understood. I don't see what's wrong with that if we're working with anyone who can help solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39304	National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39305	I refer to Article 27, paragraph 1, point 3 or 4. – chaired by her on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Komic, you're a very intelligent woman and I'm sure you can make the right conclusion if you want. Therefore, I would ask you to allow me to have the same rights as the other MPs when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you, as chairman, to do everything you can to ensure that this Rules of Procedure is respected, especially because six MPs applied for a session of the Committee on Defence and Security, and you remember the case that a man fell into one and another taxi, that he lost his life at the time, that there was a danger that many members of the Intervention Brigade also lost their lives and, what is particularly interesting, when they said to the quiet one, the man Jovan Kostic, who moved to Kaludierica three years ago, when they found an arsenal of weapons in the apartment, from long pipes and so forth. And now a serious question is raised – is this state and how threatened it is, and who, at some point, can come into the same situation, as was the one with Ivan Kostic, especially given the fact that many weapons have disappeared in the past period, especially long pipes? Honestly, I'm scared. Which is why there is no meeting of the Defence and Security Committee to get information from the Home Secretary... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39306	Two minutes. Thank you. There's no damage to article 27. If this is a session of the Committee to be appointed, the Rules of Procedure shall make clear how the session of the Committee is scheduled. If there are difficulties to schedule a session of the Committee and the chairman of the National Assembly and each chairman will assist and fulfil the business obligation to schedule the session. There's no difficulty in this case. National MP Zeljko Tomic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39307	Article 101, incorrectly interpreted exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39308	People's MP, a member of 101 can't be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. People's MP Zeljko Tomic wants to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. The People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic, wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39309	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 12. The draft law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act is proposed to amend Article 24(2) of the existing law by increasing the number of members of the National Council from 19 to 26. I have proposed an amendment to delete Article 12. The bill, because this proposal is also absurd and speaks of another inconsistencies and confusion of the promoter. On the one hand, the number of regions has been reduced, areas are being dissipated, and on the other hand the number of members of the national council is increasing. This speaks of alleged decentralisation and rationalisation, which is also sufficient reason to accept this amendment. In yesterday's debate, time did not allow me to answer you, Madam Minister, as to the claim that it is not true that the government representatives did not consult local self-government, claiming that you were personally coming to Užice, Prepolje, Priboj and Nova Varosh. I betrayed the full truth, in which I handled the statement of the former head of the Zlatibor district, which stressed among other things that no one from the Ministry had consulted him or him or the representatives of the local authorities. I have no doubt that you visited the Zlatibor County, but after his resignation. As a born Užičanka, I appeal to all the People's MPs of the Zlatibor County, especially to the pleasure MPs, because it is an existential issue of our fellow citizens, to put the interests of Užic and Zlatibor County ahead and above their political careers and to vote on their conscience, against the amendments and addition of the Regional Development Act. New Serbia is explicitly against this law on amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act and all MPs of New Serbia will vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39310	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zeljko Tomic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39311	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which concerns respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, and regarding Article 101, where I am completely misread in the controversy with the head of the ZES parliamentary group, Mrs Nada Kolundzhija.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39312	National MP, right to replication, wrong interpretation, is not the basis for breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Zeljko Tomic, from place: Article 104, dignity is injured. ) People's MP, please, either make a statement for your breach of the Rules of Procedure so that I don't have to interrupt you and that I don't have to warn you or decide in some other business-defined way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39313	Article 104(1), I think it's very clear. It is mentioned something that I have not disputed for a moment, which I repeat from an influential diary, the most read daily, I quote this time: "The Srebrenica Declaration was written and agreed between Jeremic and Davutoglu during the first months of this year, and as the Turkish Foreign Minister himself once publicly admitted, two heads of diplomacy met 11 times in just two months of this occasion." That's all I'm saying, I'm not slandering anything, I'm not lying, I'm not planting anything. The Serbian public was informed by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, that she wrote the text and agreed with the College, which was drawn up by the team. Someone's not telling the truth. You didn't deny writing "Blash," you said, "Shut up. We're just looking for answers to these questions and nothing more. Be clear, direct and concrete once. Do you mind? Do you have courage or just don't know? That's what I'm asking of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39314	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. You are committing a violation that is forbidden by the provisions of article 100 and insist that you have the right to violate the Rules of Procedure, or that you give twice as many reprimands to the same member and to talk about the same thing. If this is not a disdain for the National Assembly, if it is not a demeaning of all other MPs so clearly illustratively in the way you insisted on breaking the Rules of Procedure, then I do not know what else would be. I can ask you not to. National MP Milica Radovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39315	Since there was no reaction to what the esteemed colleague Tomic said, I will return to the amendment that Mrs Djeric and Mrs Ilic submitted together. We support such an amendment and as a parliamentary group you know well that we have not submitted any amendments to this text of the law, believing that amendments cannot be corrected. We submitted 44 amendments to the first text of the law, but we saw what their fate was like and how it ended in the first place. Instead of giving too much explanation to the government's representatives for what was written in these amendments, they did not find them appropriate even to look at them. With what surface and absence of elementary knowledge in Serbia, not to say by ignorance, access to the law, which we have today, best shows the fact that it has not been nine months, and it has already changed. Serbia will be divided into five regions instead of seven regions, the statistical regions. I didn't say at first that I would use the time of the parliamentary group, and that's supposed to be. Did we, in principle, hear a valid argument that would convince us that what the government is doing now is justified? What is the problem that the Sjenica would belong to the West, and Novi Pazar and Tutin to the central region, unless the region's drawing and drawing of borders are solely motivated by ethnic criteria? Are we here today discussing the Regional Development Act or regionalisation itself? I don't think it's clear to the government's representatives either. Instead of the arguments that should be the result of a serious analysis, we find the reason for making such changes in Mr Dinkic's words, which tells us "that statistical regions are not equal size, given the number of inhabitants". It then lists which area, i.e. the region has residents "and that in central Serbia these regions are unequal". Is it possible that the government, when making up such a text of the law, did not manage those first and basic criteria, which it had to do when making this law? Does this mean that nine months ago the government failed to even calculate the number of residents that should be represented in one region, whose limits are itself rules, so now it is finally possible? Is that the message that the government is telling us this way and this time? If an error was made during this first basic criterion, then what about the content itself, with the law itself? Is he the basis for balanced regional development? What are these fiscal instruments that will enable the financing of new powers of local self-government authorities? How can we even talk about balanced regional development without knowing that the authorities of local self-government have been reduced by 50% and that their assets have not yet been returned to them? What about the law on public property? If it is known that Serbia is a country with great differences in the development of certain areas, which sometimes extend, are related and moving in comparison with 1:15, then it is quite clear – that this bill will not be able to solve such a problem, among other things, because Vojvodina has received powers in its anti-constitutional Statute beyond and beyond its constitutional status and, conditionally speaking, it is stronger than the region itself, as it is in the end the same story for Belgrade. The principle of formal equality is fully openly represented here, and the fundamental inequalities, which exist – from even regional development and from poverty reduction, there is nothing. If it were truly going into decentralisation itself, i.e. only to improve the situation in local self-government, then instead of this bill, we would be discussing today someone in which decentralisation itself is represented, but in this truly economic and fiscal sense. Instead of falling under pressure from Bosniak parties, whose motive, the motive for "balanced regional development" was certainly not too good, when they also rebelled in this way, asked for changes to this law. From what we said today, as we said yesterday, what we said nine months ago -- it is quite clear that no one in this House has the right to ask my parliamentary group for support for this concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39316	The Government has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Judita Popovic, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39317	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, carefully listening to this debate on this legislative proposal and during the debate in principle and now in particular, I could conclude one thing, which is – that all the debaters are in some sense right. So one law, and how many interpretations and all these interpretations can be effectively subdued. So all interpretations can be accepted as real. It is also right that those who say the Constitution of Serbia did not predict the regions, that the Constitution of Serbia did not provide for regions as a financially independent administrative continent and that this legislative proposal does not really foresee regions as independent financial and administrative continents. It is also right that those who say that some elements can be found in this legislative proposal, trapping some future regionalisation of Serbia, and those who say they are right -- that this is something very slow, that we do not see a clear policy, a clear strategy on Serbia's serious decentralisation. So, one law, and so much interpretation. In light of the legislative proposal, it is said that the main objective of adopting this law is in fact to achieve a balanced regional development. In order for us to achieve that goal earlier, it would be good to define regions. Previously, it should define what it means – even development and what it really means to develop itself. The case of this law is just talking about that we do not yet have a clear definition – what is meant by regions in Serbia, or what this law means by the region. This law is, above all, bound to the NUTS nomenclature, which is the nomenclature of territorial statistical units, the new EU statistical model since 1988. So, if we start from that definition, this NUTS 2, indeed at that level, predicts the classification of regions lagging behind in development and is financed from the EU Structural Fund. It is that the five regions of Serbia have decided to build statistical regions, which, according to the law, provide for access to certain structural funds. But what does access to these funds mean? This means that these regions get certain capacities, certain opportunities to develop their potential in terms of project planning and how these projects are financed, which is fine. On the other hand, Belgrade is the one, the government is deciding whether a specific project of a particular region will be accepted or not and whether the region will receive the funds it seeks and which are available from the EU. So it is the government that has the last word on it – how these regions will finance each other and whether they will finance themselves in terms of a particular project at all. So, yes, we have statistics, we have the opportunity to assess whether a region is developed, to what extent the region is developed, what needs it, what resources it needs, but it remains at the level of government. When we talk about this even regional development, which is the main painful point of Serbia, and in fact it stems from the situation that Serbia is a highly centralised state and that it is difficult to deny that position and the type of territorial organisation from various irrational fears, we have had the opportunity to bear witness and strong debates in this assembly whether the Vojvodina needs to be given the statute or not, whether Vojvodina is required to transfer certain powers or not. Jar, decentralisation is a prerequisite for regionalisation, but regionalisation is a prerequisite for even regional development. Without that, therefore, there is no even regional development without that first component of decentralisation. So that's the main problem and this law, that's the problem, because we really don't see from the bill that there's firm will, political will, intent and programme to do it all the way. Serbia currently has about 170 municipalities, there are 29 administrative districts, now there will be five regions. However, whether one rational organisation of all these regional factors, as well as the state itself, is envisaged, will allow for that main goal, which is even regional development. Unfortunately, experiences from the past tens of years have given no reason for optimism. In most cases, everything remains at some declarative level when it comes to changes, and it is mostly just that it remains in the status quo, so it happens that despite the laws and legal opportunities to have opportunities to develop certain regions that are less developed, it still does not take advantage of that chance, but it goes through some unbalanced methodology, some methodology of privilege, some methodology of the influence of certain politicians coming from specific regions, from concrete cities, populated cities and the like. We have experience, for example, for an earlier period of incredible reason for the town of Svilinca. We have experience from the really big and serious development of the town of Cačka, we have the development of Kragujevac now, we have the development of Jagodina. You see, Kragujevac was once at a level of development, let's say, if we were to look at it towards the place of economic power, in 83rd place, and now Kragujevac is in second place. Unlike Zrenjanin, for example, who was once in the former SFRY in second place, and Zrenjanin is currently, in economic strength, industrial power, in 23rd place. This data I have now provided regarding Kragujevac was presented by the Minister of Economy and Regional Development himself, all thanks to the fact that there has indeed been a great progress and development of Kragujevac. But what happens to other parts of Serbia? What happens to parts of Serbia that were in a similar position as Kragujevac, who were at some x place of economic and industrial development? Did they reach that level of development? So, obviously, there is also a great role in policy with us in whether or not the regions will develop, in which direction they will develop, when the region will stop developing, which region will be neglected and so on. From these legal proposals, we do not see that this is systemically and structurally, programmeically and planically decided to prevent all kinds of abuses, any political abuses that can lead to some regions being favored, some jumping up and others turning back even further. Unfortunately, there is also some fear of success in Serbia. That fear is not prevailing either, and we can't see from the bill that there's something going on. What is this fear about regions? It is constantly pointed out that we have regions that are more developed and further developed, and we have regions that are less developed and undeveloped and that we need to help those who are less developed. I agree with that, and that's what needs to be done. However, we must not cut our wings and lose sight of those who are more developed, that they may use their potential more and make progress for that reason and obviously have some results. We must not stop the development of those who are more developed than those who are less developed. We should work on making those who are underdeveloped, that they are trying to help them, to speed them up in their development, to use their potential, their capacity, to reach those who are more developed. Maybe it takes a longer period of time, maybe more work to do, plan, maybe be more objective and maybe more objective in creating a policy of regional development. However, this is not a goal that cannot be achieved, but in no case can it be accepted that those regions that, by our standards, are developed or more developed, stop themselves from using their potentials. I come from Zrenjanin and I have to tell you that Zrenjanin is full of potential. In Zrenjanin, there are great opportunities and great opportunities to use the processing industry, to use the agricultural industry, to use everything that Zrenjanin as a city and its surroundings on earth create, produce and further process it in industry. However, Zrenjanin has almost fully stopped with food production. Grain has almost stopped as far as these branches of industry are concerned. Granjanin no longer has its developed textile industry. Granjanin is a dying city, neglected. Zrenjanin and his region, the Mediterranean region, are in a very bad position, although they continue to be seen as a more developed part, a more developed region in Serbia. When we talk about having five regions, this is what we are talking about today's legislative proposal, we have heard a lot of discussions about how regions have been made irrationally, that regions are too bulky, that regions do not take into account the diversity of certain parts of these regions and that this will cause major problems with statistical data. It is a problem, because if we have a generalization, in fact, and statistics is a kind of generalization, we won't be able to get the right picture of the degree of development of a particular region, of the degree of its potential, of the way that this potential can be exploited, because the differences are great. However, if it is indeed a serious intention of the legislator to make every effort to regionalise Serbia, in this case NUTS 3 will provide opportunities and opportunities to remove some irregularities and some contradictions of this NUTS 2. If these NUTS 2 regions don't just stay at that level and develop with regard to NUTS 3, where the region itself, one of those five regions, does not develop individually within it, in which case we will not achieve anything with these five regions. Serbia's decentralisation needs to be seriously approached. This might be the first step. We of the LDP say it is absolutely insufficient and that we disagree with this crawling way of reforming Serbia, because it is not enough, because there is no time. We do not have time to wait 10 years and more to complete the decentralisation and regionalisation of Serbia, what else Serbia has committed when it has ratified the SAA. Otherwise, we are obliged to take certain steps towards regionalisation within two years of the ratification of the agreement. I'm just afraid that this law on regional development, in fact, is only one kind of alibi of this country, that it has taken over some of the commitments under that SAA, however, that it really does not mean that it should be implemented seriously. Why do I think that way? Because we still do not have a firm guarantee in which the government thinks that all these powers, which it also has in relation to the regions, relative to the administrative districts, are passed on to local self-government, or gradually develops their administrative capacities to become responsible for their development. It is not enough that we have ratified the SAA, it is not enough that we are taking certain steps towards respecting this SAA, but it is necessary to really rationally and work on that path, because this rational work will, in fact, bring results, not just a declarative push for regionalisation and demonstration towards the EU, to stick to the agreement and to work on it. So when I said that this law was actually the ultimate result of a legal logic, that you're actually giving an alibi, you're giving the possibility that every political party, every political option can find something in it that gives it the right to criticise it. I thought, first of all, that the law so divergent, so wide, so vague and inconclusive could not produce serious results. It would be good if we were wrong, it would be good if it really were, not the first half, but the first step towards decentralisation of Serbia, which is actually a key issue for Serbia's further development. Without decentralisation, I don't think there is any serious interruption of this poor continuity with regard to the lagging of certain parts of Serbia. In the end, it also gives the result that Serbia is slowly being embellished, that everyone is humming towards Belgrade, that Serbia remains without its population because everyone wants to live in Belgrade itself, and that is certainly not good for industry or economic development, because not everything can be done and produced in Belgrade. I underline that around two million people live in Belgrade and that a third of Serbia's population lives in the country. When you compare that with the number of people in Serbia, you really get one weird piece of information, and that information is alarming. It would be good for the government to take a serious strategy to avoid the situation so that there will be no one left to produce in Serbia, all will flock to Belgrade to find their chance in Belgrade. Belgrade, you'll allow it, but it's not an industrial centre. Belgrade is all that's left, but it's not an industrial centre. Therefore, there is a need for serious political consensus in this country, regardless of whether it is a position or an opposition, to address the serious problem of Serbia's decentralisation. Only decentralisation is Serbia's future, and I think examples from other countries in the region confirm that. Croatia has done its decentralisation with its three regions. Slovenia has two macro-regions. Macedonia has defined itself as statistical regions and eight. Croatia, along with the three regions, has 21 administrative districts. Therefore, it is all an indication that Serbia is lagging behind and that Serbia must speed up its integration process with its environment, with its environment, as well as with the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39318	Madam Minister, please. Verica Kalanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are taking part in the debate on the Law on Regional Development and on amendments to the Regional Development Act. So, in two rounds in this assembly, in that part of the discussion of the Law in general and in the consideration of amendments. What do I want to say at this point? In May 2007, a very demanding and difficult job of defining the law on regional development in Serbia, which I underline, is the only country in Europe that has not passed a law on regional development. In 2007, addressing the problems of Europe's biggest regional differences, at a press conference, representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development fully presented what giving up legislation would mean, all the differences and what aspects there are in Serbia and what an analysis of the situation is, what are the basics of which it is necessary to start to reduce regional differences. I say once again, you will hardly find any country where there is even regional development. It is a more balanced, much more even regional development than in Serbia, which is also their historical heritage. Ours is what it is, that at this point we are the country with the biggest differences and the most diverse regions and municipalities in Serbia at the stage of economic development. The discussions I heard today remind me of our early work, of what were questions. Questions related to decentralisation, issues related to differentiated taxes, issues related to different criteria for the definition of infrastructure projects, criteria relating to the definition of new industrial zones, criteria related to the new concept of industrial development, criteria relating to the different ways of attracting foreign direct investment. Criteria related to many legislative solutions and to the change of almost the entire system in regional development. That's our goal. Our goal is to include in many laws measures and incentives to mitigate regional differences in Europe, but it takes, first, a lot of time, a lot of money, but today a lot of understanding. If we're talking today about the introduction of large statistical regions, again I have to say, statistical regions, as they are, are one spot on the map of Europe. There are an average of larger territories and a larger population, of which 800,000 must be minimum in a statistical region called NUTS 2. It is our commitment to the SAA, but it is our need, to see what the statistical regions today look like with their degree of development in Serbia and how to continue planning to take care of more even regional development. What are the specificities of this law? What is truly the government's serious intention to fight this problem and to alleviate regional differences in Europe? I want to tell you that as someone who has been dealing with this problem for a long time, I have met many people who are dealing with the issue of regional development in Europe. What, say, did they notice in relation to their laws? A significant advantage is that already in the way of measuring the degree of development we went down the stairs and that we have the categorization of municipalities and cities by the level of development, not just of the region, not only of what the previous speaker expressed his opinion on. So we won't have just statistical stains, five statistical stains on Serbia's territory, within Europe and comparisons with the level of regional development in Europe. If we look at how regions in Europe are measured today, Mrs Popovic, you will admit that we measure them from 0 and 1, to developed and undeveloped, to those below 75 and above 75. So today and in Europe, we have a duplicitous map, developed and undeveloped. Are they all developed the same way? No, they're not. Are all undeveloped the same undeveloped? No, they're not. But it is a simple way of determining the degree of regional development in the EU. How do we measure? We have four colors. If you look at how we measured our municipalities and cities, we measured them so that we have the fourth group as extremely underdeveloped, and even in the fourth group devastated and undeveloped, and we have those above the republican average. Furthermore, if you were talking about the true intention of planning, competition, there is also a greater number of regional development agencies, institutions that truly deal with the economic development of the region, not statistical, but economic continents dealing with the development of lower territorial units than the statistical region. When it comes to Zrenjanin, and when it comes to Kragujevac, I would like first to talk to the facts and to measure the degree of development in the way that this is determined by the methodology that has not been set by Minister Dinkic, the legislator of this law in front of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, or anyone sitting in this group, but it was done by statisticians in accordance with Eurostat's most modern methods. So, as far as Zrenjanin is concerned, I suggest you look at both national and rural measures and incentives that went to Zrenjanin over the past five years. From the national level, the formation and large investment in the industrial zone, a major investment in the incentive of foreign direct investment that their companies have set up in the zone, also, the formation of a two-story business incubator and an incentive for young entrepreneurs who need to open a larger number of companies in Zrenjanin in terms of services. Also, all those funds that went to infrastructure development in Zrenjanin and Banat in general, until today in Banat the key issue, the water supply issue, related to two major cities and in the next tenm euros. Unfortunately, this country doesn't have that kind of money or the possibility of eradicating all problems overnight and waking up in a happier world. But if we want to talk about the facts, then we have to be objective enough and put what little we have in place today in the most just way. I am deeply convinced that this law has a fully formed basis for such a principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39320	Mr. Miroslav Markicevic, MP, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39321	Dear President, I would like to speak within those six minutes and 48 seconds, if I have heard Mrs. Comic well. Since I wasn't on time, perhaps you didn't notice, I got the word, in fact, I want to support the amendment, Miss Alexander Ilic. In this regard, to say that the New Serbia, as a foreigner, is not at all disputed as an idea. A dozen basic principles in our party's programme include regionalisation, decentralisation. After all, I think that all parliamentary parties in their programme have this idea, and that's nothing to be disputed about, and we don't need to be explained, especially to me coming from the city of Cačka, the need to pass such a law. Criticisms on such a proposal, i.e. amendments and additions to the law of the Minister, should be seen as a wish for some clarifications, not as criticism of the law itself. Please, in that sense, Madam Minister, you answer, if you want a dialogue, and I see you want a dialogue on this law. So, we have a problem with why eight months ago we were talking about seven regions, just as convincing as you are now talking, and then you talked about Mr. Dinkic, and now, according to that same law, it's five. Given what is happening, I think you're only increasing your suspicion, at least in New Serbia's MPs, what is the motive of passing this law, or to be specific, to ask you honestly, the most open to the citizens of Serbia -- who is the author of this law? I could also ask the President of the Assembly, since recently some decisions have been made here in the Assembly, so to God, parliamentary groups are meeting, and all parliamentary groups are saying they don't know, so we're talking about the Srebrenica Declaration. Then he's the author, so he's hiding, and then the ruling DS, she's making a proposal for the law, and today we're learning things about who the author of the law is. It is not disputed for me if the Government does not dispute that the author of the law, the amendments and additions of various legal projects are also foreign ministers, only let them write it, the citizens have the right to know. Let them write the motives why they are, Mrs Kolundjia tried to explain it wrapped up for what, but now the whole of Serbia knows: either someone will deny what is most investigative in Serbia today's daily newspaper, or we will accept it as a fact. I don't need that fact to be disputed either, just to see what's the benefit for the citizens of Serbia. So, not using all six minutes and 48 seconds that I have the right to, except I can ask Mrs. Secretary, since she often mentions the stains, what does she mean specifically? Is that term adequate? I've heard of stains in my career, stains in my life, but I haven't heard of stains in statistical regions, either here or anywhere in Europe. So, Madam President, let me ask you - what are your guarantees that this legislative project, or the draft law on amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act, is author of whoever signed them and delivered them to the National Assembly, since we now know who wrote the Srebrenica Declaration?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39322	Ms. Natasa Micic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39323	I'll speak two minutes after the amendment and, if you'll excuse me, I'll use the right of the parliamentary group that's left over. Thank you. First of all, Mrs Kalanovic, you said that we are the last to pass such a law in Europe, although Croatia only passed last year, it is not important, but it has just obliged us to pass the best law, given that we are using the experiences of others. I'd like to make things simple, and I'd like you to answer some questions for me. First, has Eurostat already approved the division of the region to seven, as was the July draft law? Did they have any objections and did they hitchhike it? Not that I know of, the law and the bill passed here in the Assembly and you had both the previous and subsequent consent of the European Agency. Of course the law itself, the essence of that law, refers to the most underdeveloped. Now you simply don't need any specific data, it's visible and naked, in this country is the most underdeveloped central Serbia, then Vojvodina and finally Belgrade. That's what they say, I say, is enough to see with a naked eye, but, let's say, the average level of GDP in Belgrade is at 51% of the EU average, in Vojvodina, 37%, and in poor central Serbia, when I say central, I mean eastern, southern, western and Shumadi, only 21%. That's why this law is being passed. What did you offer us with these changes and additions? I ask the question – is it easier and more effective to realise, realise, access to these European funds, the IPA funds, which at this stage amount to about 200m euros, if this central Serbia applies with two regions or if it applies with four regions, with four types of projects? I think it's logical, and every child would tell you that there's a better chance of getting more than four regions. Next, within one region, would you tell me if one of the Arabs, who is now promised towers and cities and where such a battle is being fought, has a better chance of achieving their needs and interests if it is located in a smaller region that is more related, whose economic, social and geographical ties are stronger, so let's say there is competition between Topol, Batocino, Kraljevec, Kragujevac etc., or would that poor Arangelovac have a better chance if there are two regions, meaning, forest and western Serbia, and besides all of these, there is competition in even more municipalities and cities, so there is Pribo, Prepolje, Baijna Basta, Užice, Čačak, Valjevo, Šabac and not to list? The answer is also very logical, that his chances are greater within the smaller region. Your main argument, i.e. Minister Dinkic, and you have repeated it, is that these changes and additions are done to bring us closer, so that we have a relatively uniform number of citizens. First, that's not necessary at all because NUTS allows from 800,000 to 3 million, and that's a recommendation, and secondly, let's see what that means -- approximately? Let's do this and figure it out, don't make us look like we're little kids and we can't count and we don't know what the word is. If Belgrade has a million and 600 inhabitants, less than that number, but about that much, and Šumadija and Western Serbia have two million and one hundred, too, the difference between the two regions is 500 thousand. If you were to divide these two, Shumadi and Western Serbia, you would get two regions, if you added Novi Pazar and Sjenica to Western Serbia, you would get two regions, one of a million and a hundred, and one of the million people, which is the same difference with the Belgrade region of 500,000. So, however you turn, there's about a 500 grand difference, only this way you lose, by pooling and making one massive, inefficient region that's only going to cause conflicts inside of itself and it's going to be harder to benefit from these IPA funds. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39324	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39325	I will be very happy to talk to everyone who is asking questions about the equality of the region as a proper approach to solving and needs. The thing is that in Serbia, regions do not live and it is very difficult at this point in the head to make the competences of statistical regions. Statistical regions have no jurisdiction. Statistical regions serve as a basis for measuring, but also serve as a basis for measuring the money being distributed, not only from structural funds, but also distributed from the central level. I'd like those who are on different committees dealing with business activities to make comparisons to all those regions you're talking about, so you'll see how you're going to measure both the money and the degree of development of these five comparable regions. Then you'll see why this is the right way of unifying the region. When you asked the question of the European Agency for Reconstruction, yes, the European Agency for Reconstruction was at one point and with its technical support and with consultants supported the adoption of the law on regional development. Yes, the European Agency for Reconstruction has also influenced the formation of regional agencies dealing with the economic development of the region and has proposed that a larger number of agencies appear within statistical regions. You didn't even ask the question of whether to divide Vojvodina into regions? In some of its earlier recommendations for Vojvodina, the European Agency for Reconstruction envisioned three regional agencies, which will deal with, among other things, one Banatom, and supported the establishment of a Regional Development Agency in Zrenjanin. When I say support, it means - logistic, technical support and defining directions in some way communication with the municipality, adoption of strategies etc. However, when I say that we cannot understand in our heads what the functions of the statistical region are, it does not mean that we can add or subtract municipalities or territorial continents as we want to into statistical regions. It is not possible to add Novi Pazar and Sjenica, Novi Pazar already belongs in the districts, but to place Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin in the region by simply switching from one side to the other. The country's existing territorial organisation is a precondition for Eurostat to create statistical regions. It's neither possible nor planned to divide the county. It is neither possible nor planned to end the district in order to please it in the direction of some political or other discussions. I therefore say that I am very much in the mood to consider with all committees in the National Assembly the advantages that the Regional Development Act brings first in the proper and fair division of money on their economic development, but also the necessity of the balance of the region not only for the needs of Serbia, but also for the needs of their representatives in the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39326	It was quite clear, there were no insults. You think you're misread? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39327	Yes, I was misread. First, I did not mention the European Development Agency at all, but Eurostat. Secondly, you are referring to an existing territorial organisation that is not a constitutional category, but Milosevic's fluid turned into a regulation and now you defend yourself. That's unclear. Third, you're saying it's necessary to measure. Should we measure, People's Messengers? Why didn't you measure it? Did you provide us with this information on the closeness and association of municipalities and cities in one region? In the end, I would use just to say, Mrs Kalanovic, staying in Užica, you promised my fellow citizens that Uzice would stay and be the centre of the Zlatibor County, as if it were not already, and on the same day there was a debate on the law and your minister, Mr Dinkic, promised to abolish, that his intention to abolish the regions. I also think that a young colleague from New Serbia doesn't need to call me in favour of this law, since, neither I voted last time, nor will I now, but New Serbia, DSS, DS, G 17, and that's why these people from Užica are sneezed, it's not stubborn, it's not a whim, it's simply a humiliation, during the rule of these parties from Užica have been moved from various centres. One, the Telecommunications Centre was moved, although we had a 031 call number, which in Uzic, the former Yugoslavia, was only one of the nine that ends up on the unit. The power distribution, which has the best charge in Serbia, which has the highest number of hydrocentrals, because the party's staff was from the Democratic Party, has been transferred to the Kingdom. Also, military division in Valjevo, etc. Finally, NIS, headed by former municipality president Tihomir Petkovic of the DSS, will move workers, travel to Cačak. So, absolutely, you didn't appreciate that potential, but after 2003 you simply removed all competences from that city, but without grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39328	Mr. Vlajko Senic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39329	I would just like to look at one political dimension of the Regional Development Act and the fact that we cannot expect the Regional Development Act to be adopted by proposing, voting and adopting it, for example, the Republic Statistical Office. That was good, because I suppose at that point, the Institute experts would introduce economic, political parameters, regional, population, social product, and from this formula what would be most ideal from the statistical point of view for Serbia, in that sense, the statistical division of the region in Serbia. However, we are constantly ignoring the fact that here we are today discussing the Law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia where we are sitting as representatives of different political parties, where we are sitting as representatives of different parts of Serbia and where in order for one such law to receive majority support, we must all together provide a majority that will support such a law. That is why we are confronted with different political interests, not only from different political parties but even from the same political parties, because it is quite logical that people try to promote as much as they can for their end, for their region, for their municipality, in order to justify the trust of the voters who voted for them. All this set of different interests and political realities brings us to this point that we cannot expect the adopted law to fully satisfy every party here or every center, city, village or municipality in Serbia. What is important, we have taken the political responsibility to launch this topic and to raise the issue of Serbia's regionalisation. We're not running away from it. The charges were also heard here that it was part of some of our party's campaign, and I would say that this is completely legitimate and that no other political party is forbidden to present its proposals and ideas in relation to any issue that is important to society in Serbia, whether it is regionalisation, whether it is economics, finance, foreign policy, defence, whatever it is, there is an obligation for each party to state its position or its concept in which the area of society would be arranged. Our additional obligation is because we are part of the ruling coalition, we have a responsibility politically assumed when the government is formed on the issue of economics and regional development of Serbia. So you can't accuse us of using for political promotions what is part of the Government Act, which has been voted here by the assembly majority and which has instructed us to deal with the issue of regionalisation within the Serbian Government. In this way, I am convinced of the best at this point, we are making a proposal, we are discussing the law, the amendments, the public debate is under way, but this is only the first step in the core regionalisation of Serbia. It is obvious that this is a topic that, regardless of who will be in power tomorrow in Serbia, will no longer be able to move from the main political menu and that any party, the ruling coalition, will have to answer the question of how to regionalise Serbia. Because time in the field has forced us to meet this problem because we see that on the political scene local leaders, regardless of whether people came from their midst, have created a political party there, or have some local leaders of larger parties who have eventually recognised their local interest more actively than they are involved in national policy, so they are looking for support in Belgrade for more equal regional development. The fact is that we are the need of citizens, political parties, organizations, etc. recognized, doesn't mean anything negative. I think it means positive. That is why it is also such an outfit within the whole story, yet it does not prevent anyone else from being in the same way or even better, which would again be in the interest of Serbian citizens, to deal with the problem and to give some solutions that could either make a better law or to improve the existing one. We are not running from the political dimension of this law, but no law in the Assembly, in the Government, in any normal democratic state can be passed unless there is a clear political will behind it. We show a clear political will to work on Serbia's regionalisation, statistical, political and each other. We need support for this and our partners in the government, and we need support from opposition parties, because I think it is a question that is not just a question of a government or a political party. It is therefore impossible to imagine the situation of today's adoption of the Regional Development Act, whatever solution it was, which would ensure the consent of parties, all individuals in parties or all parts of Serbia, but huge progress is the fact that such a law is passed and that the topic of regionalisation is put in line with all other major national issues. I think that, first of all, this debate will benefit Serbian citizens who can see that not only in the election campaign for some local elections, as it may have been once the case, not only after 2000, and before 2000, care for some parts of Serbia or some specific municipality, but that this is indeed one process that will allow us to, in the coming period, endlessly, which is ahead of us, this issue in Serbia will be resolved statistically, both politically and economically. We as a party at this point support this story. We've been behind the question of regionalization, aware of all these doubts that will arise because not all interests can at some point be calmed down, but if that's the case, it doesn't mean you don't have to do anything. It does not mean that you cannot satisfy every MP in the hall or every place in Serbia is an argument for you to say – okay, until this absolute agreement is reached we will not pass that law and we will not seek support from the Assembly. By passing this law, we will rightly open the process of essential regionalisation in Serbia. You know well that if this political regionalisation continues later, it also means changing the Constitution, amending many laws. So, it's not something that can end up in any session of the Parliament or in any government mandate, but I am convinced that this law is the right start and that at one point it will be said that this was the first concrete step that any government or any ministry has made to raise the question of regionalisation in real and responsible way. For this reason, I think that the adoption of this law is extremely important for the citizens of Serbia and that in the coming period they will also recognise the concrete opportunities that will be opened because Serbia recognises the fact that it cannot live as a multiple centralised country, but that it must be a country that will open up to every citizen, as far as possible, an equal chance of achieving its rights, whether it is business, whether it is education or political interests. So I believe that at this point this is a good, excellent bill and that it will receive support in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39330	Eight minutes of MP time was used. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39331	Since I attended the meeting mentioned by Ms. Micic in Uzica, Mrs. Kalanovic and all the presidents of the Zlatibor district municipalities, I feel it is necessary to say that Mrs. Kalanovic at the time did not promise any promise that the Zlatibor district would be preserved, I have made it clear that all those demagogue stories and threats and the introduction of fears to the citizens of the Zlatibor district that someone intends to gas the districts are not correct. They're no promises. On the other hand, I believe Mr Dinkic's statement in the principle debate here has not been directed at the abolition of the district for any moment. It is clear to all of us that the Ministry of Economy is not responsible for administrative districts, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are responsible. His discussion was about the administrative environment, and we are all aware of it in Serbia, not having the weight or the importance we would expect from some middle level of government. So, the role of administrative districts in Serbia today is clear, nor did Mr Dinkic, to say, advocate the abolition of the district, nor will anyone do so in the coming period. So that's another demagogue story. As for the departure of some centres, some companies and systems from Užica, it is true, however, Ms. Micic did not say that that year when the centre of the EPS left Užica that its Civil League was in power in Užica and that it participated in some commissions negotiated with the Ministry of Energy, headed by Mr. Naumov, and failed to return the EPS centre from the Kingdom to Užica until today. It also means, by respecting the good intentions of Ms. Micic towards one essential decentralisation and one serious regionalisation, I must remind you that after 2000, Ms. Micic was in one high post in this assembly and we all expected more from Užica, that through the proposal of serious laws, and also on the topic of regionalisation and core decentralisation of Užica, she will gain much more. Me and many Ubiquitouss are disappointed why we didn't take advantage of that opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39332	Two minutes and 15 seconds of the group's time spent. Does anyone else want a word in the debate under the government's amendment to Article 12? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I refer to the amendment I have submitted, and it is related to the next member, I must, of course, notice here on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party a few things we heard in this debate, and above all a few of the things that Mrs Kalanovic said as a representative of the government. In fact, Mrs. Kalanovic said in her discussion that something in our heads we cannot understand. You were talking about statistics and my answer to such a thing would be to make us understand something in our heads, you have to offer arguments, which are based on logic and have meaning. If you want to narrow it down to a political modern jargon, it'll be a sustainable character. The sustainable development of a country must be based primarily on documents that are sustainable, and you have no argument to say that when it comes to the equal regional development of the Republic of Serbia because you have a mortgage on it, you cannot say that the preconditions for such a thing are good, because you change the law after eight or nine months. What certainly doesn't give you the right to laugh about such serious things is that you and the other law defend with the same arguments. Let me remind you that the criteria for defining statistical regions were the same eight months ago, they are the same today. It is the same dictionary that you defended statistical regions, seven in Serbia, and the same vocabulary and the same arguments you use today, when you convince us that we should have five regions, that what helps Serbia not to have the stains you're talking about, and that something we need to chew and accept. If we had heard you earlier with these arguments, we might have accepted as one of the amendments that this would be a law on a more even development of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what it is today or yesterday, which is why you should hear that you at least have a little bit of skepticism or doubts about this law challenges. You are also criticised by this law by political parties in this assembly, which have a completely opposed concept and approach to regional development. Some of them are in favor of political regionalization, some of them for another species. The Serbian Radical Party advocates a balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Serbia, but we are against regionalisation, which you impose and which your boss does not want to hide that this law is the basis for political regionalisation. You are now asking us to understand something in our heads. You say we're the only country who doesn't have a law on regional development. Is the opposition guilty too? You were really short here yesterday, but it didn't limit you to see a lot of anxiety and tension and dissonant tones here. Who's to blame for Serbia's lack of such a law? We do. We in opposition, or you who passed the law eight months ago, have no day of application in practice and now offer us some new law. You have no arguments to defend this and it is not a problem, from the aspect of any political party that Serbia will receive documents on which to provide itself with a balanced regional development. We dispute the concept that you are proposing, and you will allow us, is not the only concept that is acceptable to Serbia, which promotes your party or your part of the government that is currently controlling it. You put a mortgage on it, and maybe we could understand you talking like this about how you needed money, that you needed time in 2001. Ten years after participation in all governments, you're now convincing us that we don't have the money and we don't have the time. We don't have time to change the laws every six months or a year, and in the meantime we don't apply them. That's the essence of this problem. No one's challenging the need. We will later say what our concept is and how we think it should be done as harmless, as it is politically much safer and as it provides, I repeat by who knows which way, absolute territorial and development cohesion of the Republic of Serbia. But you're all set for tomorrow. You are handling the verse, in politics the verse is dangerous, and you are bringing before us MEPs political projects that have no meaning, and that Mr. Senic has just said that an odymic is being created towards them. It's really creating an otium because you haven't made any logical, meaningful and sustainable arguments to defend this concept. As far as my amendment is concerned, it refers to Article 12, or Article 26 of the basic law. We haven't changed our relationship to regionalization, but here's a different amendment we intervened on this bill of yours. Here we ask that the number of council members change from 26 to 28. It is, of course, related to the next amendment, so that I can adequately explain it, and I will speak later and with the amendment to Article 34. So we suggested that the National Council for Regional Development be created, that its structure and composition be different. When I explain the next amendment, I'll try to explain it, but obviously it's based on all of this that the government has remained completely deaf and deaf and blind on all the proposals that came from the opposition, no matter who they come from. It is one of the indicators that this law will pass as well as the law you passed eight or nine months ago, nor will it experience its application in practice, nor will any citizen you call upon and whose name you allegedly do this benefit from this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39334	Four minutes and 30 seconds of authorized representative time. Since you've had five minutes and 10, then it's available for a minute. The word is a folk letter from Natasa Micic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39335	I replicate my colleague Mitrovica, who mentioned me several times and who showed that he absolutely did not misread me, but you absolutely do not seem to understand what I'm talking about. Among other things, I said that this law continues to work on the foundation of a party state, which is very bad. You have done a party service to Rasim and Sulja, but you have done damage to all citizens, and to their voters, regardless of their nationality, whether they are Bosniaks, Serbs or Montenegrins. Plus you made those national tensions. That's one thing. So, according to the party key, you decide what's good for a ending, for something, let's say this Tornik you're waving at us all the time, did someone ask you to do to us Tornik. Maybe we thought it would be better for Drina or Tara, or for the gasification of the Prosperity, or for the modernisation of the Purpose, so maybe some lives would be saved. Or infrastructure. Who decided that? Mr Mitrovica, I know that you were not involved in politics until 2003, so there is absolutely no MP, including the DSS, they will confirm to you, which will tell you that the Civil Union of Serbia has ever collaborated with the DSS, especially after 2003. So, if we could have had representatives with Minister Naum's meetings, it was absolutely untrue. That's what you're serving to get through one of these disastrous proposals for changes and additions to bad law. With these changes and additions, as Krasic would say, you have only made the situation worse. I repeat, according to the party key, I was saying that according to the party key, the centres moved away, not because I'm saying it was supposed to be the Civil League or the LDP, so now I'm trying to get them back, not because the arguments, I repeat, the EPS, the charge, the number of hydrocentrals, the military district, the catastrophe that was also the center, Telekom, I said why, PTT, I also said why. You're the one who's been dragging this into party influence. So if it's a Verko or a Palma now and it's got an influence on the government, this law just checks it out. That's what I'm talking about, and you've absolutely shown that you haven't realized what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39336	National MP Branislav Mitrovica, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39337	First of all, when it comes to Tornik, no one is on their own, of course, investing in Tornik, but there is something called the Master Plan of Mount Zlatibor, which was adopted and based on which to invest in Tornik. I don't see why you're fighting to be invested in Tornik and Zlatibor and the entire neighborhood of 850 million, where they're employees and citizens of Užica, and Zlatibor and Chatine. I don't see why that's your problem. When I said that you were in power when the EPS left Užica, I'm not lying, you were in power at the time. Then Mr. Naumov was Minister of Energy. Whether I understand it or not, to leave it, but it seems to me that the citizens don't understand you, which I see on the ground every day is a problem with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39338	Right on the line, National MP Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39339	Tell me the effects. What profit did Tornik bring, how many new jobs? Or could it have been better invested? It doesn't have to be Uzice, maybe Voyar Pozega, Prebojska Banja, maybe in the Zlatibor Chigota itself, rehab center. Where is it? Explain to me, where are the parameters? Where are the criteria? Secondly, Mr. Mitrovica, for God's sake, don't make yourself ridiculous, I absolutely didn't take part in the government in 2004. It's just everybody knows that. I don't know how you can try to deceive viewers when everyone knows it. It's just amazing. For Tornik, it bothers me that there are no priorities and criteria. What are the effects of Tornik? The bathroom barely dug up the most important ski center this year, you've sown various ski resorts and now as Tornik? What did this Tornik bring us, except you beat that money up in vain? Now, that bothers me. You can wave a team of masters, but who makes these master plans, do they ask any questions from the citizens of this Goldibor County? How about what Dinkic says he'll take out the districts? So another level of centralization. It's really amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39340	National MP Branislav Mitrovica and this circle of replicas is closing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39341	I was misread. I just explained what Mr. Dinkic was saying about the county and I think that's where you and I agree. The districts are something that doesn't reflect the desire for core decentralisation, and that's not the middle level of government that we all strive for. I was head of the county, so I know exactly what the districts are doing, the administrative district, and what their role is. Of course no one said they would be abolished at the moment, but Mr Dinkic said they were not essentially the middle level of government between central and local authorities. That's where we didn't get along. As for Tornik, I don't want to open the story any further, ask the people of Zlatibor if it's necessary to invest in Tornik. Who was doing the master's plan? It was made by professional people, I guess, chosen in some tender. It's not yours and mine to make a master's plan now. We're MPs, but we don't have to get involved in anything or anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39342	National MP Natasa Micic. I ask you to close this circle of replicas and use in replicas the challenge of what the previous speaker said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39343	Let's see that Tornik. So Chaetina is one of the smaller and richest municipalities in Serbia, with the largest budget in terms of population. Chaetin could have financed it herself. She could have invested in it on the basis of that budget and such revenues from Zlatibor's tourist taxis. You know what this is about? The local government in Chatetina resolved individual demands and bought votes, so they stayed in power and today from the DSS, and you gained people on the republican level by making some of your projects that seemed convenient to you as necessary and good. I'm telling you, give me this year's effects? How many skiers were there? Are skiers the most important in this country? How many skiers were there on Tornik this year? How busy are the people in that district or the region? How did that speed up economic development in terms of that 850 million, how much did you invest? You better invest with the municipality and other municipalities in the demining of Ponikva, not that we have bombs standing there, along with some international organisations, that you have cleared up the airport of Ponikava, so that it has been a tourist service for all places, for the whole region, and for interregional co-operation, since we are here at the border with BiH, Montenegro and Croatia, wasn't that better? There are a million examples, I don't even know what it is, but it's not true that we don't have to deal with it. No, we're supposed to keep quiet? I started doing politics because I don't let anything go past me and someone makes me a fool, right to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39344	The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic. The time available for the G17 parliamentary group is 15 minutes and 15 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39345	I'm using the MP's time group. At this point, there is one thing that speaks of tensions related to the Zlatibor and part of Raška district. It seems to me that the ministry and government are completely unwarrantedly accused that it is those who cause tension in the Zlatibor and the Rasko district. I did yesterday, but I don't think it's a waste, and now again, I said that the tensions of neither this law nor this government, nor this ministry are challenging in the Raška and Moravik district, the tensions that simply try to get cheap political points by saying that people from one territory of the Zlatibor County will go for projects in Novi Pazar and that people from the territory of the Zlatibor district have no touch points with the Arandevec, Kragujevac, the King and other cities belonging to the region of Shumadia and Western Serbia. They will not say that the law provides for minimum four regional development agencies in the territory of Šumadija and Western Serbia and that these minimum four development agencies will recognise projects that are related to co-operation with certain municipalities. Whether it will be two, three or four, it does not matter at all, are municipalities that will assess in which regional development agency they will be members and municipalities will be the ones who will jointly define projects that will be financed from the EU's ministries of resolution or pre-accession funds. The other thing is, if we're talking about plans, then all the plans are in public debate. Master plan for tourism development in Zlatibor, Zlatar, Golia, were at public debates in local self-governments and were in Čajetina, Užica, Novi Varoša, Kralje, Ivanjica, in any city. Every local self-government had the right to public debate to say whether any strategic directions defined by the master plan were good or not. The component of these master plans is action plans and I assume that when the ministries call for a grant contest, whether through the Ministry of National Investment Plan or some other ministry, they call and check whether the components of these master plans are components. I'm sorry, we've killed ourselves here by saying that we want Serbia's decentralisation, that we want local self-government to ask more questions about where the funds are going to be invested, because they know citizens' problems best because they work there, but right behind that we say, "I'm sorry, and then we accepted a proposal from the Municipality of Chatettin to appreciate the development of tourism, or ski resorts in Tornik, because they probably need it very much to increase the number of tourists in Zlatibor and to use those sports that are important for the development of tourism. We can also set up – why are the money invested to develop tourism on Zlatar? Because there's a wire in the Zlatar. I know local self-government in Nova Varosha all the time in its development plans says that the development of tourism in Zlatar can't do without the ski resorts that have now been done. So here is one serious thing – do we want decentralisation or centralised? I think we've been talking about decentralisation all along, and we've got a lot of centralization in our subconscious. As far as G17 plus is concerned, we are both political and in reality showing one thing – we want Serbia's full decentralisation, step by step. It is true that we as a parliamentary group have proposed a law to return property to local self-government laws. Therefore, these are all steps that must take place in Serbia in the coming period, in order for Serbia to be a decentralised country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39346	Three minutes and 40 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. The time available for the parliamentary group is 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39347	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, representatives of the government, the fact you presented, Mrs Kalanovic, that Serbia has no law, is false. Serbia has a law. Today we are amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act. This situation reminds me of a situation in Serbia. Usually, the government proposes a budget law once a year, so when it is in short supply, it rebalances the budget. I suppose that whenever the political crisis is in the government, there will be a change and a addition to the Regional Development Act, we will settle some political parties. According to the report, Mrs Kalanovic, it is certain that Mr Mladjan Dinkic, perhaps Mr. Ugljanin, the portfolio-free minister, who was involved in state development, should be sitting next to you. Maybe Rasim Ljajic could be there, but they're not there. It's a good thing you're here to answer certain questions about the place. In fact, the motive for adopting this law, as Mladjan Dinkic said, is also political, surely. He also said at that time that the Bureau of Statistics, taking some statistical parameters, had designated seven regions. It was in July, so said Mladjan Dinkic, take a stenogram, you can check it out. These statistical regions are what the Bureau of Statistics has designated. I'm curious how it's possible that over the nine months since the law was in place, there's been such an increase in Serbia's standard or that an exodus of people from one end of Serbia to the other, that you had to reduce two statistical regions and that Serbia now has five statistical regions? Mladjan Dinkic also said that this law will best get municipalities that are underdeveloped, so he cited the ratio of undeveloped and developed municipalities 1:15. He also said that he would receive the most of the residents of the administrative districts, where the ratio of developed and undeveloped 1:7 was developed. I think it's pure demagogy, Mrs. Kalanovic, for one simple reason, and now I'm going to give you the facts. Last year, by a government regulation, you abolished five billion transfers to local self-government. The most affected were these underdeveloped municipalities. The community I come from is Leskovac. We had 130 million budget deficits, precisely because of that government regulation. We are the fifth-largest municipality and we have competed at the NIP with 135 million projects, and we have all realised half of these projects. Mayor Slobodan Kostic said he was promised 400 million from the NIP in talks with you. There's nothing out of those funds. Let me tell you one more thing, in time, at the time of the campaign, Mladjan Dinkic and Boris Tadic have opened a company called "Kloting", perhaps you know it, a businessman from Cyprus who has received certain subsidies to create new jobs. Then Mladjan Dinkic said – this is the beginning of the light of the new "little Manchester". Leskovac was the new little Manchester for one simple reason, you know, as the biggest textile center in the last century. However, this same "Kloting" was with all the machines that were in the company, escaped, with all the money the government granted him. Will someone be responsible for those funds that this distinguished gentleman, who they say is now on Interpol's list? So, Mrs. Kalanovic, we from the DSS certainly won't vote for this law for a few reasons. The first is because this is the initial chapel for the adoption of a new constitution. Secondly, it seems to me that this law leads to a new system, which is a system for Serbia's federalisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39348	Three minutes and 45 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Time is available for 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39349	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Ministers, it is obvious that in the debate in particular over the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Equal Regional Development, it is precisely those neural points that I have been trying to point out in the debate, in search of the principle, with the ambition to prevent misunderstandings and to remove confusions that can then spread unfoundedly in public. It seems that such a neural point is just about what's going on in the Zlatibor County and the controversy we're hearing right now between the MPs coming from Užica or are in a certain way related to the topic. I'll remind you of that sentence from the debate in principle, that this is not a law on regionalization. This law, despite my party's "Together for the Forest", along with the G17-plus MP group in general, also wants Serbia's regionalisation, does not feel that the problem solves the strategy of adopting this law at a small door, nor is it possible to implement it. This law has a primary economic character, as it is primarily related to the topic of equal regional development. In order to address Serbia's political regionalisation, the topic should first have a stem law on regions. She would likely touch on the topic of Serbia's territorial organisation, and even more likely require previous constitutional changes, although there are still open issues among experts on the subject. This is a law that does not violate the coherence of the existing legal system and hence has no connotation of regionalism as they wish to be attributed to it. I say unfortunately he doesn't, because he can't even have them. What makes this subject spin in one direction toward the meaning that the law objectively does not have? That might be the real point of thinking. When it comes to enjoying the problem, I would like to stress one specificity. Decentralisation as a process and regionalisation as a segment of this widely understood process certainly involves the affirmation of urban culture. Look, there's no doubt that urbanity implies one of the civilization's relevant, fine, noble shades of obsolescence, but urban culture is something that is fundamentally different from localistic provincialism. Provincialisms when they are in the process of decentralisation rise to panic, with ambition to reach the attributes of the regional centre, can in fact only lead to the further collapse of the urban spirit in their area, if they do not understand the essence of the urban centre that lies in opening and connecting, not with similar and different environments, but with the civilizational heritage of humanity in general. Cities, in fact, swallow, devour and feed on mankind's civilizational heritage. As one place can be opened to such a cultural dimension, there are more prerogatives and relevant stops to become a regional centre. No city, including my Kragujevac, has become nor will it become a regional centre because its local political option has entered the coalition with G17 plus or because Minister Mladjan Dinkic, or Minister Kalanovic or any government has declared it a decree. The fact that opinion leaders in Kragujevac, persons from sports, culture, art, you know, live in Kragujevac, do not come to Belgrade. The fact is that Kragujevac appears in 2008 in Cannes at the International Investment Destinations Fair. The fact is that large planetary relevant investors and business entities, like "Plaza", like "Fiat", like Remington, are looking for their business opportunities in Kragujevac. That's what the Kragujevac is doing at the center. For this reason, it seems to me that this pleasure, completely localistically justified tendency for the position of the center, legitimate in one cultural heritage, seems to be an anti-cultural cry which is little to worry about. What's this about? The need to isolate and burn. How can it be argued in a debate that was heard – what does Užice have to do with Kragujevec? Nothing, except that the university at Uzica is the university of Kragujeva University. How can western Serbia be together with Shumadia, when there is no cultural and historical, ethnographic, economic relationship? Let's not falsify the facts. Ethnology and ethnography exactly the golden type consider the entrance gate of the forest cultural type. The people of Zlatibor wear shakers and chakras, isn't that a fundamentally recognizable sign of a forest climate. It says – western Serbia is a fruity end and cattley, and the Shumadia does not. So who knows exactly the agricultural cultures and their regional spread in Serbia knows that fruit and livestock is exactly the basic agricultural branch in the forest and what the perspective should be built on in the area. Let's not make it up to fiction, falsifying scientific, cultural facts to cover up the need to open up to neighbors, to families who should be called upon to look for their chance, regardless of their origin, regardless of religion, regardless of ethnicity, in our midst. That's how civilization's heritage of urban heritage is nurtured, so one town becomes a city, and the city becomes a regional centre. In this sense, no gesture by Kragujevac contests the fact that the statistical region of Šumadija and Western Serbia does not have an administrative centre, no gesture wants to challenge ambition, let's say, the Zlatiborci, the Užicans, that they are fighting in political regionalisation, if they want to and for their region, we in Šumadija have nothing against it. Let's not just forget one thing that provincialism and regionalism are not compatible, quite the opposite, mutually exclusive. The process of regionalisation and decentralisation, above all, respecting the culture of obsolescence, cultivates the urban potential of a climate and its openness to wide relationships with the world, not just a direct environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39350	Eight minutes and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. National MP Kenan Hajdarevic has been reported. You don't have the time of the parliamentary group at your disposal. Replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39351	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, LDP MPs, when they are discussing the Law on Regional Development in June of last year and now, in the amendments and additions to this law, they are discussing the economic aspects of this law. It is absolutely clear to us that this law does not talk about the real, essential or political decentralisation of Serbia, but we are interested in this law because it is talking about economic decentralisation, that is, how money is spent from European funds and from the budget of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. If we're talking about understanding this law, no one in the previous five or six months has defended this law, the provisions of this law, from LDP MPs on the ground, in the area of the Zlatibor County and Sandzak because your coalition partners don't believe in this law. First, you need to talk about what you're talking about, Mr. Milenic, to convince your partners from the SPS, the PUPS, the DS, whose committees at SO Nova Varosh, Pryboj, are voting for some conclusions that oppose the provisions of this law. First of all, Mr. Milenic, you must convince your coalition partner of the SNS in the Prepolje municipality on the provisions of this law. No one here should talk about the culture of LDP behavior. We are merely trying to point out that this law does not speak of regionalisation, in which we agree, but that this law speaks of economic decentralisation, i.e. that, under the provisions of this law, we have a national council at the level of the Republic of Serbia that should continue to say that someone should spend money and who should spend money in the coming period. We even said that under the provisions of this law, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has 21 additional functions that give it the provisions of this law. It's not decentralisation either, it's not economic decentralisation. I repeat again, you must first your coalition partners convince you of the correctness of this legislative project, and then all together to tell those politicians and those politicians who want to take advantage of this debate and this law to share citizens on the national principle that they must not do so, because it is not our flow, it is not Europe's fluid.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39352	National MP Sasa Milenić, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39353	In short, just the first correction of one fact, me, or my party together for the Forest, and as far as I know, our coalition partner G17 plus, we don't have a SNS for a coalition partner in Prepolje. But more importantly, I haven't objected for a moment, let alone the doctor, and I apologize if that's the impression I've gotten, LDP. I spoke in principle of a cultural pattern behind the advocacy of the political topics of regionalisation at the given moment and in the given environments, not saying at all that the bearer and promoter of this form is necessarily LDP, perhaps because of watching, we are simply so turned around, that you thought this was relevant to you. If you agree, as do we who interpret the changes and additions in this way, that this is only, I will use my own words, the ugly ducks of regionalisation and decentralisation in Serbia, which are yet to grow into a big white swan, then I urge you to jointly convince all the unbelieving Tome, whatever side we come from, that it is for the benefit of all the cities, and the town in Serbia, because it is not about a city representing Serbia in the middle of the world. It's about every village in this country being the center of the world that reflects the planetary periphery.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39354	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39355	I accept your apology, but just one explanation. G17 in the Prepolje municipality in the coalition with DS and SPS supports, i.e. the ruling coalition with the SNS and the Sandzak Democratic Party, and you are in the Prepolje municipality in a coalition with the SNS, with that party trying to tear down this law, using national demagogy and national division.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39356	National MP Mico Rogovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39357	Given this situation and the law that we are talking about from a set of laws, it is a very interesting situation that part of the MPs in the Assembly still behave at the level of local councils and probably because of conflicts of interest and the situation that also the committees in their municipalities, in parliament, speaking on the subject of such serious laws, are discussing the situation in the local, who is in power. In doing so, my esteemed colleague Hajdarevic does not recognise the fact that LDP, for example, is in many cases and in many municipalities in power with the SPS. How some policy will determine a coalition at the bar level, as far as SNS is concerned, depends on people who make up the government at the bar. It really shouldn't be the subject of an LDP or any other party. That's not how we get involved in LDP policy at the bar either. Here in Parliament, today we have a situation to discuss much more serious matters and we should deal with it, not the questions of local committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39358	National MP Arsen Djuric, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39359	I am extremely pleased that here in Parliament there is a lot of talk about the Municipality of Chatitina as one successful municipality, given that I am an MP from Chatitina, I would like to say only a few things, as investments in Chatitina have been mentioned on several occasions and whether they are correct or not. When it comes to Ski Centre Tornik, I must say that the previous government has begun to build this ski centre, that this government has completed the construction of this ski centre. The Tornik ski centre is in Serbia's tourism development strategy, but also the master of the Zlatibor-Zlatar plan, which was declared a promising ski centre, and it will certainly become this year, when the system for artificial refreshment is completed. It will also become extremely profitable for Serbia's ski resorts, but it is also very important for the municipality of Cajetina, Zlatibor, for the entire Zlatibor district, because I hope more guests will come to Zlatibor. What we agree on is that decentralisation of Serbia is necessary and it is not disputed. I've just said it's good and I've told you it many times, the law you've proposed, when it comes to the law on public property. This is the essence of decentralisation and thus needs to be decentralised by Serbia, the law on public property and economic and fiscal decentralisation. Then it won't matter who's in charge of the municipality, where they're going to invest or not. The Tchaitina municipality doesn't have that problem. Indeed, there has been a lot of investment by the state in both previous governments and this government, but it is important that municipalities get economic and fiscal decentralisation, return their assets and revenues, and then they will have their own resources to invest in some of their own projects. The Tchaitina municipality has invested and received a lot of funds from both the previous and this government. She invested a lot from her own resources and just before was presented by Mrs. Micic, who said the DSS was buying votes for some of the various projects in the previous elections. I would like to say that since 2004, in the municipality of Chajetina, absolute power has been being exercised by the DSS, that we have done a great deal of our own budget of the municipality itself, and the local roads, and the waterway, and the sewerage and electrification of the municipality, that we have created extremely favourable conditions and a good environment for private investment, because there are much more important and greater private investments in the municipality of Chatettin than investments from the budget of the municipality and the Republic. They're a lot bigger, these private investments, and that's the right thing to do for our community. By saying that we were buying votes, the citizens recognized our activities and in 2008, the DSS received over 50% of the votes in Chatin Municipality and LDP slightly less than 3%.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39360	National MP Branislav Mitrovica. The time available for the G17 Group of MPs plus is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39361	Just one brief explanation. I am responsible for saying that in the municipality of Prepolje the party G17 plus is not in power with the coalition mentioned, nor with the party of the SNS. In the municipality of Prepolje, we have one councilman, Mr. Luhar, who, from case to case, votes for proposals or against a proposal for a coalition that is at the bar. I responsibly argue that the party G17 plus in Prijepolje has no single function, not even the smallest board of directors of local and public enterprises. But it does not prevent us, nor our ministers, from working well with the municipality of Prepolje. I will remind you once again, the construction of a huge capital facility is under way, the largest since the Second World War in Prepolje, a bridge across the Lim River, which will benefit all members and citizens of Prepolje, regardless of party membership.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39362	The time used by the parliamentary group is 50 seconds. National MP Sladjan Mijaljevic has been reported. Does he use the time of the parliamentary group? The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is six minutes and 30 seconds. The name of the MP was in the electronic system. I have to read it. Does anyone else report for the word, by discussing the amendment submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, that in article 12, "26" is replaced by "28"? No, I don't. ) The experience of Vice-President Novakovic is to submit amendments that provoke a heated debate. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39363	As I said earlier, under the previous amendment, I think these two, in fact, are not, but these two amendments are related to each other and the adoption of this amendment would, of course, be a premise for the adoption of the one we were just talking about. It refers to the members of the National Council for Regional Development, its structure and what the government was managing when it defined the composition, managed by one senseless decision – how minimal there will be regional development agencies that have been accredited on the territory of one region. Here we have suggested that all regions defined by this law have in the national council equal representation, and that anyone, regardless of differences, has, if I may so call it, some majorisation in that national council. Now there's an objective question here. The amendment also relates to Article 17, i.e. a member of the 34th basic law, which defined the minimum number of regional development agencies in the regions. We are interested alive, it is not impossible, everything is possible to put on paper – how can the government limit the minimum number of institutions that it does not establish? We're not saying it's impossible to write on paper. We understand that you have defined mechanisms to limit the maximum number, but you are limiting the minimum number of regional development agencies. Now you say - there must be four accredited in that district. What if the interest of local self-government is not four, but three? What if it's four, and in time one loses accreditation and has three? Then it'll be all the time in college with the law. On the one hand, you say here, look, the law that we think is really pointless and unnecessary, in this way that it is written, let's make a sense thing proposed, you are creating a place to discredit the institution of accreditation that you yourselves are predicting, because of the fact that in one territory, in one region, you do not have a law defining the number of accredited agencies. You'll take it, and you'll force the Agency to credentialize the Uuss of the Law, an agency that doesn't deserve to be accredited, which has lost the status of an accredited, so you'll unaccounted for accreditation, so you'll give international financial institutions a chance to come up with projects that go through an unaccredited, or incompetent development agency and thus open a bench and, specifically, on the ground, unthink additionally senseless law anyway. That's why we can't support this nonsense. That is why we believe that this is not the basis for good and fundamentally balanced regional development of the Republic of Serbia. You have wasted so much time on Serbia that you have no right to such adventures. We said it yesterday. At all, this law and your involvement in all this did not need to be formed and accredited by regional development agencies. There are also until the adoption of the first law, the basic version, and there will be no law. Successful projects have been implemented, successfully applied to international and financial institutions for money. They got money for quality projects, but these projects didn't need this law, and nobody else next to you who proposes this concept of regional development is unthinking, because it doesn't make sense and it doesn't appear in this law. The second question is – what are the local self-government itself administratively and in any other way capacitative to recognize their interest in all of this in an adequate way? There are local self-governments that I repeat, this was not necessary, but there are local self-governments that, unfortunately, ten more years need to be able to adequately identify the interests of individual strategies, concepts or ways to approach their development. In this congregation, you boast that you are in power in over 100 municipalities, or local self-government in RS territory. What's devastating is that you're bringing this law into contact with decentralisation. You are talking about decentralisation, and almost all institutions, apart from regional development agencies, will form a government or ministry controlled by Mr Dinkic. Never has the state been more centralised than it is now. One law to which the Government will form everything you call a law in the function of decentralisation. It's pointless and it's ultimately hypocritical, and yesterday the opposition was honored to act hypocritically. Take a look at your local self-government situation. The first exam you offered as a government to local self-government to carry out a kind of decentralisation is in some way the Law on Planning and Construction. See how the requirements and responsibilities, which the Government passed through that law to local self-government, this principle was in some way decentralisationd and implemented, because this is something that local self-governments should have recognized and realised their interest, created conditions, created ways to provide additional revenues in their budget through the legalisation process. Not only have they not adequately responded, but the local kabadiahs, which the ministry also says are good associates and partners, have done their best to make sense of it, to destroy and promote lawless construction, to promote lawlessness, to promote crime. Now you assure us that this is in the spirit and context of decentralisation. Now the government will finally start implementing the concept of decentralisation, and at the same time you have done everything possible to make Serbia both financially and in any other sense the most centralised state in Europe, not politically but institutionally, in any other sense. So all of this is just a forest and all of this will experience the same fate as the law you adopted eight months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39364	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39365	This amendment is a good cause, since we are at the end of this debate, to round up a continent called what you put on the agenda. So it took you nine months to realize that from that European concept there was an even more European concept, so now you've offered it. Since we know exactly who we're dealing with, we're only in this debate on some subject, and then you've come up with your own concept, and here's a few examples for that. First, the lady representing the government here said that there was some concept and that you would divide Vojvodina into three regions. So then we reminded you that when this topic is opened that centrifugal and centrifugal forces are growing and that certain political issues are inevitably being raised. So you're from the representatives of the people who come from Uzic and the environment you've heard all kinds of division and discrimination. Now we've heard who's with whom. We also saw that if we didn't have a ski resort, we'd shaved bostan or we'd have a sledgehammer. No ski resort, no regional development. Probably in the next phase, we'll be able to consider a law that will end pensions, because pensions are also a big cost. You've told me everything. Then some of them talked – it's good, it's regionalization, so decentralisation and you've messed everything up and you've made a mistake. The RS constitution does not allow for what you are involved in. The RS constitution only guarantees the right of citizens to develop evenly. You've made a complete mistake. Just to remind you, in 2001, some of the sublegal acts passed by the RS government found that in some places some centres, some institutions that should be considered regional development should be built. Now you've gone one step further. Now you want to make institutions, but you don't know how to define them. We would like it to look like something the EU recognises, so that you would allegedly approach some funds to take some money. You're only interested in money. You're not interested in the reason. Just to remind you, when it was the Law on the financing of local self-government, you were also doing some criteria, but it doesn't lie to the devil, next year you immediately cut budget transfers to local self-governments by 15 billion. You did it. What criterion? By the head of the population, by the territory, by the surface, by the schedule of health institutions, by educational institutions? You forgot about that. In the campaigns, you promise to hire and draw money from the budget, while in the budget you are pushing for a reduction in the number of employees and to abolish transfer funds towards municipalities. Remember once and for all, deetatisation means when something that is the jurisdiction of the state is left to something called local self-government or no longer becomes a state business. Decentralisation is when the competent authority is changed, so it is no longer in Belgrade or in a headquarters but is moving to a local community. I've been a little bit of a cartoon. During this debate, we had the opportunity to hear that you are potentiating an argument between the environments, including future regions, and Serbia must not have regions. You know that yourself. I wouldn't be surprised if you kept at this pace to make a fight between the streets in a populated place in a year. You don't care how some part of Serbia develops. You're interested in money and you put it into that story and ski resorts and master plans and some public debate. I wanted to faint when I heard earlier – a central form of government. It doesn't exist in Serbia. The government is what the state does, and what local self-government does is local self-government. It's not power. Serbia has administrative districts to coordinate certain state affairs. No, you didn't meet your appetites with the county chiefs and the districts and you didn't want to come to exactly what we warned you about. So, regionalize forget it. The fact that you're curious about that money from abroad, so you're calling for access funds and some kind of agreement, just to remind you because of the amendment to the agreement, you've made it possible for someone to build a party. So it's just the money. There's no RS citizens here. There is no per capita to balance the development of every municipality, every city, every village. There's no such thing with you. You're supposed to be making some of your regional centers. You don't know how to design them, to do feasibility studies, and they don't even know what natural potentials are, or what economic potentials are, what traffic is, what communication is. No, the chair and the ability to acquire funds. Of course we don't want any part of it. We have submitted only a few amendments to the amendment and supplement laws to give us space to remind you. I'm going to be very happy to use the stenogram of today's session to remind you of what you used as an argument. Decentralisation – first step, deetatisation – first step, regionalisation – first step. You started to refer to European standards of appearance and the size of the region, so you said statistically, so it's not statistical, it's economic, it's not economic, it's not political, it's neither political nor economic. Then what is it? Then it comes down to ski resorts. This project is about how to build ski resorts to get citizens to sledgehammer. We invite citizens to know. You'll be sown with this kind of power. We're against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39366	Seven minutes of MP time was used. There are 44 minutes and 30 seconds left. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 13, refers to the composition of the National Council. What SNS intervention is in the sense that, when it comes to regional representatives, it is clear that it is our opinion that their mandate should not be longer than four years. What is more important, and speaking of this law, let us still focus a little on real problems. When it comes to regional development, I think we've spent a lot of time arguing in regions, in municipalities, in areas. The main problem in regionalisation and regional development today is the fact that more than half of the total monthly earnings fund goes to the public sector, to public enterprises, to the state administration, and that the population of public sector employees is right in Belgrade, right in Novi Sad and that the overall demand, demand for regions, purchasing power by municipalities in the interior depends on whether this country will finally decentralised the state administration. Whether we as MPs are going to advocate decentralisation of the state administration, regardless of whether we are from the government or from the opposition, it will also depend on the position of our municipalities, our economies in a shorter period of time, because what I was talking about yesterday, that our economy is primarily importable and necessary to change economic policy towards an export economy, we cannot get to it quickly, but to carry out decentralisation, at least in one part of the state administration, we can get there very quickly. Look only when it comes to agencies. They say there's about 105 agencies. All these agencies are located in Belgrade. Is it possible that here are my Marines, the Jagodins, the Chupricans, the Paracyns are not able to run at least one of those agencies? Is it possible for Kragujevac, that Nis, who are university centres, cannot run at least one of these agencies and therefore, on the basis of the reception of these people who are employed in these agencies, to significantly boost demand in these environments and thus help regional development? That is the essence of it, and this law itself seems to me to be designed to come up with some help from the EU at the moment we enter the EU, but given the situation in the EU, for everything that happens, you saw for yourself when it comes to Greek debt, it is still on a long rope. The entry of new members will be delayed as the EU has many problems. It may have politically integrated, but it certainly did not integrate economically, and the pace of economic integration and stabilisation of its economy will also depend on the entry of new members into the EU. So let's work on what's more important to us right now. Let's turn to essential things, which is that we change the structure of our economy by putting an accent on the industry, on the processing industry, because that depends on the inside, that's what we live on from the inside. Let us at least carry out a partial decentralisation of the state of administration and public enterprises because it will be a much greater aid to us from the inside than this law that you have prepared for this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39368	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who does not want a word. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39369	The amendment to Article 21(3) is related to our amendment to Article 11 which was defended yesterday by counterpart Zoran Antic, which concerns public notice rights on the work of the Agency for Economic Registers in relation to commitments made under this law. The member we're putting the amendment on is that we're adding that the evaluation report is being made public. The explanation the Government gave us in its response is the same as for Article 11, and for Article 21, and says that it's not funny we could really say that this is a serious explanation, but given the experience we have this explanation is, without an apology to the expression, ridiculous. It says – Article 47 provides for the Agency to submit an annual report on its work to the founder. The founder is the government and says the public of the Agency's work is envisaged, including the provision of information of public importance, making all information available to citizens. How much does the government know what their agencies are doing as their founder? How much does he know what accounts they're doing? How much do they transfer to her and how little does the people of Serbia know about it? I thank Mr. Ciric, who filed the suit, so he will allow us, in an unusual court procedure, to familiarise the citizens with the flow of money and billing for one agency because we cannot do so in a procedure that is supposed to be followed by laws. Why am I supposed to say respect? Well, they don't respect each other. If, for example, everything is presented and related to the abuses of the agency, which we will talk about in the following laws, millions of euros spent illegally, which we do not have a lot of records of, of which it is chosen to defend, allegedly, mother or father for severance and if it is used, for example, information in disdaining the discussions you present. And when you say that Radovan Jelasic and Mr Djelic with programmed careers came from Mac Kinsi's department, one from Paris, the other from Frankfurt, Mr Dinkic tells you – mix the Deutsche Bank from Frankfurt and the Mac Kinsi Agency. Here, since that's not the case, I can instruct the citizens to go to the Mac Kinsey website. I'm talking about the public of work. Don't think I'm moving away from the subject. You type into McKinsey's website, Mckins. He worked here as a consultant, all four years, at a low level, but worked with Mac Kinsi, who deals with investment and consulting services. If someone dares to say that what is called the public of work and exists as evidence, in fact, to millions of citizens from this pay phone that it is public, you expect us to believe that a member of the 47th is scheduled to inform the public about his work, to be enough to know how you manage the funds? It is not enough because even when the question is asked whether and when Mr Dinkic's mother stopped working at the party Institute, whose minister illegally, without public procurement procedures, transferred 100,000 euros of net money, or transferred one half, I suppose the other in this year, but for one we have proof. So, illegally, in the conflict of interest, to the party institute, where his mother had 30% of the action, which she then said, passed on to someone else so that she would not be in conflict of interest, and when the competent organisation, the NGO, for which you are now opening a new office, submitted a request – why was it only in March asked to correct that Mrs Mirosinka Dinkic was no longer the deputy chairman of the Management Board? Three years later, the Agency for Economic Registers, which is this Article of the 11th Law, and the public of the work of the 47th member, is not responding at all – when was the request for a change of data submitted? So, what is the legal provision for – that someone is obliged to inform the public and that there is a public work, if it is not answered, even those to whom it is in the job description. Why is that interesting? If once it happened to us that Mr Djelic could have gained millions of shares and that no one said, that is, that I am a member of the government, when and if he had sold the shares, where he paid the tax and said that it was not in the government's jurisdiction, because we have one such question, we can now have a minister who says, "My mother is retired". Wait, what bothers the Ministry of Finance to retire, one and the same, and we'll bring that up in court, pay by deed contract and copyright contract? Why did 30% of the action for the alleged non-profit organization be transferred? Were they returned or did this conflict of interest be lifted – that the Minister of Regional Development illegally transferred, without public procurement contracted 100,000 euros, and transferred 50,000, according to the DRI Report, to someone who was employed or retired, but had 30% of the shares there? Are you really underestimating the intelligence of all Serbian citizens, trying to find out that the billions that were in the Agency were in line with the privatisation that she carried out, controlled -- no one or a small part of them, and will find out about a large number of citizens where the money went and who, in what kind of compensation, severance, payment and similar giving, so that you can tell us: "No, this is not a conflict of interest, these are family matters"? I'm an MP here. I'm not happy to appeal to parliamentary immunity. I thank you for the opportunity to talk about it in court if necessary. I'm telling you here -- you can't ask us to take your word for it, because nine years ago, huge money was spent without infrastructure facilities, no bridges. Let me just tell the citizens how hard this is. How much is the great love of the minister, who transferred money to his party institute? Imagine how busy you have in the morning when you go through Gazela to come from New Belgrade to the city, or should we, from the MPs, arrive on time here and participate in the work of this assembly? Billions and millions were spent, and that Gazela couldn't be repaired, but we're arguing, because in this house we adopted one guarantee. So we didn't even see the basic contract, so we accepted, on behalf of all of us and our children, one long-term loan in which the Roma were to be displaced, but in a way that is not as prescribed for anyone or anyone. So maybe you're trying, when you're delivering laws here to present -- that it's about general interest, regional development, good intentions, and I want you to do this good intention, to pass a good law here. But you're changing the law we passed a few months ago, not because you want to improve it or to give the public an insight into how to assess the success of spending and the development of the region, but because you have the opportunity -- to stay, as someone who wonders and decides about life, about employment and everything else, these citizens. So if you are fighting for the public and if you really know what the word "accessible to the public" means, you had to adopt an amendment to Article 11 or at least this amendment to Article 47, where the Agency must deliver a report not only to the founder, but also to this assembly here. Here many forget that the Assembly is a legislative branch of government, that the government is an executive branch, controlled by this legislative body and that the ministries within that executive branch of government, through their agencies, are obliged to submit reports. Unfortunately, at this point, you're delivering the Agency Act, which you're shutting down. By proposing that the Regional Development Minister propose members of the Council, and alone, the Government, of this new stockholder's fund, you abolish even the right of founders to through these people who propose only one man even the founder has control and control over it. The Serbian language is still understood enough. In addition to those most urgent rules on the writing of the law, which were published in the recent "Official Messenger", it is clear enough – that the story of transparency and the public story. Please, don't ask us to take your word for it, but do what you verbally advocate and maybe someone will believe you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39370	The word is made by Minister Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39371	Mrs Tabakovic, it is touching your desire to present the work of not only the National Agency for Regional Development, but of all agencies in all areas of public activity in Serbia. I suppose you know that the Law on Public Agencys makes it very clear that it is possible and that there is no exception to this by the National Agency for Regional Development set up. That touch reminds me of that year, the last time you participated in the government, when in a much harder period for Serbia, in a completely transparent way, you shared apartments here with your high-ranking officials, and only today can we see what it actually looks like. As far as the facts are concerned, this is a word I often repeat and love – you are today raising a new question without Serbia's public getting acquainted with what Mr. Ciric delivered yesterday, even though you mentioned it. This is something that you mentioned last time, which is that the severance that Mr. Ciric's father took from him does not exist and that you have had the completely wrong facts, and that you have received a completely relevant document that has been distributed to journalists in this home – that there was no severance, because Mr. Ciric's father broke up the working relationship and under the law had no right to severance, which was decided voluntarily. Your facts very often, you mentioned the word "convincible" and with adrenaline in some of my previous exhibitions, your adrenaline is not any smaller, but the facts are not what we have, and we have, which is what we document to you in writing, but your questions are for all of those documents and for all of the facts that we will provide to you. I also call on you to have transparency in the work of all institutions, in whose jurisdiction is the Ministry of Economy and in the ministries in which the G17 Plus ministers, who are available to the public, are to be controlled and we are at your disposal, to give you all the additional information. We stand for what you claim we want to hide. No, we don't. We want everything you run to deliver to the public, as we did yesterday, and this is a document – that Mr. Ciric did not take the severance as you claimed last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39372	Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39373	We're going to process all of this. I haven't received any documents yet. First of all, in exposing you, or anyone, I'm the lady who would never use the word "adrenaline" for discussion. Please check the congregation stenograms. Perhaps the word "energy," which is always commendable to me, I would never use that word, either to you or to anyone. Yeah, I'm very interested in how public agencies work. You know why? If we hadn't, for example, had one RTS, who here was legally charged with a subscription, left alone so he could be commercial when he'd fit in, that he'd be handing over sports games whatever he wants, wouldn't be doing the mass of other agencies, like civil aviation directorates, so the flight control agency. All those who impose some sort of compensation on themselves on the state monopoly, they charge them fat and high prices, and money control has no budget, no finance minister, no Prime Minister, no this assembly. There may be power and control of individuals from parties, but we all advocate the power of institutions, because it looks like a legal state. The fact that I can't get the information, I have information about the severance payments, but I don't look forward to it. The fact that one of the many accounts is thought to be past the public's insights, I assure you and those who, at the time, thought that the DOP lists could destroy or that there was no evidence of it, or that the agency that was trying to bring down responsibility for much greater and wider illegalities ending with the number of unemployed, the various consultants, because that's the way to draw money was, let it remain there for that process, that we don't burden the public here. Please, we can never make an argument that one agency is doing illegal work, or that a civil servant abuses a position or is in conflict of interest, brings it to the same level as when someone gets an apartment by law and it's a roof over his head, for example, like me, because I live with three children in that apartment and I don't have ten apartments to issue, no extra ones, nor do I deal with any kind of work that's opposed to what I do. So there's a difference when someone has flats on the street, when a state function abuses to set up a job for the godfather, a friend, a consulting agency, this or that, or to launder money, and the difference between a functioner or an employee getting an apartment like thousands of other Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39374	Mrs. Susana Grubjesic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39375	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. I'm not asking you to take my word for it, but I'll read the Privatisation Agency's memo, because you didn't get that document. "Franislav Ciric, street Dr Zoran Djindjic number 117 - Novi Belgrade, Belgrade, 15 April 2010. Dear Members, on your request to the Privatisation Agency on 9 April 2010, which concerns your termination of your employment relationship with the Privatisation Agency, and a statement by MP Jorganka Tabakovic, presented in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we provide you with the following information. First, the right to participate in the competition for the distribution of financial resources to stimulate voluntary termination of work relations, with the payment of the severance payment, which was announced after the decision of the Management Board to adopt a voluntary termination programme at the Privatisation Agency, number 10-2006/09 of 8 May 2009, had all the employees of the Privatisation Agency who were in a working relationship with indefinitely, except for employees who, in the course of calendar 2009 and 2010, had broken the employment relationship after the law because of retirement. According to the above, you had the right to participate in the competition. Secondly, a contractual termination of the employment relationship took place on your personal request, number 00-110/09 from 29 June 2009. At the end of the working relationship, agreement No 13-59/2009 of 30 June 2009, you were familiar with the fact that you will not be paid the severance payment, as under the provisions of the Labour Act, Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia No 24/2005, 61/2005 and 54/09, an employee who ceases working relationship under an agreement with the employer does not exercise the right to pay the severance payment. Three, according to the above mentioned, you have not been paid any severance payment at the end of your working relationship with the Privatisation Agency. Four, at the Privatisation Agency, you were in a working relationship between 2 December 2002 and 31 July 2005, and then between 1 January 2008 and 30 June 2009. With respect, Director Vladislav Cvetkovic. "I am not a lawyer, nor Mr. Ciric, nor Mr. Dinkic, their lawyer's name is Zeljko Ristic, so you will show everything you have in court and prove it, and this is the response of the Privatisation Agency. I'm surprised you didn't see him after all the media published it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39376	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39377	I'm just gonna give another quick answer. I can only say next. In this process, which I hope will be quick, I expect that, according to our people's "search for the mouse, cast out the elephant", the public will have the opportunity to hear that this same agency, which can be trusted by word, in the privatisation prospectuses, has forgotten or rules that it does not know that there are thousands of squares, has broken off contracts when it was not or should have, evaluated certain moments. It is very interesting that Mrs Grubjesic does not mention at any time why 12 pregnant women are left without a job, only to justify the fact that the man who was sitting and had a request for severance payment, and then someone said it should not be done, as Mr Dinkic also said here, gave up. But since that money is paid, we're going to have a chance to prove it in court, and I really don't want to burden the rest of us with that. Mr. Vladislav Cvetkovic, you might be able to tell the public what private relations he is with Mr. Dinkic. What the people know is what Obrenović said, so we know what Vesna Djindjic was doing, where she is today, and what are the effects of the work of these people, who whose moms, dads and associates he brought in, who he invented the position of coordinator and whether he worked for at all. We will talk about it in court, but I really hope that Mr. Ciric's courage, not to say the order to press charges, will benefit all of us from finding out what was actually done at the Privatisation Agency, because it can't be found out by the Prime Minister before, not even this current, not even the finance minister, or any institution in charge of the public work and the availability of enormous funds. I will no longer answer for this occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39378	Mr. Nikola Novakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39379	Friendly advice, unfortunately, what I'm saying from this place, as a career lawyer is next. After your presentation, don't mention any more immunity without consulting your lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39380	Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39381	Mr. Novakovic, your friendly advice at no time, even if you could have the sound of advice with a small dose, the spice of fear, is not relevant to me. You know, some people get killed, they drop a brick on their heads, some people have a completely banal death, a completely banal exit from the public, I'll be happy to be without a lawyer, without calling for immunity, but by calling on facts to prove who works for, and who works against general interest. I may have other faults, I may be this energetic and noisy, but envy is my side. I don't know what hate means. I have never used that word in my life in front of me or in front of others, but the courage to fight and prove that I am right is something I will surely realize to the end. Believe me, the three children I have in it support me, the party I belong to, but the greatest force is in people who say: what others shouldn't have, you said. If I'm going to pay the price of any kind, it's not important at all, but it's very important that someone dared to give them who was friends at the moment of their power, in the waiting rooms in front of them, while he could provide them with positions that didn't follow him, because he values him, but because he can provide them with a certain kind of "possess", which is some position, he should finally defend himself with arguments, not scaring anyone, but at arguments about what he did with his friends, advisors and associates. I still thank you for your alleged friendly advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39382	Anyone else want a word about the amendment to Article 21? No, I don't. ) The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39383	Very briefly, just to take the opportunity to sort of put an end to this debate. As far as the SRS is concerned, we consider this to be a law and as a solution completely missed, that it will experience the same fate as the law passed eight or nine months ago. The position of the SRS is that politics must almost completely come out of a balanced regional development. This should be based solely on the planning and development documents. The only role and function of the state in this business must be a control function, a function to monitor and control the application of everything defined in the planning and development documents. That's all it makes sense. If you define one concept with a document based on which you can't see where Serbia will be in five or ten years, the document has also experienced a fiasco before its adoption and suffered defeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39384	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We've finished one continent for today's planned work, so I suggest we take a break by 2.30 p.m. By the way, today we'll be working, according to the Rules of Procedure, by 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND FUNDS OF THE LAW ON THE RIGHT OF FREE Actions AND MONEY THAT THE CIVILITIES OF PRIVATION (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Janković, Dragan Stevanović, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Masić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Pošurić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Žalić, Mižarić, Zaljno Žarić, Zaljan Žarić, Zaljović, Vrjan Žirić, Vrjan Žirjan Žirić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Before moving to a search in particular, I remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, dismissed as the untimely amendments of the National MPs of Moma Colaković to Articles 2 and 11. The draft law, and the rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Based on Article 27, just a reminder of the time available. We have a total of 120 amendments to the laws that were under joint review. The following presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, have a lot of time: PUPS, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the SPS-JS, and the ZES parliamentary group. The Progressive Group of Serbia has two minutes and 10 seconds for the authorised representative, and the G17 parliamentary group plus 12 minutes. MP groups have the following time available: PUPS parliamentary group for six minutes, minority parliamentary group 8 minutes and 24 seconds, New Serbia Group for a minute and 40 seconds, MP group LDP for its total time, SPS-JS parliamentary group 18 minutes, MP group Forward Serbia 21 minutes, DSS Group 9 minutes, G17 parliamentary group plus three minutes and 15 seconds, SRS parliamentary group 44 minutes and 30 seconds and ZES Group 80 minutes and 50 seconds. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Dragan Stevanovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first thing I would point to is the illogicalness seen in the explanation of the rejection of this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia is an identical amendment that we submitted to colleague Aleksandra Jankovic and MP group Advanced Serbia – the SNS has given a completely different explanation. However, the essence and reason why we have submitted the amendment, which we ask for the actions of the Action Fund to be entrusted to the Action Fund, is that this bill will give the Action Fund great authority with very little control. The stock fund will have a large property, which is almost 30 billion dinars, and only initial assets. The powers of the Action Fund are also enormous without any control, so with me and most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the fear that you will continue with the tradition of non-transparent manipulation of the assets of enterprises that have not yet been privatised. By definition, the Action Fund is a type of investment fund that invests in different companies' actions, and because of the volatility nature of investment actions in the fund are at increased risk. It is precisely in such a high-risk stock fund that the assets, i.e. the actions of thousands of enterprises, many of which are inequitable and have no chance of finding the buyer, which is the question of how their value will be determined. Even if the state interferes and the state determines the nominal value of the action of the Action Fund is unclear how much will it pay citizens to buy their own shares? Will they pay the nominal value of the shares, which will be determined by the state, or the value achieved on the stock market, which, if trade is at all, is likely, and I'm almost certain, will be significantly lower? Is this an introduction to another scam over the promised thousand euros and to the citizens divided 17 euros? It is also a big question of how many citizens of Serbia will have the opportunity to cash in their actions in the first place, because until they sell all the shares at their disposal, the Action Fund will not have enough money for all citizens who have the right to free action? For all this, I urge you to reconsider in the voting day and accept the SNS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39387	Forty-five seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39388	I have submitted some 28 amendments to this amendment to the amendment and supplementation of the law on the right to free action and cash compensation. The text of each amendment is identical and reads as "expect". Why? The basic reason for the adoption of the previous Law on the right to free action by citizens in the privatisation process is the same as the basic reason for the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right to Free Action. It is a matter of ensuring the rights of citizens to equality, guaranteed by Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In light of the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Action, it has been said that in the meantime, there has been a significant change in socio-economic circumstances caused by the global economic crisis, so that the lack of strategic investors interested in investing in Serbia has led to a decline in the prices that would have been obtained by the sale of public enterprises listed in the law and from whose sales were to provide cash compensation, as well as actions that would have been passed on to citizens without compensation. That is, apparently, the reason why they could not be respected deadlines under the law, as well as the original legal concept. However, even before the world economic crisis, which economic experts, and the creators of the previous law had to predict, since they were well informed about the world economic flows, the legal provisions of the previous law were not respected, and since December 2007, when the law was passed, there has been a constant pro-longing of the laws of defined deadlines and violations of the provisions that the legislator had set for himself. Thus, actions, securities of value, the state has entered into debt by more than 4.8 million under the applicable rules and the law, now it is about five million Serbian citizens, protecting itself from the fact that the Free Share Act does not provide for sanctions unless it is respected. It turned out that the adoption of the previous law was in fact motivated by political reasons, i.e. marketing campaigns during previous elections, rather than by real concern about achieving social balance, as well as by public interest to prevent the implementation of this model from devoting free action, which often characterized free distribution schemes in other transition countries. It is obvious that the problem was not in poor legal provisions, which could be amended and complemented by the new bill, but rather in the non-application of adopted legal provisions, with the subsequent rationalisation that such behaviour of the executive authority is due to the global economic crisis. The amendments and additions to the Law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process will not contribute to the real achievement of citizens' rights to equality, nor to any social balance, so that the introduction of a new institution – a stock fund – only adds to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If this is added to the statement by the Registrar, as well as the prime minister of the government, that there has been a significant reduction in the global economic crisis, there is no reason to amend any previous law on the right to free action. Of course, there are reasons for the legal provisions of the adopted law to be respected, and for those who have violated them to be sanctioned. But I'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39389	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39390	We've kind of grouped the amendments into two groups. One is the one we propose to be on both this and the next law that we will discuss, which is united and in the process of principle debate. So we divided them into two groups. One is a group of those whom we have proposed that certain members be deleted, while another we felt that certain things, which are in this law and are already in it, will be fixed. As far as erasure is concerned, it refers exclusively to the government's intention and intensity to form, or define the Action Fund. We have been constructively acting on those members of the law that comply with the law on bankruptcy and liquidation, which is essentially necessary and is good, but it seems to us that one evil idea is to create a stock fund. We'd like someone here who's in front of the government to give us an answer. Even the one who is authorized on behalf of the government to represent these laws, it seems to me that he is not competent, if it is Mrs. Snezana Markovic. My question for the government's representatives at the beginning is – why did the Anti-Corruption Council call into question the formation of this fund? Which is why the Council on the fight against corruption of the Republic of Serbia believes that such a fund and the definition of such a fund under the law will be only one of the mechanisms for abuse, crime and corruption in privatisation procedures to continue in Serbia. Our discussion, when it comes to the Action Fund, will go that way and we will be really interested that those who have translated this idea into law give us adequate answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39391	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39392	I've already announced that I'm going to have to remind the citizens of what he looked like and this bill on the right to free action and the cash compensation whose changes are now being sought. I don't think there's a Serb who doesn't grab his head when he hears about the free shares and those famous 100 euros on that same crazy head. Now as blonde to me as well, it is clear to most of Serbia that the 1,000-euro story for action was a trick before the last elections. In fact, former director of the Privatisation Agency, Mr. Branko Pavlovic said on 10 December 2009 that citizens could never get 1,000 euros for action, even if public enterprises sold at the best price and there was no economic crisis. Even in such conditions, citizens could get the maximum of 350 to 400 euros on behalf of free shares, but it was realistic that after the sale of all public enterprises, they would receive a total of 200 euros. The value of the actions Dinkic was talking about never existed, Pavlovic believes. To remind us, although at the end of 2007, when the Law on the Right to Free Action was passed, Dinkic said that since 6 January 2010, citizens will receive 1,000 euros out of shares, so that on 8 December 2009, citizens will receive five shares of NIS, a total of 2,500 dinars and 1,700 dinars of cash from the privatisation register as of 6 January 2010. Of course, there is State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy Nebojsa Ciric, who said on 2 January 2010: the distribution of free shares begins on 6 January, when 4.8 million citizens will be able to obtain confirmation in post office that the owners of five NIS shares, the total nominal value of 2,500 dinars, as well as the cash compensation from the privatisation register. A little morgen. To all of this, there's a Minhausin story going on now. Just to adopt amendments to the law on the right to free action in the privatisation process of large public enterprises, so citizens will be able to get free action even before the privatisation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39393	Two minutes. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39394	We have submitted this amendment because it is simply amazing that the best regulation in Europe after a year or two is changed even more Europeanly. Then we come up with a story about how much these 1,000-euro free shares cost. You even managed to devalue the euro. By the logic of things, if you share free shares, then they cost nothing, but the owner of that paper, when he takes them away, can get something. As much as he gets, it depends on many criteria. But we also have this global financial crisis, and it is also a crisis when these experts run the country. As the state was run by these incompetent, uneducated, the state grew, it increased. When these writings came, the state shrunk, it broke apart, there's nothing from it. It's not a year and a half ago, it's a long time ago, but 20 and 30 years maybe, but over the past 10 years, it's been intensely disintegrating. It takes citizens of Serbia to know the real truth. When they came to power in 2001, everything was arranged, everything was drawn, everything was written. The story of free actions, and now Article 2, there are 15 other members who are being introduced through Article 2, a stock fund is being established, two funds are being blended into this fund, to forget a lot of things that happened on January 1st 2001 and so on. It's their obligation to sell EPS, NIS, Nicole Tesla Airport. There's still this fourth one, I forgot what company it was. Since it is a great wealth, a great monopoly, so that it will pass peacefully, so that the tributaries will not be broken, so that the people will not go out into the streets, they will come to their senses, and they will say, "It will be good for you all if it breaks down because you, too, citizens, will work and not work, at the age of 18 and up to get something." You've got a thousand-euro free share, we just don't know what it's worth. Last year you heard it was 1,700 dinars. So, a lie, a fraud. I'd like to keep going a little bit longer. You don't want to be angry, Mrs. Comic. This is our time as a party. Now how do you seriously get into something called a fraud project? We're putting up with some amendments like that, just to remind the citizens what it's all about. So national task number one - we don't need electricity, we need money. What money? Free stock of a thousand euros. How much is it? We don't know how much they cost. We'll hear it, probably. Who's interested in electricity? It was some polling committee, when a year ago the government was being ruled, everyone was trying to be energy ministers, everybody was robbing each other. Why? There's a kajamak, so what can you do? Now you say -- we have to build this stock fund, that it operates as a stock company. Excuse me, please, do we have a fund-and-deal law? We don't. Where do we have this fund's regulation? We have a budget system bill. You don't even apply it. Is this the Katarina Rebrache fund maybe? Have you cleared up the debts and claims of these public enterprises? According to these public companies, they have claims from our bank that are in bankruptcy. Ten more years won't end the bankruptcy of these four banks. What are you talking about? Shall we cooperate with you on this? It doesn't occur to us. But we're just sending you a message -- we'll follow up on everything that's going on, probably Zabel will empty his capacities. What you have two floors underground, make sure it's as good as possible, because some of you have to move there, they didn't want to have to move there. Who's it going to be, judge for yourself. Just so you know, a team from the Privatisation Agency left the Privatisation Agency a long time ago. It's in these very public enterprises, where they appear as privatisation advisors, run sectors for corporate activity, launder the papers, and think someone's so naive they'll forget. No one will forget what's going on. This can't be forgotten. Why? Because someone's in need of something that's social wealth. There are also natural monopolies here, all at ease. Conditions – Euro-Atlantic integration. It's not true. It's to cover up the tracks. That's why there's no discussion on our part that you wanted to drag us into, that we talk about what this member is, what he regulates, why he's legal and why he's not legal. Where's your government representative on this agenda? He's gone. Who did you tell? Minister of Sports, formerly assistant minister of defense, formerly officer of the Norwegian Embassy. You devalue your regulations. Dear citizens, put your finger on the head and ask yourself how much free stock is worth a thousand euros? How much is it? That's how you won some elections in 2008. How? Cheating on the citizens. One 20 years ago, he was selling apartments, a social housing fund for two marks, for 10 marks, for 100 marks to preserve his power. Come on, make some innovation a little more intelligent, not what you've already seen. It sounds nice, people lose their jobs, it sounds nice, don't be surprised if in the next tranche of changes to these regulations, some bright mind comes up with pensions to be lifted, because we're in the second year when there's no pension adjustment. You're all set. Then you say, "We have 126 votes. That's exactly what the people want what you do." What Alexandra said, a little morgen.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39395	Five minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Antic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39396	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment we have tabled concerns the Agency for Privatisation and the government's intention to carry out these work on the stock fund by the Privatisation Agency. First of all, I think that as MPs, we should get one explanation, which is why the stock fund is being set up, and the Action Fund is abolishing, if it is mainly a good part of that job, very similar jobs, since the start of the privatisation process. It is simply by one law that everything that has happened around the Action Fund is abolished, responsibility is transferred to the Privatisation Agency and, unfortunately, through this law, and through the next law that touches the Privatisation Agency we must also discuss the effects of privatisation. The government rarely gives us the opportunity to combine this one process, which is the most important process in the complete transition that we have entered since 2000, in this way and in such a short time, by bringing together something that is extremely incorrect, means important topics, such as local development, such as privatisation, such as the establishment of an action fund, which should be available to companies whose value is close to 30 billion euros, is estimated at least to that extent, means that all of this is summed up in one afternoon's debate and that citizens in fact do not get a real picture of what the effects of the current policy in privatisation are and what the government is actually planning for this action fund. It seems to me that there are too many policies here, that the Privatisation Agency in the present privatisation process has not fully justified its role, that it has many irregularities. Since the privatisation process itself, when contracts have been concluded, and above all control of the execution of these contracts, that we have come to the situation that the property that has been acquired for decades behind us is easily inaccessible and that today we have over 500 companies where the privatisation contract has been broken. Or less than 500, they will certainly be much more because these days and these months are increasingly being controlled, given that the economic situation has done its part and that many of those companies that are privatised in the meantime will not be able to meet their obligations, primarily through the payment of the war investments. And by the way, the question is whether or not they're being controlled at all, that I'm not talking about social programs, that's just a matter of disaster, means that once a mild control agency that wasn't supposed to belong to it, was supposed to belong to an independent body, but what you're going to do is live in a country where 126 MPs can do anything, even if they're in the pubs of what generations have been behind them. It means that once a very bad control brings this privatisation process to absurdity. If you compare the number of jobs in companies privatised before the start of privatisation and how many workers remain in these companies today, you will see how disastrous this privatisation has been carried out. Having some revenue in the budget, we spent the way we spent on import goods. Neither did the citizens had any, except they had an illusion that they might live better than they did in 2000, and the price of these illusions is now going to pay, for God's sakes, both in the years and decades ahead. It and such a Privatisation Agency are given the right to have these actions and these companies that are extremely valuable, extremely important and that should not in any event be subject to any political trade or fall under any political future campaign in some future elections, and I think that through the text of the law, this intention can also be recognised. It is the most valuable thing left for the citizens of Serbia, and it certainly should not be entrusted to the Privatisation Agency because it has not earned it by its work so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39397	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 3rd Amendment in the same text were submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? National MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39398	This is gonna be a little interrupted, but good. What is important is that according to Mladje's honorary Tito's pioneering words this year, the citizens received another promise, which is that, apart from NIS's actions, they will receive the actions "Telecoma", the "Nikola Tesla" airport, as well as the united actions of the Action Fund, and next 2011, they will receive the actions of the EPS, which will complete the sharing of free actions in Serbia. Just to remind you, the 2007 Law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process was a dominant social function, as a public interest to prevent the implementation of this model from achieving free action. The essential function of this law was to establish a social balance between persons who were entitled to free action under the previous applicable law and those to which the division relates to the provisions of this law. But since the state was well protected by the law on free division of action not to provide for sanctions if it is not respected, then created a crisis and moved the deadlines for the distribution of free actions, and then found rationalisation in the global economic crisis, five million Serbian citizens remained deprived. The owner who threatens the interests of the citizens of Serbia is the government, the same one that should protect them and its exhibit, Mladjan Dinkic, who never went out to the public and said -- sorry, we did everything wrong, we will try to damage you. It is the same man who has the following ventures in professional biography: in 2002 "Beobank", "Belgrade Bank", "Jugobank" and "Investbank", closed four major banks, and that was justified by the opening of the "National Savings Bank". So, of course, he cheated on Serbian citizens because they thought it was a state bank, as soon as it was named "National Savings Centre", so that it would soon change its nationality. Officially, it only changed the nation when the owner of most 59% of the bank's shares became Greece's "EFG National Bank". Continuing in the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39399	Time. Mrs. Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39400	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, by amendment we propose to delete Article 3 and it stems from our position that we cannot support the formation of such an established action fund, which is institutionally linked to the Privatisation Agency. The Agency will perform the tasks of the fund on behalf of and for the account of the fund. The fund will control the agency's work. The Agency will, on the other hand, conduct an internal audit of the fund. Will control be adequate then? The fund will have large assets in the form of non-financial assets, will have great powers, such as the Council can decide on the sale of actions outside the market, and will not have adequate control. When it comes to the decision to trade shares outside the securities market of value, the amendments to the Agency's Act states that the advice makes that decision if it is estimated to be the most favourable, while in the proposal to amend and supplement the law on the right to free action, that part has been left out. It is then concluded that the Fund's advice will make the decision at personal discretion. The actions will actually be managed by the Privatisation Agency, which is constantly exposed to fierce criticism of poorly implemented privatisation, in certain cases with elements of crime and corruption. The agency will start with the actions of the most valuable state-owned companies, then utility companies, sports companies, etc. The question arises – will it be based on previous experience on the privatisation process of enterprises that are not privatised to have non-transparents? Also, another concern arises about some of the government's moves, which is the conclusion that some of the decisions the government makes are contradictory. As the main reason for the establishment of a stock fund, i.e. amending two laws, the law on free shares and the Privatisation Agency, it is said that due to the economic crisis and the lack of strategic investors interested in investing in Serbia, there has been a decline in the prices to be obtained by selling public enterprises, from which the sale was to ensure monetary compensation and actions for citizens. These are the claims made by the legislator. Then why is the same government, which makes the above claims, deciding to sell Telecom, while claims are, once again, the decline in prices that would be obtained by selling public enterprises? Nevertheless, the government has given up good business businesses for short-term goals rather than restructure and improve the business of loss-making companies. To make it clear again, the SRS is against the sale of Telecom and also against the proposed law. For the SRS in this way, the established stock fund is unacceptable. There is a danger, I repeat, that actions will be managed in a non-transparent way, that the securities market will be bypassed and that no one will be held accountable because of possible poor estimates.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39401	National MP Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39402	Here, only the public does, I absolutely understand when those who didn't vote for the Free Action Act talk and now against him, the current former radicals, but I really don't understand how you New Serbia can talk against the law when you voted for him? Why don't you explain it to your voters and say, "We voted then?" Dinkic was good to us. We liked the idea of free action, but since we've been out of power for almost two years, we don't like anything about it. You voted for the Free Action Act. Now you're pushing yourself. Why do you do that, explain as creatively as you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39403	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39404	Mrs Grubjesic, you either have problems listening to what is said in general or something else, because what I said exactly – yes, New Serbia voted for the Free Action Act. This is no problem, but the idea of adopting the Law on Free Action was to achieve social balance and to achieve above all a dominant social function. You came later, when you were called by fellow MPs, to defend Minister Dinkic again. So, yes, we've always been to establish a social balance, to fulfill a social function that would not be worth free action. That, for your information, was New Serbia's position. We were never for your minister because he cheated five million Serbian citizens most brutally and violated all the provisions of the law on the right to free action. He's made a new law. Now he asks that, having failed to comply with the deadlines that he himself had foreseen, they are making changes and supplementing the law on the right to free action and so on. The only thing that doesn't occur to your boss is to leave power when it's time. In that name, I'll read your boss' statement, which says this, in an interview a journalist asks him – do you feel like people don't understand you? Dinkic says, "I do, but I comfort myself that others didn't understand while doing their job or for life. They didn't understand Zoran Djindjic either. Throughout history, people have not understood those who have seen beyond their contemporaries. Some of them were burned at the stake to become heroes afterwards." Modestly, your president compares himself to Djindjic. It's a good thing it's not with Tesla, Da Vinci or with the prophets. To the next question – is that why you think to leave politics? He says, "Several times I thought of such thoughts, but hold me in spite, spite and lyrics of my favorite music author Milan Mladenovic – because when it's over for me, it's just begun." It's a good sentence, it stands for the opposition to Serbia, and you, Mrs Grubjesic, as well as yours, are the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39405	I would really like to ask that we address each other in accordance with the desire for Parliament to function at the highest possible level. It's probably the wish of both our citizens and all of us. The word can be received either by Mr. Zoran Krasic or Mrs. Marina Toman, one of you. You two picked up the line. Here you go, Mrs. Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39406	To be clear, the SRS isn't against the free sale of shares, but it's against such a set-up stock fund that will have great powers and no control.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39407	The 4th amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Jankovic
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39408	I really can't stop listing these ventures to this president of that encrypted party. The other great undertaking of this gentleman refers to the rejection of the best investors in leading projects such as the Horgos-Požega Autopute, the privatisation of JAT, RTB "Bora" and the energy agreement with Russia. The third, a maestral venture refers to all these promises - the elimination of interest on savings for the purchase of an apartment, the reduction of income tax on employers who employ new workers, full personal income for women on maternity leave. In Smederev, on 26 April 2008, he pledged that if the elections were won by the list For European Serbia, he would provide at least 30,000 dinars for all pregnant women and the full salary for those pregnant women who received more than average. As the promise has been fulfilled, it is seen from the recent division of layoffs, even to pregnant women in the ninth month and mothers on maternity leave, and to those employed by the Privatisation Agency, which is in the power of Dinkic's ministry. On March 27th, we had the opportunity to read what Dinkic's contribution to the white plague was, since he decided to solve the problem of extra employees through the stomach of those women who want to get involved in successful reforms in line with motherhood. More interestingly, after the first wave of redundancies of the Privatisation Agency, the subsequent wave of employment followed 30 people. But when a MP, such as Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, warns of the presence of nepotism, then he gets threats and an epithet of being a dog, or in some more free translation to lie like a dog. It is a direct insult to dogs, animals at all, and a direct cause for the spread of animosity among citizens who are so electric. Is that part of the promise to set up a special fund for the development of women's entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39409	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4, a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39410	In October 2006, Dinkic again rejected the possibility of reregistering a vehicle with Montenegrin plates, proposed by then-Infrastructure Minister and New Serbia President Velimir Ilic, saying it would be a violation of the Constitution and law. Out of the question of reregistering those vehicles -- Dinkic stressed and voiced doubts about public calculations that there are currently around 400,000 of these vehicles in Serbia. Epilog -- in April 2009, Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic said that from re-registering a vehicle with Montenegrin plates driving citizens are expected from 80m to 100m euros. Furthermore, the Ministry of Economy in March 2009 violated the Constitution and the laws by sending a recommendation that courts halt proceedings in working disputes, and the ministry of justice should not have passed the recommendation to the Supreme Court. The College of the Supreme Court then concluded that the Ministry of Economy's recommendation is anti-constitutional and contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, so the judges will not act accordingly. It was all funny, though, in this brochure "The Moment of Truth of Mladjan Dinkic", which I wanted, shared for months of New Serbia's youth, to share this with Minister Dinkic or someone from the ministry, but I see that they do not like to visit the Assembly because they are questioned by some unpleasant questions, so I will watch that I present this to Mrs Grubjesic, who in time refused to read the brochure. It is quite obvious that Mr Dinkic, after the last turns out, does not have the courage to come to this assembly, but it is also clear that despite the animosity he has towards the opposition MPs, he will have to appear here to discuss responsibility for the disastrous economic situation in the country, for the insults of the SNS MPs spoken.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39411	On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39412	Before I begin to explain the amendment, just to say that this law also applies to the actions of JP "EPS", thank God, it has not been sold yet, they intend to sell it, Telecom Serbia, prepare to sell it to Nicola Tesla Airport, and prepare to sell it to the NIS. Article 5 changes something in the existing Article 13. The amendment requires that the law that began to apply be respected. What's this about? Under the existing law, this and the Privatisation Act, in addition to the Privatization Register, there is also an Action Fund. It ends all of this with your free shares that we don't know how much they cost, and you say they're worth a thousand euros. You're putting in the stock fund now, so I don't harass the audience with it, because it's just a prank. Under the existing law, the Action Fund was obliged to sell and sell until 31 December 2008. This is April 2010. You've mixed up a little calendar. If some shares are transferred to the Privatisation Register, the Action Fund is obliged to sell them in the next six months. By some logic of things, if you'd gone, if this global financial crisis hadn't come along, you'd have broken up all these public enterprises that I've talked about and shut up every citizen who'd be an accomplice to the sale of social wealth. Now I'm going to remind you of something, 17, 18, 19 years ago, what I did in Nis. I attacked one of the directors that he was a big thief and a criminal, and in front of his employees, there were several hundred workers. People just shriveled their shoulders and listened to what I was saying. A few nods as a sign of approval. Nobody said I was lying. When the stands are over, I ask people, so do you know that he steals? They say this: We know he stealth, but as long as he stealeth a creature for us. It's a bit of a logistical change in system now, but the matrix is the same. You're counting on the sale and destruction of social wealth to prevent people's insurrection by beating everyone up for free action, so let him think about how much it's going to be, and that way everyone will become an accomplice to what's going on. You're not citizens of accomplices, no matter how easy you are, you're much more of a con man. Please, don't debate today and criticize today to bring down only one party and one minister, I avoid saying that. These governments have been guilty since 2001, which have agreed to sell out everything in this country for a dictatorship from the West. The first to be held was Miroljub Labus in 2001, when an annex was delivered during the ratification of one of the strong agreements with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Error at the time to Federal MP Filip Stojanovic, on which exactly a list of what everything must be sold and in what deadlines, what must be done, why must the price be raised by medicines, what must be sold, how many businesses. They used to make a list of 400 companies. You know why Sartide had to leave like that. You know why those banks were shut down. Remember, for another ten years, there will be no solution to the active and passive banks in bankruptcy and liquidation. You have these experts working there. There will also be a question of insurance for the Danube, Mercedes Benca, all of this will come – documentation exists, don't worry. All the documentation exists and you know who took part. We're just having a little trouble getting this people's trust to clear these things up, but believe me, it's gonna be our turn. They usually don't understand us, so after a few months they say, "Look, those radicals were right again." We're always right. We're always right. Since you've come under that law to settle, we've amended you on December 31st, 2010, to draw your attention to that law "European" as you say, and you say it's not European, and now this is new European -- that's your prank, that's your prank. That is why We raise the voice, that We may warn the people. We're not very happy when you're shooting, and by yesterday you've been in a nice pub, in a coalition community you had a demonstration of coalition capacity, like that battery with 18 volts, watts, amperas, etc. Just push it like that, but it matures the awareness of the citizens. They realize why they are getting harder and harder every day, and every day it will be harder and harder for them. They're aware of that and they know where it's going. They know where this Euro-Atlantic road is located – a non-critical observation of everything required. Someone once was angry because of the amendment to the Law on Confirmation of the Association Agreement, so you reminded him nicely – the European way and the protection of Serbia cannot. The European path – means the destruction of Serbia. Every destruction of Serbia means it will be harder and harder for citizens. It's our job to warn them, to distract them. We don't share artificial fertilizer in campaigns, we don't share plasma televisions, we don't share blocks. You share it freely, let the people grab it, it doesn't matter. Just remember, the people have been quieted down, over-gaining. Presabers, there is no answer to the question – how much are they worth or how much are these free shares of 1,000 euros?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39413	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, to whom I give my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39414	Regardless of the animosity of the resolution minister towards this parliament, he will have the opportunity for his moment of truth when the debate is launched, as DSS, New Serbia and SNS have already requested the launch of a debate on Mr Dinkic's responsibility – for the country's tragic economic situation, the deployment of Serbia under the proposed Regionalisation Act. Then, of course, we will have the opportunity to raise the question of the responsibility of Minister Dinkic for abuse of his official position and material benefit to himself and the coalition in which he participated. Dinkic has made public promises to the citizens that he will receive free shares to benefit himself and others – by cheating on nearly five million people. The fraud also damaged the state - which hired people in the post office, printed forms, processed requests, checked, sent notifications to people about whether they met the conditions. So how much are the stamps worth to five million people? Dinkic could also be charged with criminal charges, as he committed the crime of false promises and fraud, including abuse of his official position, as he made promises not as an ordinary citizen, but as a minister of economics and regional development. According to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 359(3) — a person who abuses the official position and provides himself or another property benefit exceeding a million and a half dinars — will be sentenced by a minimum of two to 12 years. By irresponsible economic policy, this government, with Dinkic as a brilliant financial expert, slowly, but surely leads the country towards a debt crisis and a serious threat to the country's foreign liquidity. Serbia today owes nearly $6.4m on a daily basis, and at the end of each hour, it is more in charge of about $200,000.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39415	The 6th Amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39416	To repeat the question from the beginning of this debate – is the government's authorised representative willing to give us an answer why the Anti-Corruption Council has disputed the formation of the Action Fund? Why does the Anti-Corruption Council feel that this Fund will be in place for further abuse of the privatisation process, which has not been brought to an end in Serbia? Since the government has this mood to talk to representatives in parliament, there is nothing different for us than to treat it reciprocally. This law, which we are against in the part where he defines the formation of the Action Fund, is like an experiment that the proposer of this law wants to carry out. It seems to me that we mentioned it somehow in the principle debate and it seems to us that Mr Dinkić would – to try out as a portfolio manager. We told him in principle – that's nice. He used to be named manager of the year, and now, I suppose, that his calling or his laureate trys and in practice. It would be appropriate, however, to build his private investment fund, and we told him even then what was enough for him, so let him deal with – managing, let him sell shares, let him trade shares on the RS market. You see, he went one step further. They've come to realize that they're building a closed investment fund -- it's going to look like this stock fund, a fund that's going to have about 30 billion assets. As the manager-in-chief, however, Mr Dinkic did not show up, but realized he was going to create a council that would have four members and a president and they would absolutely manage the fund. Imagine, there's going to be all the action, and public enterprises, but also those companies that haven't been privatized so far, enterprises that so far no one's ever wanted to buy, or companies that are here on this list, gentlemen from the Ministry. The emissary shows the list. ) This is a list of broken privatisations you have failed in Serbia, not to mention those you have not broken up, which are carried out in Serbia in the way they are conducted. Imagine, today in Serbia, it has become an ongoing issue -- how do you comment on the government's commitment to trust broken state or social enterprises with tycoons or successful businessmen, to bring them into order? Imagine, if there is no better evidence for Serbia, that they have defined this government as well as the rich and economic policy and economic criteria that are in force today in Serbia. Instead of forcing the state of Serbia to settle its obligations to workers, to settle its obligations to suppliers, to settle their obligations to those who have fired them, to respect the privatisation contracts that I have now pointed out to you, the government will do nothing less than trust them with state-owned enterprises to manage them, to bring them out of a bad situation. This concept of the Action Fund is offered to us by those who staged a circus with free New Year's Eve shares. Imagine, now those same people, who were expecting their 1,000 euros to receive 1,700 dinars in the ranks, are due to go to an organised capital market. Now you're going to get one man who lives in the country, and by the circumstances, you're going to have the right to offer to trade in shares on the market – imagine what kind of government service? Looking back on the market and the financial market in Serbia – the worst is in the region, and I will not take Europe into account. Just analyze the financial markets of the RS and the Republic of Croatia, and they will faint. Calculate how much money today the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are engaged in funds dealing with trade, which are shares, which are securities of value, and how much is it in Croatia? How much money is in savings today in Serbia and how much in the organised capital market? How much money per capita today do you have on the organised capital market, say, in Serbia, and how much in Croatia? How much does this relationship have to do with the gross domestic product? It is now offered to Serbian citizens a stock fund that will cover all actions, and what is worth in a commercial sense, and what is not worth, so those who will possess and win those actions will not actually know whose actions they have, which is absolutely contrary to the basic principles of functioning of institutions on the financial market. You all shut up, and the government sends the Minister of Sports and Youth to defend the law on the stock fund and you expect a serious debate, you expect serious law and you expect serious effects under this law. It's ironic, it's absurd, and you don't deserve any serious debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39417	Members of the 7th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milorad Buh. Mrs. Jankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39418	The first and basic reason why this bill is not good is precisely the idea of forming an action fund advice and the idea that all actions that have been transferred to the Action Fund will be transferred to a stock fund that will join the Privatisation Agency, so that the revenues from privatisation of minority packages do not go into the budget, as so far, but to citizens, because the establishment of a stock fund means that the rightholders of free action actually do not get actions that they can own, but rather actions of the stock fund. Being a shareholder means having the right to manage and control the work of an organization whose shareholder you are, which is absolutely disabled by these changes and additions, but therefore giving this fund the possibility of unlimited management of huge assets that will be merged into the fund without any control. This stock fund will not have management bodies or employees, while its portfolio will be managed by the Privatisation Agency, which opens up new opportunities for manipulation and corruption, and we are witnessing the consequences of your historic privatisations anyway. The initial assets of the fund consist of shares and shares from the Privatization Register, 78 packages of nominal value shares, 4.7 billion dinars and six shares of book value, 5.4 million dinars. Also, shares and shares were owned by the Action Fund, which is 1,500 shares, nominal values of around 24 billion dinars. This is just data that needs to create an asset that this proposed fund will have without any control. When the story of action money began, it was said first that we were waiting for 100 euros of all the companies sold at that time in the Privatization Fund. When it turns out that for free action... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39419	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Zoran Antic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the Serbian Progressive Party is a much better previous solution that we had in the previous law, because this member refers to the distribution of dividends from actions that may not be so large, but we think it is much more moral and honest that they belong to the Republic Pension and Social Insurance Fund, because if we are to be honest, the good part of this property we sell is part of some past work experience of our fathers. This solution that you had in law, which you are now trying to change and to transfer those assets from dividends to the actual stock fund, is much worse for us. It's kind of immoral. It may increase the economic and political power of some political party, some institutions, but it is not in the spirit of solidarity and it is not appropriate when it comes to our fathers and pensioners. I would like a few more arguments just to remind you that thanks to gross domestic product very little growth in our country, the amount of funds compared to gross domestic product is increasing. In 2009, it was close to 19%. Budget transfers are also increasing year by year, so we've come into a situation that nearly 36% of the budget's expenditure goes to the pension fund. Therefore, any reduction in income for that fund is unacceptable for us and we believe that you have made a serious mistake here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39421	The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Sreto Peric. Mrs. Jankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39422	When it turned out that nearly five million citizens had applied for free actions, the 100 euros were reduced to 50 euros and this was due to be paid last year, but the payment was stopped because of the crisis, which exists at the time, the hour did not exist, some wandering crisis, depending on the situation and on which one of the current owners gave a statement, and now the 50 euros in some magical way turned into 1,700 dinars. Those promised thousands of euros should be paid when we sell these five NIS shares that have a nominal value of 500 dinars per share and when we sell more EPS shares, Galenika, JAT, which we haven't even received, we'll get 50 euros from other non-sold enterprises. When that camera is collected, I guess we'll have some church to pay for the backlogs from the month to month the increased electricity bill, the utility bill, the phone, property taxes, hairdryer and iron taxes, on inhaled air by cubicity, because otherwise, they'll knock on our doors professional debt seekers that the state has formed this year, to make sure the citizens pay their debts more securely. As this stock fund is established as a closed stock company, it must be subject to regulations governing the position of companies and it is quite clear that it is actually contrary to the Business Society Act. In fact, shareholders of the stock fund are, I said, about five million citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have achieved this right in accordance with the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. So there are many more than 100, as prescribed by the Business Society Act. Under the veil lex specialis law is founded actually... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39423	Thank you. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Free share law. True, I have little use for a coloquial name, one that is known to Serbian citizens, but given that this law on behalf of the government is the Minister of Sports, so that I do not completely miss out on the subject, I will use several sports terms or jargons. This law represents in its basic proposal dribble. Who's dribbling? Dribbled citizens of Serbia and about five million people. We know that the Minister of Economy and Regional Development likes to compete and seems to have seen results when it comes to skiing. He's also trying to challenge the president of the DS, but this one, in order not to be insinuated, insists on rejecting that competitive discipline. When this one promises 200,000 jobs, then this one promises free action and that's about there somewhere on the same level. What counterpart Krasic said, it is not possible that in this government only one man is responsible for the ever worse standard of Serbian citizens. Who's responsible here? The whole government is responsible. We were able to expect everything in the amendments and additions to this law, just not what was scheduled. We could have expected that this law would cover those who, at the moment of entry into force of this law, were not, for example, full-time, and fulfil all other conditions provided for by this basic law. This law may not be the best, but it must have been the most desirable at one point, which is at the end of 2007, right about somewhere in the presidential election night, when a presidential campaign of one of Serbia's presidents was to be stepped up a little. Now some fluid looks. It is realistic to expect that this law will experience another change just before the next election. Obviously, those who tried to twist with a million signatures failed to do so, and not that they failed because this government didn't deserve to be moved, but because their intention in this business wasn't sincere enough or they weren't enough frames, because those fines they also used, they fell only once, as a football player, can once through the legs, next time a defense player keeps his goal a little bit better. Who has to protect our country here? Serbian citizens led by the SRS. We know that this is the case, and we are opposed to citizen fraud, from which the minister from this or some other government came. Maybe free action is good, but they're a little worth it. Someone has asked if anyone in Serbia today is aware of the value of a thousand-euro free action? It may be the most difficult today to find the right answer or good answer to that question. The fund provided for by this law, as a substitute for the Action Fund, will not entail new employment, but has a president and four members. Who's gonna pick them? They'll be elected by the government. On whose suggestion? At the proposal of the Minister for Economics and Regional Development. Imagine, he will determine the height of their compensation. Is there anything better for the members of that fund and its president? There isn't. Who are they going to work for? To your employer. Who's their employer? It's quite familiar with the whole story I'm talking about, and it's about the explanation of this amendment. We expected a change of the Privatisation Act, but in another way, although it is already too late. You spoke today and we are talking about the regional development of the Republic of Serbia. If anyone in this government had any serious intention of doing so, then the Privatisation Act would otherwise regulate the separation of local self-government from privatized companies. Now it's mostly the ones that nobody wants or public enterprises that you're still looking for a recipe to be given to the least deserved, or to buy them, for as little money as possible. The Privatisation Act was meant to regulate this in a different way. You have brought into a situation, the truth is a small number of honest customers in Serbia, who today, when it is mentioned that someone bought a state or social enterprise, immediately associates with someone who is not fair, and certainly not, at least a small number of honest and honest people appeared as buyers of state or social enterprises. You allowed one owner to own over 50, maybe more companies. That's not at all controversial, but the money to buy these companies had to be controlled by those who sold these companies. Why would they do that when it personally left a great opportunity to earn precisely those who were all involved in privatisation? Now it is, of course, the highest Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. When this 14-20 government rules, it doesn't matter how many coalition partners, you haven't made an agreement that everyone has to give up something, but you insist that everyone spends what he imagined and what he promised in the pre-election programme, and the price is paid by the citizens of Serbia. Gentlemen, and if it's from you, it's a lot. Take care of those who chose you, so next time you have to go to the polls again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39425	Mr. Nikolic, you only have the right to participate on the basis of a replica today. Just explain the reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39426	If you followed closely what the predecessor said, you would realize that the SNS was injured and that it was said very negatively, that is, about the campaign to collect a million signatures, in which three political parties participated, but the initiator was SNS. If you don't think I have the right to a replica, I don't have it, but then that means you won't allow the protection of the party based on an insult spoken directly from the pay phone. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39427	You have the right to a replica. Here you go. In a rather cultured way, the MP spoke, but here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39428	You know, the hardest insults can be spoken in a rather cultivative way and the replica is not given in the way something is said...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39429	Don't argue with me. You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39430	So the SNS has organised an action to collect a million signatures from citizens seeking new early parliamentary elections. New Serbia participated, the action was supported by the DSS, a million and 100,000 signatures were submitted to the Prime Minister. I understand when representatives of the ruling parties say it was not sincere, that they do not appreciate a million signatures, that it would take seven or eight million signatures to make an extraordinary parliamentary election, but it really makes no sense not to explain why one opposition party is against the extraordinary parliamentary elections and why it is on the same line of defence of the Serbian government from the extraordinary parliamentary elections along with the ruling parties. So our action was completely honest. We rocked the ruling coalition. Only you laugh, both of you, unfortunately for your own sake, we will have extraordinary choices in which both of you will have the opportunity to show your strength. To those of you who can't win a censorship anywhere in Serbia, I say you don't play with millions of citizens who have given their signature, identifying themselves by phone number, both address and home number. So, what's now for you a thinking noun, it shouldn't be a joke, even if you've become small.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39431	Mr. Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, Mr. Sreto Peric did not insult anyone, and in his chosen words he explained the amendment he submitted to this bill. The essence of his presentation and the essence of the SRS' stance is that we do not believe that changes in Serbia can bring people like Goran Knezevic, we cannot believe that changes in Serbia can be brought by people who were associates of Miroljub Labus until yesterday. If you followed the show to B 92 yesterday, Mr. Nikolic's sensational reinforcement is allegedly some top-notch lawyer who signed something for G 17 plus, but doesn't know if it's an access card or some form, meanwhile, joined the DS, and got into a fight with DS, so he moved to SNS. So we as a party don't believe that such people can bring change to Serbia. These aren't changes, they're the same people that the people who organized the signature collection up to two or three years ago said were the biggest criminals in the world. That two years ago you asked Mr. Nikolic what he thought of Goran Knezevic – all the worst; what he thought of his new reinforcements in the party – all the worst. It is now suddenly the people who will bring change to Serbia. The SRS doesn't believe that. As far as the signature is concerned, the action is completely legitimate. The other thing is whether all the signatures were collected in a valid way, because there are serious indications that there were counterfeiting signatures. Whether or not it was true, we do not want to go into it, but we have the right to be able to change in Serbia cannot bring in people who have already been in power and who are and how responsible for the situation in which Serbia is, so now they are trying to avoid the responsibility of joining foreigners who count on tomorrow or the day after tomorrow to participate in the exercise of state power. So we're against it. As for these other political parties who participated directly or indirectly in the collection of signatures, the fact is that Mr Vojislav Kostunica is not very busy painting with the organizers of this major action. That's saying something, but we're not getting involved in the Democratic Party of Serbia's policy right now. We just have the right to doubt that the fundamental changes in Serbia can bring people who have the same attitude as people who allegedly want to change power. I'm sorry, but I don't see any difference between the Serbian Progressive Party and the Democratic Party. What is this change of government in Serbia, if the leader of the party that organises the signing, says – is a good policy, Boris Tadic, but is not being implemented until the end? Well, that means he'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39433	Time. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39434	If you had asked Mr. Martinovic to evaluate Tomislav Nikolic to you two years ago, he would have said he was probably the best politician and the smartest man in Serbia after Vojislav Seselj, and the one you say Serbia is waiting for him tends to say that only a fool does not change. So, you who are immutable, see what your president says about you. As far as the Serbian Progressive Party is concerned, we are making progress thanks to you. Our work and your work directly produce the results of the Serbian Progressive Party. Since we don't think we're gonna stop working, and you want us to stop making progress, it would be ideal for you to stop working. So all things in Serbia would be in place. It's not your fault. I heard from you the other day that Serbia wants to join the European Union, but with Kosovo in its composition, and from one of your MPs today that Serbia does not want to join the European Union at all. Only four rows share you in that room, and one and the other speak for the same party and speak for the same ideology. As far as we're concerned, you're no longer our target. You have removed yourself from political life, reduced the power of the opposition, brought it down to three political parties, and now you try to fight us, and our three parties, to keep the "yellow" in power, as your president said he would help the black devil just so that the Serbian Progressive Party would not be in power. As in political terms, there is no help for you, so there is no "yellow," and that is democracy. Now we're gonna beat them, next time they might beat us, and that's your Serbian future. Nothing is meant to happen, and I repeat, the words of the one you say Serbia is waiting for, so then Serbia will move forward, only the fool doesn't change.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39435	And when you put up quotes, please don't use the term "stupid." Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39436	Here, of course, I won't use the dictionary of a man who thinks he has the deed to be normal and decent and who allegedly is fighting for normal and decent Serbia. I don't really know what Mr Tomislav Nikolic is talking about. These days I was in Arangelovac, as well as my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party, and I saw approximately the technology of winning the party's votes. If you're telling me that there are differences in how to run a campaign between the party Tomislav Nikolic and the Democratic Party, which he allegedly wants at all costs to bring down from power, I would be grateful for that new experience and new knowledge. If voices are bought by giving artificial fertilizer, flour, handing out money, then sorry, it's not democracy and it's not the European Union. It is done by the Serbian Progressive Party in Arangelovac, as it did yesterday in Vrbas, Odzaci and Malta in all municipalities where local elections were held. So, the exact same technology conducted by the Democratic Party, which the party allegedly wants to replace and bring changes to Serbia. The essence of the whole story, dear citizens, voted for the Serbian Progressive Party or voted for the Democratic Party, voted for the same policy. If you want fundamental changes in Serbia, then vote for those who have not changed their policies, who have remained in their politics and when it is difficult, and when one part of the citizens does not understand that policy, but that policy is deeply true and that policy is deeply in the interests of Serbian citizens. I don't know how Serbian citizens will vote tomorrow. They may vote for SNS to be the ruling party. The Serbian citizens' decision and we in the SRS will accept it. The will of the citizens is sacred, but this is about the power of the parties that have the same policy. It doesn't matter if Serbia is being run by this party or that party. We want to prevent Serbia from experiencing a disaster, a disaster. We want Serbia to be a developed, advanced, democratic state. Are we for the EU? Mr. Nikolic, you don't seem to have an outstanding political hearing. Mr Zoran Krasic made it clear that in this EU relationship with Serbia, where implicitly and explicitly KIM accounts as part of territory outside the Republic of Serbia, now insisting on EU entry is not good, because the EU does not treat us as it has treated Slovenia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania, all other countries that have joined the EU since 2004. The SRS clearly says that if we are to join the EU under the same principles that all these countries have entered, if you do not insist that we give up KIM today, tomorrow Vojvodina, then the SRS considers it a legitimate question whether Serbia should join the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39437	Time. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39438	Dear President, I appeal to Article 1, the right to reply, at the same time calling for us to return to what is the topic of the agenda. I don't think this is the place or the time to happen. I just want to say that it can't even be in magnifying the identification of two policies in relation to DS policy, which is quite clear, from the first day when DS was founded, which is a modern, European, integrated democratic state, in what represents the party that Mr Martinovic tried to programify with DS we don't see any of these values. On the contrary, everything that has been done in the past, everything that is done today, is very often opposed to the basic values that DS advocated, because I should only remind that the DS party that has really committed itself to fighting organised crime in the government, which makes one of the partners, and that the head of the party that the programme is trying to make comparison with DS has declared that they will check the files, so if those accused of killing first democratic Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic is convinced that they are not guilty, he will let them go. A serious campaign against the government, against the justice ministry, against the judicial institutions, is now under way just as Serbia declared war on organised crime, an attempt to disabling the bearers of that fight, that sometimes they mark themselves as targets of those against whom the fight is being fought, is unequivocal evidence that these parties not only want to fight organised crime and corruption, but rather do everything to stop it. In that sense, regardless of what you need to make a difference between yourself, what you cannot possibly put as a sign of equality is the values and objectives that DS advocates, with what is a vague policy and, in my opinion, still non-existent, the party's policy until yesterday was part of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39439	Right on the line, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39440	I feel like a man who gets attacked by more people and then whoever gets hit back doesn't have to be careful, seeing as we're here on target and government and opposition. I think that role is right now and best suited to us, since we are the next power. Mrs. Kolundjia, I'm surprised that both you and the gentlemen of the opposition are also representing Mr. Cvian's struggle for an independent judiciary. How do you think you're fighting organised crime, when a man who is completely in the process of everything you've done in judicial reform accuses you of buying judicial functions for thousands of euros? Who are you to convince in Serbia that these judges will end up fighting crime? You, gentlemen of the opposition, a brave man has appeared who has accused the government of destroying the judiciary and you are attacking him. Just help him, so he can be easily executed by those who have turned on him. If you mind SNS policy... (President: Please do not send such qualifications related to the full right of everyone to send a specific message. No one's gonna get away with it, and don't spread out, just misinformation about a sense of fear that can wake up with anyone. )......................................................................................................... I'm just asking you not to take it literally. I didn't mean to take him down physically. I'd say "physically executed," but this is how you attack a man who's raised his voice, who can go to the authorities who ask for his statement whenever you want, who's going to come out and deliver evidence, that's how you stop the fight against bribes, corruption, crime, and you participate in both. Now I can apply to you what we were talking about in that unique party about this so-called. The smart parties we spoke of, my lords, what has now been applied to you – all is well, you are very good, smart, beautiful, only the people will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39441	Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39442	I'll do it again. It is our legitimate right to suspect that people who have been accused by Tomislav Nikolic up to a few years ago of being the greatest criminals, that now they present themselves to us as people who will provide good for our children. The SRS doesn't believe that. We do not trust people here in Serbia's parliament who have claimed that the Statute of Vojvodina is anti-constitutional, separatist and anti-Serb, and then after a month, there is a statement that otherwise the daily "Blic" since 24 December 2009, that SVM has nothing to fear if Mr Nikolic's party comes to power because they do not think they are changing the statutes. We have the right to doubt that such people can bring good to Serbia. If policy changes from today to tomorrow, if we take two completely conflicting positions on such fundamental issues within a month, then the question of the seriousness of such a policy is really being raised, unless the goal of such policy is to come by way of power, whether you are principled or not. But then between this current government and some new future government, which will function on these principles, there is no fundamental difference. We do not believe that people who have changed all possible parties in Serbia can now bring good to that same Serbia. I'm a member of G17 plus today, the day after tomorrow I'm DS, and then SNS, so who knows what kind of party, but you know, I'm always right, I'm an expert, I'm a top lawyer. I don't know if I signed anything for G17 plus, it is something I signed, I don't know if it's an accession, but I'm a great crime and corruption fighter. I'm sorry, we don't believe that. We haven't changed our policy. We believe that our policy is principled, that our policy is in the interest of all Serbian citizens and that our policy can really bring about fundamental changes in Serbia. Not those who were accused by yesterday that criminals, that they had robbed Serbia, can't counsellors Miroljub Labus, Mladjan Dinkic, those who claimed to have had in the safe how many millions ready for the DS campaign, are now suddenly presented as some innocent. We haven't eaten onion, we haven't smelled onion, it doesn't matter what you've done in 10 years, we're brand-new people, and we represent a new policy. It's not any new policy. It is a policy that Serbian citizens feel on their skin from 2000 to today. It doesn't matter whether the policy is conducted by Boris Tadic, Tomislav Nikolic or Aleksandar Martinovic, or any other individual. It must essentially change politics, not its bearers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39443	Mrs. Kolundjia has a word. Please, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39444	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, when Serbia, by all countries fighting organised crime, was declared a leader and fighting in the region, when it declared a decisive war on organised crime, and indeed took measures of unprecedented proportions, when the judicial reform allowed this fight to be fought more effectively and when someone appears and attacks those who are implementing this reform and who are leading it, then the only rational conclusion is that they are actually fighting against judicial reform that will result in the fight against organised crime. All those involved in the service of this fight and such a policy that actually has the sole goal of stopping the fight against organised crime, attacking those who are otherwise the target of organised crime and threatening them most seriously, then it is not a policy, then it is an attempt to stop one process of interest for Serbia, far-reaching importance for Serbia, to stop the process. Which are motives, it will have to give an answer to those who want to stop this fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39445	The 9th Amendment was filed by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who wants the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39446	Under the terms of "ex specialise" this law is established an Action Fund which does not comply with the provisions of the Business Society Act as regards the prescribed number of shareholders of a closed company. The draft law on free division of actions, which stipulates that the Authority of the Action Fund of the Fund Council, which has a president and four members appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Minister, with the President of the Council representing the Action Fund, is contrary to Article 307(1). The company law, which stipulates that the management bodies of the closed stock company are only the director or board of directors, with the chairman of the board of directors representing the closed stock company. I can't break the provisions of the Business Society Act under the rule of "lex specialis." This bill does not even require the Council of the Fund to report as a management body on its work to the shareholders of the Action Fund, nor is the proposed law prescribed to oversee the work of the Stock Fund and the Fund Council. Also, no criminal provisions for abuses in the work of the fund and responsible persons have been prescribed, as members of the Council are not responsible for commercial offences and for violations. The non-response of responsibility for the President of the Council representing the Action Fund and members of the Council is again not in line with the regulations of the Business Society Act. Article 32(1) The company law stipulates that persons representing society have an obligation to carry out their business in a secure manner, with the attention of a good businessman, in a reasonable belief that they act in the best interests of a company and correspond to a company for possible abuses and damages to a company.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39447	Members of the 10th amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milan Skrbic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Jankovic. I'm sorry, I gave my word to Mr. Skrbic. I'll give Mrs. Jankovic my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39448	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39449	I don't know who I am anymore - me or Scrabble. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right of Free Action and the Money Compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process is reportedly working in the interest of citizens, extending the circle of public enterprises, companies with the majority participation of state capital, from which citizens will receive free shares. In order for all of this to be successfully implemented on behalf of and on behalf of citizens, the famous Action Fund is established, which is undoubtedly a new institution, because the government itself is as a proposer in reason – this fund is the institution "sui generis". This is not a classic investment fund within the meaning of the law governing investment funds. His hard work does not correspond to the work of investment funds. It is established to sell shares from the Privatization Register and actions from the Action Fund portfolio, and then from the funds of those actions of other public enterprises listed in the law, provide funds to be able to issue shares of the fund to citizens. Practically all members of this law from 1st to 28th are a maestro play for the creation of a form in a legal system that is not known at all. Its uncertainty status, however, does not correspond to the vast assets and assets given to it, even without clear criteria in the case of assets of enterprises that have not yet been privatised. So how much of the assets of the fund will remain unclear, and the future assets that will enter the fund in the case of unprivatised enterprises are subject to private and secret arrangements for those who are in a position to decide. The new body for the new institution is a council, made up of the president and four members, whom the government proposes who else but Mr. Minhauzen Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39450	Mr. Milan Škrbić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39451	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, you see for themselves, this debate so far has made it clear that on one hand we have certain associations, agencies, even brokers and advisers of small shareholders, that they support such proposals by the resolute minister and government, and you can see exactly which party they belong to. On the other hand, we also have experts who have just recently admitted these mentions, which are also economic experts, stock exchange experts and many people who have been in matter for many years and who do not think about how the government is thinking and the resolution ministry in the draft of this law. In January, February, March, this law was also discussed before it reached the government and discussed the division of free shares, even companies that had not been sold in advance, and no idea what was the value, which was absolutely not good and did not come up with the support of economic and stock exchange experts. They disagree in the assessment that the share of public companies' shares before their privatisation will revive the capital market in Serbia, and then we have the following – while some believe that, when citizens start trading on the market, they will use the right market price and that foreign and institutional investors will show interest, others argue that demand will not be because they will not be known who owns the majority package in these public enterprises. You two, it's us from the SRS, who are absolutely behind this claim and we can't agree with this concept. Here it is proposed, of course, and if this amendment to the Law on the division of free public enterprises actions is adopted, according to the Corruption Council and many other experts, that corruption will grow in the country. If the members of the Anti-Corruption Council say so, that the adoption of this law would have significant consequences, if they add, and we join it, we of the SRS, that is our position and our opinion, privatisation in Serbia would never be completed, nor would it be possible to complete it. This is directly contrary to the principles of the Privatisation Act, which was adopted in 2001, in which the same set was in power, which refers to a quick and fair privatisation in which all will have its share and its share. We claim that the newly formed stock fund, whose establishment is proposed, is actually a hybrid that has the elements of the investment fund, of the stock company and of the state body, but is neither mentioned. Then the question arises – what is it, if it isn't? It seems to us that the stock fund will have actions currently in the portfolio of the Action Fund, the shares contained in the Privatization Register and 15% of the capital from future privatisations. Experts warn that there is no time limit, which no one has talked about today, when they have to sell all these actions, but can be unlimitedly rotated, bought, sold, and, as many say, and added. On the other hand, the state must and may increase the portfolio's share of the stock fund, to add some public enterprises, without ever privatising those funds. This is absolutely contrary to the changes made to the previous Privatisation Act, especially the one from 2001, because privatisation cannot go suddenly and cannot be transparent. I will point out, and later, since I have another amendment, I will continue, that no country that passes through transition is in transition for 20 years, and we simply do not know when the transition in this country will end, with these various changes, additions and adjustments to the laws of some party leaders. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39452	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and Zoran Krasic. Mrs. Jankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39453	The bill provides for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to have the same number of actions of the stock fund, which are passed on to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with ordinary actions of the same nominal value, which are in the name and have the right to vote, but the right to vote is realised by the Republic of Serbia, through the Privatisation Agency, again contrary to Article 208. The company law. Namely, Article 208. The company law stipulates that every ordinary action of a stockholder gives the shareholder the same rights under this law, and that:) the right to participate in the work of the congregation of society, the right to vote in the assembly of society, so that one action always gives the right to one vote, then the right to access legal acts and other documents and information of society, the right to pay dividends, the right to participate in the distribution of the liquidation surplus after the liquidation of the company, the right to acquire actions from new emissions and the right to dispose of actions. Under the rule of lex specialis law, the provisions of the Business Society Act cannot be derivated. This norm is a violation of private property, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, for the reason that ordinary actions of the stock fund with the right to vote are shared to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that their right to vote is taken away, by transferring voting rights to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic further to the Privatisation Agency. In the history of action, this is a precedent, that the shareholder, who owns the action of a shareholder society, owns an action with the right to vote, and that in doing so his right to manage the state, the Republic of Serbia through another state body, i.e. Privatisation agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39454	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39455	The idea of the stock fund is contrary to everything that exists in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, and will, unfortunately, become legal if 126 MPs vote this law on amendments and additions to this law. But let's go back to Article 11. I have to, here's a heavy heart to praise the government. They gave a really good opinion. They responded to the amendment, so that if this amendment were accepted, the whole law would be unthinked. That's right. That's why we wrote the amendment, to show how pointless this law is. That's exactly what I'm I thank you, God, for once to guess. So it's true. Now the citizens understand why we want to dissipate this law. Very simple and simple. If in one undefined and contrary to the legal order, something called the stock fund, you put in these free actions, which no one knows how much they're worth, then the citizens, you know, will enter 15% of the total number of actions of the JP "EPS", as far as we don't know; whether to devalue the economy, it wouldn't surprise us, that's how they always do when something is in privatisation; then, 15% of the total number of actions by the JP "Nikola Tesla", and that can be worth, 15% of the actions that belong to the Republic of Serbia in "Telecom Serbia", and they can refute. It was, however, the amendment of the PUPS that more JAT Airways and Galenika were inserted into this basket, they say – it is of little value and it is not worth slaughtering the ox because of two kilograms of liver. It goes into that so-called. Insider privatisation. A few days ago we hear that JAT won't be like this anymore, shutting down JAT Airways. They're opening something else. Whose wish? By order of a foreign strategic partner. Who is it? We'll see. Who's in charge of this country? Foreigners. Whose interests do they satisfy? Foreigners. What's this going to be for free for the citizens? Nothing. The citizens won't get anything. She'll get a colorful lie, as this government has received a colorful lie. It's been from the EU for years: you have to do this, that, that, and what are you offering? It says: a European perspective, a European future. What's that? No one lives knows. In anticipation of the European perspective and the European future, somewhere in 2050, what will happen to the people? What's gonna happen to people? What's gonna happen to jobs? What about the property of this state? What's going to happen to what's the advantage of this country? It's all gonna blow up. And then who's to blame? It will not be their fault, but all those who cooperate with them, who accept and agree to this story. That's enough of that story for 10 years. Ten years is just an illusion. Media dock, no work, no family, no tradition, watch TV, play prize games and enjoy. When you turn around, you're a wasteland. What will those who create it say? The people have accepted it. Let me just remind you in the days of Jelicin, that famous Chubis, etc., in Russia they worked there so-called. free voucher privatisation, something was hanging out there and Djelic at the time. What happened? Got people's papers. For a beer crate, everyone sold their papers and the mob took the business, the good part. Cheaters. Here we have a little kobayagi something different, European wash, no one talks about KIM, no one talks about organized crime. It's just news on TV now, in the papers, the state fights, and organized crime in the pores of society. Wherever you turn. What's going to happen to these actions? What are we going to be surprised tomorrow if the owner of these actions is some alleged Darko Saric? Does he even exist? Or someone else? That's why in time we warn and praise the government for finally realizing that we've submitted an amendment to break the law, to dissipate it. Your expert group wrote a dozen years ago that the value of social capital to be privatized is 35 billion. When you take all the effects of privatisation you don't get up to three and a half, 10% and how which tender or some auction falls every next drop value the initial price is lower, lower, lower. Now they realized they were praying to tycoons who had ruined the Serbian economy to enter the process of restructuring fallen companies that did not exist. How much longer are we gonna swallow that? As long as: 126, I can do whatever I want. It's a strong criterion. We say all this for the sake of the people, for the people to understand what kind of situation they are in, and their children, and their grandchildren and their offspring of the future, that tomorrow, when they turn around and see the wilderness around them, everyone realizes that they have somehow agreed. How did he say yes? What I just said, as long as there's one for him, there's one for us. I didn't finish that story, and it turns out there's no such thing as a company anymore, and there's no such thing as these people. Smart in the head.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39456	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39457	The draft law stipulating that actions of the stock fund are included in the securities market in accordance with the provisions of the Securities Market Act are also contrary to Article 194(4). The company law, which is prescribed that a closed company cannot register actions with a public offering or otherwise offer its actions by public means. This norm is contrary to the law governing the securities market as this law applies only to public companies, and in the sense of this law, public companies are considered to be a legal person who has successfully executed at least one primary public offering of those securities and who has been granted a licence from the Commission for securities of value for issue, i.e. the inclusion of these charters on an organised market. Closed companies are non-public companies and the actions of these companies can only be traded in accordance with the provisions of the Company Act, not in accordance with the provisions of the Securities Market Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39458	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Lidija Dimitrijevic. Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have tabled to Article 13 has proposed to delete this member of the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right to Free Action and the Money Compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. Article 13 proposes that the original law be complemented by Articles 19a, 19b, 19v, 19g and the provisions of these articles be submitted to the stock fund. The SRS Parliament Club has proposed to remove all the members of this bill relating to the establishment and operation of the stock fund. Otherwise, most of the amendments to the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Privatisation Agency also refer to the establishment of a stock fund, we will talk about this later, but our amendments and this bill are the same. The two draft laws are on the agenda of this session of the National Assembly, although it is strongly advised to withdraw these draft laws to the Government of Serbia shortly after the cabinet session. With this request to the government, the Council for the fight against corruption, the body competent to demand something like this. In a letter addressed to the Serbian prime minister, the Council estimated that the proposed changes would speed up corruption in privatisation. It is further stated – the establishment of a stock fund would result in an institution that has large assets and many powers, but without any control and responsibility. The SRS agrees with this view and we have submitted amendments to these draft laws that we have proposed to delete all provisions relating to the establishment of a stock fund. So the government wants to set up a fund that is said to be not a classical investment fund in terms of the laws governing investment funds. In fact, this fund can't be because its work doesn't correspond to the activities of investment funds. It is established to sell the shares in the Privatization Register, as well as actions in the portfolio of the Action Fund, and then to provide funds from those actions and actions by other public undertakings listed in the law so that it can issue shares of the fund to citizens. Otherwise, to point out that the public enterprises listed in the law are "Electropriority of Serbia", "Telecom" and "Nikola Tesla" Airport. It is written in an explanation that this seems to allow equality of all citizens with regard to the right to action without compensation, even to the Constitution, to Article 21(3), which guarantees the right of citizens to equality. I have to ask - what kind of respect for the right to equality is spoken of here? Is the right to equality and that after 10 years of the privatisation process we have two diametrically opposite sides, on the one hand a multitude of disproved former workers without a job, and I will remind you that the right to work is also guaranteed by the Constitution, Article 60. On the other hand, we have a new social class of overrich people, whose wealth is measured by astronomical figures. These are people who have become rich in the accident of thousands of former workers who are now in the category of unemployed. The reason that a stock fund will be established is that during the election campaign you promised citizens free action when privatising public enterprises. Now that you have this fund, the rightholders of free action will not get shares in certain public enterprises that they could own, but rather actions of the stock fund, and yet they won't be real stockholders of the fund, they don't have the right to manage and control. The Fund will have one organ and that's the Council of the Fund elected by the Government. The Council shall have unlimited authority over the assets of the fund to be examined in that it can make all decisions on the sale of actions outside the market and the sale will take place at the moment and under the conditions laid down by the Fund and the Agency. Otherwise, the aim of ensuring respect for citizens' rights to equality, you also predicted that citizens for free actions, whose first sales are carried out by 31 December 2012, would not pay brokerage services or the costs of the Belgrade Stock Exchange. These are things that are so little significant. You're not ready to tell the public openly that you don't want them to benefit from selling the public enterprises you intend to achieve. First, you will sell part of Telecom, and soon we can expect the "Nikola Tesla" Airport and the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Srbija", but a little later on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39460	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39461	My colleague Lydia Dimitrijevic, in fact, explained my motives for eradicating all members of this law very well. Not even that there is no objection by opposition parties, that it is not established, it is incomprehensible that the Anti-Corruption Council has writtenly asked the prime minister on March 20th to withdraw this bill, because it will speed up corruption, and what the government thinks of the Council or corruption anyway, it is now clear by putting this law on the agenda. It may not have made sense to submit individual amendments that read – it is deleted because there is no possibility that the text of this law in general could be improved, which would be the purpose of the amendment, but it is also no less important reason to ignore the Council's opinion on the fight against corruption that the bill should be withdrawn, and that is why I was forced to make amendments in which each individual member is deleted and to simply draw citizens' attention to what is behind the hill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39462	The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39463	The draft law on free share of actions provides for the establishment of an Action Fund which has all the features of the Investment Fund, for the reason that the Action Fund can broadcast actions, buy actions, sell actions, buy its own actions, as well as the Action Fund is managed by the Privatisation Agency as a management company, while the provisions of the Investment Funds Act are not applied either to the Action Fund, nor to the Privatisation Agency as a management company. Here, let's state a few characteristic deviations from the law mentioned. The draft law on free share of shares provides that the Action Fund is set up with a monetary stake of 50,000 euros in dinar equivalent to the national bank of Serbia's middle rate on the day of payment, which is contrary to the Investment Funds Act, which is prescribed that the founding stake for the establishment of an investment fund, closed and open, is 200 000 euros in dinar equivalent to the middle rate of the NBS on the day of payment, while only in the case of a private investment fund is the founding stake of 50,000 euros. The question is, can the Stock Fund, whose founder of the state, have the features of a private investment fund in the part of founding capital?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39464	The amendment was also submitted to article 14 by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39465	The draft law on free division of actions stipulates that on the day of the registration of the fund, the Agency for Business Registers shall obtain the conditions for the start of the work of the Fund, with the President of the Council applying for the registration of funds in the register of economic operators and taking all legal and practical actions to start the work of the Fund, contrary to the provisions of the Investment Funds Act. Namely, the Securities Commission, according to the provisions of the Investment Funds Act, shall keep a register of investment funds when the following conditions are met: when the Commission grants an authorisation to organise an open, i.e. a management company concludes a contract with the bank, the management company shall provide evidence of the funds collected and the organisation responsible for managing the business registers shall issue a copy of the closed fund register. Once again, the provisions of the Investment Funds Act and the roles and significance of the Securities Commission as the competent regulatory body in the securities market have been derivated under the lex specialis of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39466	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39467	I would like to begin a comment on this amendment with one question from the government's representatives present. Are you prepared to defend this as a lex specialis, if it's one or two laws that will be brought down by the most uneducated and unsuspecting judge in the Constitutional Court? Someone who first received this case has all the elements that these two laws, intertwined, intertwined, brought down in court. I will repeat everything that my colleagues have presented in the shortest possible way, as regards the founding role or capital of a closed or open society, violations of the Company Act, violations of the Investment Funds Act. This is neither a fish nor a girl, nor a girl and a fish, this is an unconstitutional and illegal attempt to prove yourself to the citizens by unlawfully giving them free action in an illegal procedure that they will not be able to have in accordance with the law and will not be able to draw out of them the rights that give them a positive rule of law. Many Serbian citizens wonder if it is the surface of those who write these laws or who do not respect what is called waist, and here I ask if this is a failure to comply with the constitution as a supreme law? Methodological rules for law writing will apply from July 1st. That part of the Law on the National Assembly has already been published in "The Official Messenger". I can't say right now that this methodological rule has already been broken that the Legislative Committee would have to refuse this. But I can't say that the Legislative Committee would refuse these two laws, because it has passed one law on the construction of MG 10, where expropriation is allowed to be carried out under the rules that are permitted only for a company that is owned by a majority state. The Legislative Committee here has allowed the 126 to do so and a company that does not have majority state property. Is there now every law that comes with lex specialis, or is this such a legal galatia that none of those whose right is violated by this law or broken, and you represent it with a gift, in fact, will be able to be realised in any court, except in any international one, where domestic legislation will still have to be compared and see that these laws are neither in accordance with the Constitution, nor in accordance with the Investment Funds Act, at the moment of establishment, nor in the manner of representation. It takes 200,000 euros for the investment fund to be established. This fund is founded here with 50 grand. For the closed society of 100 founders is some rule, all over 100 goes out in the open. There are 4,800,000 members of the closed society here. Guys, if I told someone I was discussing, they'd tell me what kind of country you live in? I'm asking you: law schools, laws, stop, is it all thrown under your feet to tell someone here, you're all against citizens, you don't let them be given free action. Let's have someone tell me I'm wrong. What is the necessary condition for a closed stock company? Founder number, founding bet. What does the Business Society Act foresee for representation? Can it represent one of these, I don't know what this is anymore, a state body, a company, an investment fund. A council proposed only by the minister and not by the director as a representative, not by the board of directors, as stated by the Company Act. I wonder sometimes if we who take this business seriously are people who need to seriously approach what you serve us in the most unserious way, or should we give up everything. I'm not someone who can easily raise his hands, even from a bill like this. I don't have that right on behalf of all those young people who finish school and expect them to find a job somewhere, but to work in accordance with some rules, laws, and not by obeying someone who allows them to work. Is there a lawyer among you? Is there anyone among you who has asked whether the stock fund is in conflict of interest here because the Republic of Serbia through it is taking away the right of citizens to vote, the right to see the business of the stock fund, because the Republic of Serbia through the Agency, which is also a society for the management of this fund, is actually selling the stock fund. Is everything we say behind the pay phone really empty paper that comes out of this house without authorizing us who have spoken and serves various things? When we adopted the first Free Share Act, which you are now changing, I said it was brought in because of brokerage houses that are supposed to do the first-sale jobs for free. Yeah, it's supposed to be free, because the budget is actually going to pay that cost for that first sale. So it's not free. Citizens only pay not directly but in a detour, the way the JAT should exclude property and set up another company with a different name. What about when some who believe in JAT come tomorrow and say, "Where is the property that we should be charged?" As for you, when your husband and wife are divorced, you leave your property for once, and you leave your debts to others on credit and other liabilities, for example. For JAT's unpaid fuel and figure it out, you say this is a genius thing, we're going to heal a company now. Is that how you go to Europe? Is that how European standards are achieved? All those who are my generations or similar in the '60s. and older age, they know this used to be called a fraud. There's no other term. When you transfer assets from one company to another, when you start a company, you don't check the owner, or if he has the founding capital to do something, what it is, a fraud. Do you allow a kiosk to open or a bake shop if there is no wet knot, then enough squares, then a sanitary book, etc.? It has now turned out to be the most profitable trade in the financial market of actions, cheating on citizens to win the election. Let me hear someone tell me I'm wrong or that I'm wrong when I'm presenting this information? Mr. Djelic had Altis' capital and Altis's investment, with several hundred dollars of founding capital working as a financial house, as a bank. He boasted about it. He introduced himself like that. He worked six months without an open jury account, so not paying the state tax, and you're taking it as an example now. Which there could not be one such fund, which has no supervision, which only has advice, which is in conflict of interest, which does not have sufficient founding capital, which behaves as an investment fund, which violates the Business Society Act, etc. and so on. Broker houses to earn, until you clear up with them accounts of how the consulting services of legal advisors, financial advisors, etc. went? Serbian citizens will believe you are doing something for them. My lords, these laws will be brought down in the Constitutional Court, if they are completed and done in them by men, one of whom will, after the adoption of these laws, file an initiative. Not to talk about what the values were supposed to be, what they were, companies from which these actions were to be paid off. You believe me that I've never felt more uncomfortable in this home, but by talking about this law, except in the case – when we passed the Download Act when we were the day after the transaction at the Commercial Bank, left to someone today and the day after tomorrow, completely leaving as a state from the bank, which is one of the few remaining domestic ones, and we, according to the applicable law of whose amendments we discussed, talked about the next day, and you were trying to get confirmation from us of the conqualification of the irregularity. I'm not a lawyer, I'm an economist, but as an economist, I know that one of the first legal disputes was – considering selling someone else's. I'm not talking about restitution. That'll come in handy. I'm talking about you selling something you don't have the right to, in an illegal procedure and which can be challenged. In addition, even if the citizens were to turn a blind eye – what you give them is only half of what they are entitled to, according to existing laws. Please, if you have any professional honors – withdraw this law from the procedure and do not let us talk about it any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39468	The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39469	The draft law on free division of actions stipulates that the Privatisation Agency manages the Action Fund, which has all the features of the management company, in accordance with the provisions of the Investment Funds Act, where the provisions of this Act do not apply to the Privatisation Agency. Here are some examples of this claim. The management company shall be established as a closed company and management companies shall be subject to the provisions of the laws governing companies. The Privatisation Agency is a state institution operating under public agencies regulations and has no form of a closed company, in accordance with the Business Society Act. By way of provision of Article 7 The Investment Funds Act is prescribed – that the monetary part of the management company's core capital, when set up, is at least 200,000 euros in dinar equivalent at the middle rate of the NBS on the day of payment. Item 3 of Article 7 The law is prescribed – that the management company is obliged to ensure in its business that the monetary part of the basic capital of the company is always at a level that is not less than the dinar equivalent of 200,000 euros, which is not foreseen by the draft law on free share of shares. The management company organizes, manages an open fund, builds and manages a closed fund and manages a private fund. The management company cannot carry out any other activity other than these activities. The Privatisation Agency, in addition to the envisaged management operations of the Action Fund, has other competences and powers under the privatisation regulations, such as promotions, initiation and implementation of the privatisation of social, state capital, the control of purchase contracts, the conduct of operations of the bankruptcy and liquidation manager, the sale of immovable property in the name and for the account of third parties – contrary to the pre-mentioned provision of the Investment Funds Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39470	The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39471	The Commission for Securities of Values, in accordance with the provisions of the Investment Funds Act, shall issue work permits and shall keep a register of management companies, which is not provided for by that proposal for the Free Sharing Act. By order of Article 12. The Investment Funds Act is prescribed to apply the provisions of the laws governing companies to the management company's bodies. Article 12(3) states that the director and member of the management of the company cannot be a person who, among other things, is a official or appointed person or a civil servant. Paragraph 4 of Article 12 provides that the director and members of the management of the management company must have high school equipment, with the Director and at least half of the management members having to have at least three years of working experience acquired in the conduct of operations relating to securities of value in the country or abroad, which is not foreseen again by the draft law on free division of action. By way of derogation from Article 13(1), The Investment Funds Act stipulates that the Securities Commission agrees with the selection of the proposed members of the management board and the director of the management company, which is not provided for by the draft Free Sharing Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39472	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Vladan Jeremic. Anybody want a word? Yes, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39473	counterpart Jorvanka Tabakovic has already talked practically about the conflict of interest. Because the proposed law on free division requires that the stock fund has a form of a closed stock company that has no employees and management bodies, and the management of the stock fund is carried out by the Privatisation Agency, which is contrary to the provisions of the Company Act, but also the provisions of the Investment Funds Act. In particular, the provisions of the Business Society Act stipulate that the authorities of the closed stock company are a congregation, as the body of the owner, board or director of the company, as a company management body. The proposed law on free division of actions does not provide for the existence of a congregation of society as owners' bodies, and shareholders, owners of shares of the stock fund, which are four million and 800,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, do not have the right to vote and to see the business and work of the stock fund. This right is achieved instead by the Republic of Serbia through the Privatisation Agency, which is also a company for the management of the stock fund and which sells the stock fund. Even someone who isn't really educated in the area of economics, like me, is clear that it's a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39474	Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39475	Generally, the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency and the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on free division of actions cannot amend the provisions of the Law on Privatisation as the basic law governing the material of privatisation, so that the proposed laws violate the principle of constitutionality and legality, which actually undermines the legal system of the state, as well as the institutional functioning of the capital market, which is fully marginalised by the proposed laws. What I finally have to tell you as a secret, I'm definitely not an expert in economics, but I got the material that I've exhibited from a group of citizens who will know that their violated rights are being exercised in front of domestic or international courts. Although I am not an expert in economics, I am a psychologist, and I can therefore agree with my colleague, Dr. Zarko Korać, who said on a TV show, that the atmosphere assembly is extremely tense almost every time Minister Dinkic appears. Now that's not the case. If it wasn't just the tension of MPs as a national representative, but actually the animosity of the people, it was easy to determine only one key to the Google search. Here's what happens when you type in – Dinkić and look for a simple, not an advanced search: "Dinkic Emperor, blow us up"... This shouldn't go any further... "Dinkic Action, Dinkic Minister, Dinkic Thief, Dinkic Credit, Dinkic 1700, Dinkic Tsar, Overturning the Old Mountain for Small Money". In July 2009, "Kurir" and "The Voice of the Public" launched an action – charge for the actions promised by Dinkic. He wasn't sanctioned then, but "Kurr" did. Now that even Junior can't do everything, on Facebook there's a group called – Dinkic, you come to us another 980 euros, and it counts 70,000 members.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39476	National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 19th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39477	Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. The bill, with the aim of pointing to an injustice that has been going through since the Law was passed in 2007. By my suggestion, I asked that this injustice be corrected. What's this about? The law on the right to free action, which was adopted in 2007, provided for the right to action without compensation to citizens who did not exercise the right to action under the Law on their own transformation in any way, who did not exercise the right in any way. Those who, under the Law on Privatisation in 2001 even partially exploited the right to free action, were entitled to the rest. What's the injustice? The one who did not take full advantage of the actions under the Law on his own transformation had no right to free action, and the one who did not fully benefit from the Law on Privatisation had. Then we warned and pointed out to the then government that it was an injustice, and that it was discrimination and that it was unacceptable because it puts people in an unequal position. My attempt to through this amendment, I will use the time of the parliamentary group, correct it, was answered by the government very argument, I must say, I accept the argument of the Government - it is not possible to do this now, I translate it, because the procedure for the control of the conditions for obtaining free action in accordance with the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens are carrying out in the privatisation process has been completed, and with the application of the conditions laid down in that member and that, if this amendment were accepted, citizens would certainly be placed in an unequal position because it would include some revisions and everything else. I totally agree that right now it's really something that can't be fixed. I want to point out once again, unfortunately, the injustice we pointed to in 2007, it remained present. But I'm going to use this argument, the concise argument of the government that this is not possible now, because it would be a great carambol, conditional to say, audits, so that in this way all the next ones who would be doing it would be in an unequal position, using this explanation, I would like to express my regret that it has not been considered and Mr. Moma Colakovic's amendment has not been adopted. As I recall, he was rejected as an untimely one. Unfortunately, neither the Committee took advantage of its right to propose it as a committee. What's this about? The point is that again in the basic law, they had the right to free action and six companies were listed: NIS, EPS, Telecom, JAT, "Gelenika", Belgrade Airport. I find it entirely unfounded that both JAT and Galenika were expelled from this bill. There is no reason, it is something that has already been offered to citizens in the basic law in 2007. I've been thinking about calling the government to think about it one more time. Otherwise, the amendment asked for the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia to be submitted and they are absolutely right, considering, when required to submit the amendment, that there is no basis for these two companies to be excluded, so to speak, from this law, that they too are not covered by those 15% of actions that would be shared free of charge to citizens who have acquired those rights. Of course, I know, and I'm aware that the crisis has done its part, that the stock is dropping, the value is dropping, but it needs to be, in our opinion, and the motive not to sell quickly, not even to Galenika. I think Galenika is one company, especially now, which is now, when the investment one project is completed, which will increase its values multiplely, and I would be very pleased if the state were to define that, as a serious state, it has one serious pharmaceutical house in majority ownership, for many reasons. Now that I don't explain it further, I think it's a shame that this amendment to the Syndicate has not been adopted, because it doesn't disrupt the concept of the whole law, it doesn't question all of that, and it can put citizens in doubt that something that has already been acquired, to say the law, is not new. Therefore, by supporting the Government in an explanation of not accepting my amendment, I believe that this very argument gives an even greater explanation that the Union amendment should have been accepted when it comes to these two companies, that the right to free action remains, as was the case in law. I will conclude, I support the government's argument on my amendment. Once again I take the opportunity that the injustice was done the last time the law was passed and in addition to our efforts to correct it, I know and I am aware that the correction is not possible now, but once again I call you, think about the Union amendment that these two companies return, as I would say, to a law that has been in force so far, unless there is a orientation that the Galenika remains in majority ownership, which is just the most welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39478	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39479	One of the basic motivational factors that I put in this article is, in fact, the fact that it is January 9th, which means three days after the citizens who wrote the right to take action were paid 1,700 dinars, made on Facebook, a group called "Dinkic, you come to us another 980 euros" and that within 24 hours according to the administrator's data had 68,789 members. Now there are 70,000 members. Since such groups usually have several hundred members, the number of 70,000 is impressive. If we compare it to the number of people who usually go to the polls, that's about 2%, just as much as, according to research by all the relevant agencies, the rating G17. Along with all this Freedom Movement, he urged citizens to prevent the transition of censorship to the G17 party under the slogan "Only the people can defeat Dinkic, the others with him are making a coalition". Obviously, there is a proportion between the people's will and the ability of Dinkic's party to always be inserted, so it is a very important part of the government. In that sense, the G17 resembles JUL, which had little public support and disproportionate power, since it controlled spheres of vital importance. The JUL rang, the bell and the man whose basic, almost hidden professional ambition, whether his character was found on the bill of the highest value. He failed as governor, tried as a "expert in front of politics", as a minister who's always where the money is, but nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39480	Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 21 refers to an institute which, according to the SRS, should not have existed in any previous law. I wish you'd suggested eradicating this institute, which gives the government discretionary right to sell companies when it falls and so on, instead of sharing free shares for some cash fees based on some self-called market price. So, one discretionary right which we of the SNS consider to be, above all, aimed at potentially bringing down some social unrest which, unfortunately, is across Serbia because of the economic situation of workers, is potentially to be used for some pre-election campaigns. Also, it's said clearly – the government can, but it doesn't have to, it likes it here, it doesn't like it there. I think all these rights that the government gives itself are significantly destroying the equality of citizens and, therefore, not acceptable. They are not acceptable from a well-known fact that, as far as these free actions are concerned, there will be so many problems, given that our financial market is very shallow, that nothing has been invested for years and that it has been deepening and that we have an outflow of capital from that market years ago. It's true, the last few months, it's like some kind of photo repair, but because we hit the bottom, you can't do it anymore. It's so low the price of our actions, it's so low the whites 15 and the whites line, it can only go up now, but it's no guarantee that citizens for these free actions that will be shared will be able to expect some price that could satisfy them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39482	Mrs. Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39483	Interestingly, just the moment I want to discuss my amendment for the last time. In the end, if I don't turn out to be a fool, I also have very well-intentioned advice. Since I've twice had the opportunity to listen to Junior as a performer of musical numbers, once in Zemun's Kajaku, and the second time in the Laba Bar, and this well-intentioned advice refers to that craft, which, however, will have to bake a little more, but it's better for us and him to play than to play "Jutubu". Ice Nigrutin does it best anyway. After all, Junior himself at NIN 3062 says, "The plum is a universal product. You can eat from it, if you're hungry, if you feel bad, you can get drunk. That's what I do sometimes, because believe me, whatever you think, this ministerial job isn't easy at all. "No wonder Mrs. Susana Grubjesic mentioned the alcohol test last time, the woman has experience. Velimir Ilic immediately after that brought official confirmation with the VMA of the 0.00 blood alcohol spill. What will the younger one bring, we don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39484	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Sreto Peric submitted to the 24th amendment in the same text. Mr. Peric wants, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Jankovic, don't mind me, and above all, those from the G17 Plus party, Mr. Young would be best to resign. That would be something not for us from the SRS, but for the citizens of Serbia to expect it. This afternoon, two topics dominated. It's free action, and at one point there's been a little talk about early elections. When it comes to free action, so as not to be misunderstood, we would certainly like to, in the SRS, if something could be shared free to our citizens, even if it was 1,700, five or less, but to tell citizens how much it is, and not in any way to lie. As for holding elections, the SRS at any time, whether they are regular, extraordinary or any other way, when they are citizens, or when their regular time is maintained, we are here to participate and always accept the will of the citizens, whatever they are. That by any chance it has been correct in terms of privatisation since 2001, I think that today this government, as well as the citizens of Serbia, could have lived much more carefreely. If many of them hadn't multipled, some thousand times, some even more, increased thanks to the privatisation process, today would have been from the sale of enterprises, and in order to implement privatisation, it could be quite solid to live and to provide for the functioning of state institutions. But the way privatisation has been done since 2001 or 2004, in no way, it has been good for both employees and those who were expecting new employment. Today, Mrs Popovic, Judita Popovic, vice president of the National Assembly, mentioned that Zrenjanin's death was a city. We agree, it's all about the privatisation done, so it'd be better if there were room for both Zrenjanin and many other places to develop. Let me just say that there are much poorer places than Zrenjanin, first of all, when it comes to road infrastructure, and I'm glad that there are fellow MPs here who come from where I'm from, and they can testify whether I'm right or not, is what I'm saying true. Let's say, the traffic from Loznica to Krupnje, from Krupnje to Ljubovija, should go and look at it, see what shape it is and then say if there is any serious intention for regional development that would be of interest to the citizens of Serbia. At no point are we for any central form of government, but the government exists, and it is concentrated on a republican level, so today it is explained to you from the SRS and there is what local self-government is doing, and it should be much more authorised and helpful to those who, on behalf of citizens, perform a function in local self-governments, so that conditions and living standards at that level can be increased without waiting for ministers from the government, from Belgrade, to resolve something. It is true that the citizens of Prepolje were probably happy to build the bridge and, as some of you have said, that it may be an investment of the century, but in that place, believe me, it was likely that those who were both in function and in their responsibilities were required to take over the construction of the facility, but certainly not those who came to this place today with very few prospects and prospects that this could be expected by the government of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39486	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39487	Mr. Sreto Peric mentioned me. Mr. Peric, why are you at the end of your heart, and you immediately mention your resignation? There are at least 10 reasons why a man should and can love Mladjan Dinkic. Number one, because he said he didn't want to see the protest workers, and something tells me that they wanted to see him the most, even if he didn't bring them Kebu. Two, because most of these workers sit on rails and roads, testifying to a successful Serbian privatisation or if Mladja and Aca remembered to insert and gas chambers into the concept, privatisation would look like a major historical project. Three, because just the two of them could go where that strange world camped in January and tell them that the crisis is at an end, and that at the end of next week, temperatures are expected to rise. Four, because thanks to him, the Germans and Italians in Belgrade are making themselves more favourable business contracts than in 1942. The fifth, because Serbia is hypocritical of it, is that it has promised them a thousand euros of action, but those 17 euros they received have been welcomed as a million. It's not a pleasure in money, it's an impression. Sixth, because he's already come up with a new rattle, 20,000 jobs for interns. It's only waiting for those workers who were on the tracks to die from winter. Seven, because editors of Serbian regime newspapers with many enthusiasms welcomed Mladja's action, knowing that one day he would tell the truth. Eight, because the French revolution broke out for less than what he did to Serbia. Nine, because Boris was supposed to let Junior go to Eurosong. And Herman Gerling loved art. The tenth, because Boris must not do so, would rather be forgiven by the party to storm the army into Kosovo than drive away such a dedicated protector of rich Serbs and foreign capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39488	Mrs. Judita Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting within the meaning of Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Zrenjanin has only been mentioned as one example of how the issue of balanced regional development is addressed in Serbia. Normally, Grain as a city can't be a dead city as long as it has its own people who are and how it lives. However, when we compare Zrenjanin's status as an industrial centre, and it was second-largest, by importance in the SFRY, and now it is 23rd in its economic strength, then we can conclude that Zrenjanin is now and how a dead city is. Unfortunately, we cannot say that for other cities, or other regions in Serbia, because I have also mentioned this as an example and as a paradigm in Serbia, that if a particular city or region has its own significant politician or someone who has a certain political impact on the existing government, in which case the city will get a certain incentive and that city will develop, the region will develop. That's not good in Serbia. In this way, the current situation cannot be changed in terms of developed and undeveloped regions. In this context, Zrenjanin is mentioned and in this context we can mention all the regions in Serbia. In Serbia over the past tens of years, we have had situations that the hour of one city, one region more developed than others, the hour of another city, the second region. However, this has never been resolved in a systematic way, some way that will truly solve the situation of undeveloped areas. Now we are once again entering a new battle to reduce these differences between developed and undeveloped regions, but obviously we still do not have these plans and these programmes that are needed to achieve results. For this reason, the LDP supports every form of incentives, every way of exploiting the potential of all regions, whether they are developed or undeveloped. So it's important that the whole country develops, and those who are developed don't need to be limited, and those who are less developed should only be encouraged.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39490	The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39491	I will only use two minutes to say that Article 24 of these amendments is completely new and that we have asked that item 1 be deleted where the fund is transferring shares, i.e., from the portfolio of the Action Fund, is now what is significant and why we are asking for erasure, except for the shares and shares transferred to the Action Fund on the basis of broken contracts on the sale of capital, i.e. assets until the date of entry into force of this law. Mr. Cvetkovic, as director of the Agency, you will now have to admit to the public that the obvious intention, which was deceitful, was shown by this law at the moment when you suddenly began to terminate the contracts. How many workers were lying on the track? Some cut fingers, some protested in the rain, the weather, did not sleep, submitted evidence that you were competent, when I say – you, at the moment when you were the director of the agency, but also before you, were much more responsible to Mrs. Vesni Djindjic, submitted various evidence that contracts should be broken, and you as a government, and as a man and she as a director yesterday, delayed deadlines, gave various other benefits, even in some cases changing the provisions of the basic contract, by which they were reduced levels of guarantees for respect of signed contracts. So that at the moment you came up with this law, not in the interest of the citizens, but in the interest of those who will deal with it and who will be alleged donors, you suddenly started to respect the law, you even said it in public – from now on we will respect the law and break contracts with all those who do not respect the deadlines. Do Serbian citizens deserve that? Is the story of shareholders, the rights of minority shareholders really going to be promoted this way? That for years some people, who have come to a large amount of money, land, businesses, look through their fingers, and now that you need a political law like this, you leave yourself the right to even in transitional and final terms in a special way to have this kind of capital? I don't think this, like everything else in advance, comes in favor of you at all, not in relation to the general interest, not to the citizens, but to the voters in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39492	Members of the 25th amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milorad Buha submitted to the 26th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who does not want a word? The 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, who wants a word. Here you go. Your task force has eight minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39493	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 27. The bill requires the founder to ensure that public undertakings EPS, the "Nikola Tesla" Airport and the already privatised NIS stock company change their legal form and show their underlying capital in actions. A deadline has been set in which the founder is required to provide conditions for a change in legal form. The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS refers to a change in the deadline for changing the legal form of the Public Enterprise "Nikola Tesla". Something is coming to the impression that the government is in a hurry to sell, or if it's a more appropriate term, it privatises these public enterprises. On the occasion of the privatisation of public enterprises that I have mentioned, I will read what is stated in the reasons for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the right to free actions that citizens make in the privatisation process. Fellow MPs have already spoken about it, but it is good and worth hearing again. Meanwhile, since the entry into force of the Law on the Right of Free Action, which citizens are pursuing in the privatisation process to date, there has been a significant change in socio-economic relations caused by the global economic crisis, whose consequences have also been inevitable for the national economic situation. In fact, the lack of strategic investors interested in investing in Serbia also leads to a drop in the price that would be obtained by selling public enterprises listed in the law, from whose sales should have provided cash compensation, as well as actions that would have been passed on to citizens without compensation. In that sense, the deadlines of the law and the original legislative concept could not be respected. It is said here that the lack of strategic investors interested in investing in Serbia also leads to a drop in prices, which would be obtained by selling public enterprises. You also decided to sell Telecom, the most profitable Serbian firm. We've had opportunities to hear from the Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society that the main part of the global crisis has passed. The telecommunications sector didn't get that bad, it even has some growth. A further recovery is expected, so from this point of view, it's not bad for the sale of Telecom. These contradictions are hard to understand. The Serbian prime minister also said the sale is good for Telecom. Interesting what else he said – all those who fear citizens these days that phone prices will be more, do not know the system and overlook the fact that the Republic Telecommunications Agency regulates prices. Also, actions that citizens will receive will be worth significantly more, the prime minister stressed. No one frightens citizens with higher phone prices, but the facts speak for themselves. We recently had an increase in the monthly fixed telephony subscription. "Telecom Serbia" has since 1 April raised the price of subscription from 230 dinars from VAT to 458 dinars. I will now quote the words of the recent governor of the NBS Radovan Jelasic, which relate to the announced privatisations of public enterprises – we put our privatisation revenues to the most extent in the budget, and then we spent them. It's very hard to figure out where that money went afterwards. Are we going to use that money to cut our foreign debt? Are we going to use it to strengthen the pension fund without getting more and more out of the budget every year to pay off our pensions? For me, it is a challenge, said Mr. Jelasic, someone who is well-known for the ways of money from privatisation. In the end, I would like to remind you of what kind of host this government is and how it has the resources of public enterprises. At the insistence of the SRS, the following data came forward last year. At the time, the director of the "Nikola Tesla" airport had monthly incomes of 880,226 dinars in the first part and 1,160,000 dinars in the second part. His associates ranged from 310,000 to 362,000 dinars, the chairman of the Management Board of about 180,000 dinars, while in 2008, some 16 million dinars went to the board of directors of the Aerodrom, which numbered 12 members.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39494	Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatization Agency (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milan Škrbić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milan Vesenović, Nenad Popović, Arsen Djurić, Dragan Stevanović, Mladen Grujic, Marina Toman, Momcilo Duvnjak, Vladan Jeremic, Aleksandar Martinović, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic and Nemanja Sarovic and a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected, as an untimely amendment of the People's MP Mom Colakovic to Article 5. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, the rejected amendment cannot be discussed and shall not be voted on. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serb and People's MP Milan Skrbic. Mr. Zoran Antic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39495	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 1 refers to a commission from the Privatisation Agency. In the previous law, I was already talking about the work of the Privatisation Agency, but here is the opportunity to say about the funds and the way the Privatisation Agency is financed, that neither the public nor we MPs have the right insight into what means the Privatisation Agency has. Is there any reason for this commission to be taken over by the Privatisation Agency? It already has revenues when it comes to tenders, and when it comes to auctions, it also has its own revenues by giving various opinions. I don't think we have any real insight into all this, and even if we've already defined ourselves that when we share free shares of the state to broker companies, that is, those costs that the brokerage companies have, take over, I don't see why and in this case, when it comes to commission, the state hasn't taken over these costs on itself. First of all, in that first law, it is limited when it comes to free action, it seems to me, to 2012. She could have been identified in this case for the same solution. I think that these citizens who first sell their shares, because of the great offer, will anyway have a relatively low price of action and that the commission should have been left behind, in any case, and as the income of the Privatisation Agency and as some cost that they will have based on the sale of those shares.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39496	The People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment to Article 2. The draft law so that the provisions relating to the work of the Privatisation Agency remain in Article 6 of the basic law and that provisions relating to the establishment of the Action Fund are excluded. We've already put out enough arguments so we don't need to start this fund. The establishment of a stock fund is really not in the interest of Serbian citizens. In a conversation with citizens, when free action is mentioned, citizens say they feel humiliated. One marketing trick at the time of the election campaign humiliated them in the worst possible way. A moment that is very difficult for Serbian residents, who are indeed poored in the privatisation process, for which the amount of 1,000 euros now represents an entire fortune, has been used. Unfortunately, that's true. Families where no member is employed or survive with one salary or pension, I repeat, 1,000 euros is a fortune. Last pre-election campaign, the final elections, 1,000 euros gone, there were some 1700 dinars, and now a stock fund is being established, so that citizens cannot freely dispose of actions they have the right to after the privatisation of public enterprises. I will only comment briefly on what it says in the explanation for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation Agency. In this regard, it is argued that the unification of the activities of the Privatisation Agency and the Action Fund is one of the measures of rationalising business in the context of the global economic crisis. It is also one of the measures that streamlines work and reduces the volume of public administration employees. Given that the Agency will assume a number of employees in the Action Fund and that the stock fund, as an organ, will have the advice of the fund, the president and four other members, a total of five, I would ask for an answer, but I know that at the end of this debate I will not get – how many total people will be less in the budget? You know the position of the SRS that people should not be fired at this time of the economic crisis. When you passed the rationalization laws, we repeated it countless times, but no one took note of our warnings. You've passed a law on the rationalization of employees, and now you're finding ways to get as few employees fired as possible because there are services where the homogeneous structure of your party comrades is, so you can't just fire them. That's why you're exemplifying them like this, to save them jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39498	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, the one you explained. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Mr. Djuric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39499	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have received a report from the Government that accepted the amendment to Article 3, only you have not read it. I guess it's a mistake. I would like to explain this amendment to Article 5, which Mr Nenad Popovic and I have submitted on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group. In fact, we have suggested that Article 5, i.e. Article 11v, delete Article 8, and Article 11j, paragraph 3, so that it reads as follows: The amount of commission referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be prescribed by the Minister responsible for economic and regional development activities, with the maximum amount of commission not exceeding 5% of the liquidation mass. We submitted this amendment for the reason that in the previous period, we had situations where liquidating and bankruptcy managers had disproportionately high compensation compared to the funds obtained after the end of these proceedings. The reasons for not accepting this amendment states that the fees paid were never more than 5%, but I do not see any reason why the above limit of 5% does not stand in the law, so the liquidator cannot have more compensation than 5% after the end of the procedure, so I call on you to accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39500	You're right, she accepted the government, but we have to make a statement about him because the parent board didn't debate and he didn't become an integral part of the text of the law. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. The government has also accepted this amendment, but it is the same reason as with the amendment to Article 3. The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the 9th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Toman, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39501	Ladies and gentlemen, by amendment, we suggest that Article 9 be deleted, that it arises from our position that we have repeated several times so far. We are not against sharing actions, but we cannot support such a structured action fund, and one of them is the fact that it is under the authority of the Privatisation Agency, which is, on the other hand, out of control itself, which is exposed to criticism of poorly implemented privatisation, very often in an illegal way. Citizens who have the right to free action will no longer receive shares in certain enterprises, but will receive actions from the stock fund and exercise those rights through it. However, this does not mean that citizens will be shareholders of the fund. Also, the question arises - will citizens be able to sue the members of the fund's council if they mismanage the stock fund if they question the right of those same citizens? Of course they won't be able to sue members of the Council, as no one will be able to control the work of the Fund. Citizens should know that even in this way the established organisation of business divided actions, which followed by the legislator's explanation that there was a lack of interested investors and an economic crisis, even though the economy was in a catastrophic state in the past years, is no guarantee that the principle of equality in the division of actions will be achieved. It is also a matter of no concern for citizens, but the same citizens will serve as an excuse or a more accurate front for state-owned companies to trust in ageing the Privatisation Agency, which has pushed a large number of the same citizens to the brink of existence by conducting the privatisation process. Free share of the action yes, but not in this way. In addition, the government has shown its relationship to this very important issue, a very important issue, by adopting a bill on changes and additions that are missing, unscheduled, but with its lack of today's debate of resolution ministers, which could answer many questions for us MPs or citizens of Serbia, as well as for these laws, but also for the scandalous and economically harmful decisions on the sale of Telecom, the formation of a new national airline because these decisions will be economically harmful and how to affect the citizens of Serbia. Now the government is trying to convince it to take care of its citizens, the state that takes care of its citizens is certainly not acting this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39502	The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia? Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Zoran Antic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39503	I think the topic is quite important, ladies and gentlemen, because it is about how these huge funds measured by billions of euros will also be controlled by the public, and I should say they should also be controlled by the National Assembly. And my, or amendment to the SNS, and this next amendment relating to the audit report aims to make this control much more complete than we have in the bill. In this regard, the draft law states that the possible privatisation agency gives monthly and annual reports on the price, when it comes to the action packages that have been sold, and my amendment wanted the National Assembly not directly but through the Privatisation Committee it seems to me that the closest and best known work of the Privatisation Agency still has insight into the changes monthly, because it is important that you all know what time the action packages are and that much more serious control is needed in this regard. Therefore, I believe that this is also an obligation for all MPs to be involved in this process, which involves large financial resources that will be privatised or the resources of the strongest public enterprises in Serbia and that, nevertheless, in the voting day, regardless of the government's position, MPs should change their minds and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39504	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government accepted the amendment but there was no integral part of the text. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic wants a word. The board didn't come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39505	We have submitted an amendment to Article 10, where we are asking the Government to submit a report on the Fund's operations not in the annual dynamics but in the midterm. Surprised by the acceptance of the amendment, I mean, it's not the whole thing. What does the DRI report mean to us? The report exists, as well as numerous reports by the Commission on securities of value and many regulatory bodies, and we do not discuss them because we do not have a business opportunity to state who should initiate it, in which kind of plenary debate we will discuss and it is now going to the soul of the chairman, or those who praise the rules on the writing of the law. The Legislative Committee has laid down rules on how laws are written, good day when you enter the store, goodbye when you come out, please nice, thank you nicely, Serbian language, but when we talk about whether and how abused powers are, we don't even have a business opportunity to talk about it. What's interesting is the colleague said a little bit, and I'm going to confirm that the laws have not prescribed any abuse of the Fund's work and responsible persons, and it's very possible because they are in conflict of interest to abuse powers and will not be responsible for any commercial offenses or violations. You know perfectly well, Mr Cvetkovic, that in a disproportionate, or unregulated relationship between your order to sell shares, and you don't tell them when and how, and they say they're not in charge, that should have been done by the Privatisation Agency, there have been numerous abuses, determination of packages, prices and time of sale of shares. In that supposedly invisible mistake, and I say to a intentionally embedded mistake, where you traded with each other, once it was the guilty and dirty director, the second time this director was finishing someone's business, huge assets spilled into the hands of those who are neither state nor citizen, nor free action. So someone could make ten dollars for a deposit, because it's classified information about when something will be sold, and you know it well and you have accurate information about it. Are we ever going to get a report on who made this kind of privatisation and lost the state? We never will, some think, and I say we want one, because the paperwork can't go away. The roads of money are visible. Dirty traces of dirty money will be visible to those who want to draw those paths. It is not enough to turn dynamics into half-years, but to make it possible for the Rules of Procedure to consider reports and these institutions and all those that we receive and agree on in our archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39506	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment in the same text, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and MP Aleksandar Martinovic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39507	Article 14 says the Agency is obliged to bring its general acts into line with the provisions of this law within three months. Well, this law must be first in line with the Constitution, with the Business Society Act, with the Investment Funds Act. Is it important to define a alignment within time limits with something that is basically illegal? But when we don't have the opportunity because we don't have enough of those who are aware that this is doing harm to all citizens, regardless of who they voted for and whatever this is represented by a benevolent act, everything is worthless if we have a law that is illegal in its own right and that destroys the legal security of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-20-0.u39508	The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We will continue tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. on the fifth item of the agenda – the draft law on metrology. Thank you for your cooperation. I thank Mrs. Minister and Associates. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, a sufficient number of MPs are present, there are 85 of us, and we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Mladen Grujic and Vladimir Milentijevic. I would like to inform you that I am, on the basis of Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure called for meetings and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, i.e. Master Verica Kalanovic, National Investment Plan Minister Jasna Matic, Telecommunications and Information Society Minister and Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, Youth and Sports Minister to attend, in addition to the proposing representatives. I also called on the sittings to be attended by Mr Nebojsa Ciric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development Dejan Radulovic, adviser to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. In addition to the representatives of professors Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, the meetings are attended by Neven Karanović and Periša Simonovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Zorica Pavlovic, Assistant Minister of Health. We move to the 5th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF METROGY (specificities) You have received amendments that have been made to the bill, and, Mr Dragan Todorovic, I have not seen you answer. Here you are, Mr. Todorovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
