ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47833	The esteemed chairman, the PUPS parliamentary group, has been addressed by residents of Velika Sela, belonging to the Palilula Belgrade municipality, with a request to ask one parliamentary question to the government, and this is the next. In 2005 and 2010, Velika Selo suffered major material damage from the outflow of the Danube and the damage for 2006 was estimated at around 123 million dinars and the damage for 2010, at a free estimate, amounted to about 350 million dinars. In fact, it's 230 locals, where the damage per individual is between 300,000 and 600,000 dinars. They also addressed the Commission for the determination of injury and for the recovery of the consequences of major and natural disasters, however, did not receive any response, nor did they receive any compensation for the injury. For the absurd to be larger, they were given a regular solution for paying a full tax for that year, and yet they still got solutions for the disposal fee, and they say they don't have any disposal channels. I ask the question – is it possible and how and in what way can these people be helped, if anything, at least to make it easier for them in terms of tax relief, because the damage is not small, for them it is an extremely large amount? In addition, they suffered damage, just to point out, not only on agricultural products, but also on infrastructure damage. I'd like to ask if I can get an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47834	Anyone else want a word? MP Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47835	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to leave a question to the Prime Minister, Mr Mirk Cvetkovic, and about the sale of Telecom. It is generally known that the DSS is absolutely against the sale of Telecom because we consider telecommunications to be a very important and strategic resource for infrastructure development and for economic development. This is why today, in many European countries, the most significant operators are detained in the majority ownership of the country and this is the case in Belgium, Switzerland, Sweden, Finland, Norway, Italy, Slovenia and many other European countries. Telecom Serbia is extremely important for the development of the Serbian economy, as it employs a large number of domestic experts and a large number of domestic companies, as its co-operatives. Since all interested buyers for Telecom Serbia are large world operators, it is logical that they have their traditional suppliers and traditional cooperatives and it is perfectly logical that if it comes from the privatisation of Telecom, they will obtain their goods and services from their traditional suppliers, not from our Serbian companies, which will put tens of thousands of jobs in Serbia. Also, there is no need to ignore the security aspect, given the fact that the largest number of communications between state authorities and security services goes right through Telecom Serbia. I would remind you that Telecom Serbia is the majority owner of Republika Srpska's Telecom and the third operator in Montenegro and that it represents a regional leader in the area of telecommunications and is extremely successful in business, regardless of the competition in mobile phone and recently in fixed telephony. Telecom is the most profitable Serbian company that makes a profit every year and is worth over 200,000 euros for the last three years, and in 2009 alone, the profit was over 13 billion dinars, which is the biggest net profit on the Serbian market. The proceeds are paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget, covering certain expenditures of the budget and, of course, if there is a privatisation of Telecom, the state will no longer be able to count on those revenues from the budget. Based on the surveys conducted, the vast majority of Serbian citizens opposed the sale of Telecom, as well as the widest professional public, so that the most innovative telecommunications and electricians presented their arguments against the sale of Telecom. In addition to all these arguments and the fact against the sale of Telecom, I would refer only to the text of the ad that the government has issued in the daily list "Politicals", on 20 October of this year, where a public call was called for the sale of 51% of Telecom's shares. Just a few days after the call was called, the Prime Minister said it is not known whether the state will sell 51 or 31% of Telekom shares, you are now extending the deadline for the purchase of tender documentation to December 10th, and you are really making a joke out of this process. I have to read item 6 of this ad, which refers to changes and additions to a public call, where it says that the Ministry reserves the right to amend and supplement all the elements of this public call at any time at its own discretion. If a municipality in Serbia or a public institution had opened a tender for the supply of acid water, one who would have written such a sentence in that tender would certainly have fit, but the regulations and laws in force in this country obviously do not apply to the government, obviously do not apply to the ministries. With this form of call, you're destroying this country's reputation in the world and leaving the possibility of various manipulations, so it's no wonder that on the global corruption perception index, we get a score of three-and-a-half and we share the 78th and 84th places together with Colombia, Peru, Lesota and some other countries. My particular question for Mr Cvetkovic is – will you do one good thing for this country and for the citizens of Serbia and repeal the decision to sell Telekom Srbija?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47836	The word is from Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47837	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, and a man who would have to do the jobs of the Minister of Agriculture, but who reduced himself to a physical worker, I mean Mr Dragin. Seven days ago, we discussed the Committee on the Protection of the Environment on the Annual Report and the State of the Environment in Serbia, and during that debate, one of the fellow MPs raised the issue of the swine fever epidemic in Srem. In the meantime, the problem has practically become an affair that we need to discuss. We do not like the idea of the Ministry and the Government to marginalize such a thing, because it is precisely in these anomalies of our system, in weaknesses, in maturity, sloppyness that recognize these fundamental deformations that then result from serious market disturbances, pulsism, demagogy, which have been followed by problems in the supply and production of milk. Namely, it's a pig farm in the Radins. It's a farm of 8,000 pigs. The problem of swine fever is, of course, something that follows that form of livestock farming. But what is inconceivable is the fact that a swine fever occurred on one of the most modern pigs' farms, that no one is responsible for such a thing, that the way to solve this problem is disastrous, and that the consequences far exceed the fate of a farm. What's this about? In the 21st century, in a country like ours, along with the laws that we have adopted, along with the institutions that exist, so from the Ministry of Agriculture, the regional secretariat dealing with agricultural matters, all the competent veterinary inspections and other inspections that operate at the level of local self-government, with the protection measures prescribed by law, it is impossible for swine fever to appear in organized production without someone being responsible for such a thing. A particular problem, I think, is that there is also room for the Home Office to operate, is the fact that the swine fever epidemic occurred at a time when we were practically 10 or 15 days from taking down the two-year moratorium, which prevented our cattlemen from exporting pork to the EU, and it was practically the only economic rescue for all those involved in organised production and livestock production in Serbia. What elements do we have in front of us, and what is it that the Ministry has to do and what does it keep quiet about? Instead of the nonsense it exposes us to every day, Minister Dragin would have to answer how is it possible for a swine fever to appear on Serbia's most organized farm, and to apply all the protection measures prescribed by law? Namely, all these animals have been vaccinated in accordance with the law and have been treated in accordance with the law and regulations adopted by parliament? Secondly, as it is possible not to conduct quality sampling, which is also mentioned by producers at the moment, of those animals that are sick, and that their destruction is done on the other side of Vojvodina, i.e. That the trucks from Sreme are transported to places behind Zrenjanin? It's like someone's goal is for the whole of Serbia to be infected and our agro-industry complex to be destroyed. I openly convey to you the suspicions of cattlemen in Srem, that it is, in fact, the result of great lobbying and ambition to destroy livestock production in that segment, so that the bofl that is then offered daily on the market continues to be imported uninterrupted. How is it possible to act effectively and protect the cereals market and cannot be done with the meat market? This roulette between the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance, who prescribes the levies and who makes the measures, no one can understand it anymore, and I think that an open question of responsibility is being raised. First, the Minister of Agriculture, and then along with him and all those people who were obliged to disable or act effectively. Even if this swine fever had appeared, it could have been isolated, and we had to make a lot more effort to help those in whom we invested ourselves for the past two years, to show up as exporters on the European market tomorrow. This way, the people we have guaranteed the European market, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the open border, because of the sleekness of the system and the next two years will be the hostages of this clay. We haven't received any adequate and high-quality answers from the Ministry, no one's spoken to these people, and I think the state has to act effectively. First, we must make every effort, and this is also a topic for the Committee on Agriculture, in order for the European Commission and the competent European institutions to make sure that this is a local problem first and that no general conclusions can be drawn from this local problem, which I think is an advance job that has been condemned, and then rigorous sanctions for those who have allowed such a thing. All those animals have their own charts. All these animals have a chip that speaks to the way we treat them. Who allowed these animals to be destroyed without conducting any investigation. You can't get any information today. We don't care if it's the Mitros farm from Srem, because Mitros took over the state, that firm went bankrupt, but that farm was treated differently. I also propose to the Agriculture Committee to deal with this issue, and we will insist on determining responsibility for something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47838	The word is from Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47839	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the respected chairman of Serbia's respected Serbian citizens, the NS parliamentary group today will practically address all individual producers in Serbia, in case some irregularities in the municipality of Topola could have a fatal impact on individual producers throughout Serbia. Namely, what's the problem? We ask the Minister of Finance whether it may be a mistake, or if it is a practice, if it continues with such solutions, individually with producers related to social giving, health insurance, and that it will be devastating for Serbian peasants, who are otherwise burdened with enormous burdens, and we all know that their products are below each level and that they are barely living. We ask the Ministry of Finance a question and we appeal and claim that an illegal and immoral process is under way for the citizens of Topola, and possibly Serbia, solutions for paying social insurance for individual members of the farmers' families for 2010 and 2009. It used to be a practice for a householder, or family community, to settle all tax obligations, and then for other family members to verify health books. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration are brutally changing such a decision and retroactively charging individual social security for each adult member of the family. As individual social security for 2010 amounts to about 23 000 dinars and for 2009 25 000 dinars, it is not difficult to calculate that the rural family will have to pay a fine of 250 000 dinars per year. We ask the question where it is and whether this practice, if it continues like this, will impose on the peasants to be so large and whether the state will be satisfied in this way, if the individual producers are burdened and the last dinar is taken from them. What especially stands here is how it is possible for individual producers to get individual solutions retroactively on December 1st, I have material proof of that, December 1st, for something from 2009. How is that possible? Is it possible that some two years are practically late, I guess these are the kind of solutions they should get at the beginning of the year, and they know what they're meeting, and maybe they'll decide to close the lock and sell it all out, and they won't get into this story with the state, because it's practically a total minus for them. So, we ask the Ministry of Finance, because we hope it's probably a mistake, it's possible, and unless it's urgent to consider something like this, because it's going to have a very devastating impact on individual producers and peasants. Remember, however, that individual producers feed this Serbia. In the end, I ask the Socially Responsible Government, what about the promises that people over 65 would verify the books for free, and that was one of the pre-election promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47840	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I have a question for the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government. On 28 November 2010, the flag day was marked in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. Although the only difference in the size of the flag is several inches shorter, although the laws of the Serbian state allow national councils to highlight the flag, the flag and the act of highlighting the flag also have too painful symbols for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On this occasion, Deputy President of Presevo Orhan Rexhepi said, and only the Pink Radio Television in the national diary on the same day and conveyed the statement of the following content: "I responsibly declare that we will celebrate in this same Presevo as the part of Albania's future". This is a statement that I believe all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have followed blood in the veins, a statement that reminds me of many times the scenarios that have been experienced in these areas so far, that is a statement that is the harshest violation of the Constitution, Article 8, in which it is prescribed that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. My question to the ministers Dacic and Markovic is: What will the state authorities in charge of preserving the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia do and react to such a separatist, anti-state and anti-constitutional statement by Presevo municipality officials? This question will be asked by ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in every place and on every occasion, until I get an answer that will clearly show that Orhan Rexhepi has been processed in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47842	The word has an MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47843	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, have already had the opportunity to hear the story of Telekom, or the preparation to sell Telekom, and it is an uncontestable fact whenever such jobs are at stake that there is a serious danger of abuse, i.e. from the possibility of selling individuals taking fat money for it. If that were true here, I would set an example, or a statement by Boris Tadic, as Minister of Telecommunications in 2000, which said it was for the sale of former Telekom that it was international corruption and there are enough four orders, according to Boris Tadic, to join Douglas Herd and Lambert Dini's political responsibilities in the 31 million 574 thousand 370 marks financial race. And he says – is it worth asking another question while still looking for answers to it already asked. I totally agree here with Boris Tadic and I'm asking him if he got these answers he asked to question whether there was corruption in the first sale of Telekom? Otherwise, at the time, Dr. Zarko Korac said that the practical sales of Telekom had saved the regime at the time. I agree with that too, and I'm afraid this current telecom sale will also be an attempt to save Telekom. Before it sells to Telekom, first of all, we have to come up with some facts to see what essential business we're selling? Is this really the problem that we are facing and that at one point will show that it is an extremely large crime? If you remember Mobi 63 was founded in 2006, it was registered with the Agency for Business Registers and, interestingly, the person who submitted the application for registration, said natural person, name and last name Mladjan Dinkić, unique home number, address Otto Župančić. Interestingly, Mobi 63 application teaches the face of Mladjan Dinkic. They say, the founders of the Republic of Serbia and Holden Hurst Holdin ltd, that I am not citing all this data, stakes, the unmoneyed roles of Serbia's 92.365,000 euros, Holden Hurst Holdin ltd. Non-money deposits 39.585,000 euros, nicely, a total of 132 million. Here I also own a contract on the establishment of a company, which lists these things related to the establishment of a new Mobi 63 and in Article 5, the total capital of the company 132m euros, of which the 1st state of Serbia's contribution of 92m, the 2nd total of 39,585,000. What's interesting about this? We asked the Business Registers Agency to give us Annexes 1 and 2. I don't know how many start-ups there have been in Serbia since 1989, but they know what contributions mean when businesses are founded, money capital, non-money capital. Let's just say, since 1989, I've had all the papers and all the changes that the company has suffered. Do you know what the Agency for Business Registers said? Contributions 1 and 2, 132 million, he said, have been found not to have these contributions. There's no contribution of 132 million that really exist. It's just amazing. This contract was confirmed in court, so we also asked the court to provide us with an answer whether there are contributions to the contract, because it's impossible to verify in court a contract without contributions, it's simply amazing, it's a falsification of the worst kind. Do you know what they say in court? The Treaty establishing the company Mobi 63, concluded between the Republic of Serbia and Holden Hurst Holdin ltd, based in the town of Limassol, and you seem to like Cyprus very much, certified before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, under 2nd and that number, is without the support of the approved photocopy of the contract. Is this possible? I'm asking the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to proceed with the investigation, because I'm afraid (President: Five minutes). ) and I will prove that, just to conclude, I will prove that this is a big scam, that it is a big con about Slaf, which is usually the one who bought a casino in Belgrade afterwards, in the former hotel Yugoslavia. (President: National MPs, six minutes. I'm asking the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to launch an investigation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47844	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups report for a word to exercise their right under Article 286? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives are answering for a word anymore, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Aleksandra Jankovic and Miroslav Markicevic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, in addition to the representative, Dragan Sutanovac, Minister of Defence, has also called for the meeting to be held: Sanja Misevic and Zoran Jevtic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Dragan Radulovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Lieutenant General Miloje Miletic, Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army, Brigadier General Sladjan Djordjevic, Head of the Department of Staff of Defence and Brigadier General Dobrivoje Veljković, Head of Human Resources of the Serbian Chief Staff. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to item 4-7 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the military, labour and material obligations, Proposal for a DECISION ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE OBLIGATION OF THE MINISTRY OF THE MINISTRY, PROPOSAL OF THE PROFESSION OF THE PROGRAMMES OR THE GOVERNMENTS ON THE USE OF MINES AND PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE SERVEMENTS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENTS AND THE REFERRED TO INSTRUMENTS (Common principled and uniform Search) of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 4, 5, 6 and 7 and before opening of the common position and Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time for debates by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the minority parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds; and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I also inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Konstantin Arsenovic, PUPS MP, MP Sasa Dujovic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Slobodan Samardzic, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, MP Vlajko Senic, MP group G 17 plus and MP Borislav Pelevic, MP group Advanced Serbia. In accordance with Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 192(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations, the Proposal for a decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military deadline, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Prohibitions or Restrictions of the Use of Mines, Mines of Surprises and Other Devices, amended and amended on 3 May 1996 (Protocol II amended and amended on 3 May 1996), annexed to the Convention on Prohibitions or Limits on the Use of Certain Types of Conventional Weapons, which may be considered to have excessive traumatic effects or to act without distinction as regards the objectives and the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Exchange of Means and Documentation. Before I ask whether defence minister Dragan Sutanovac wants a word, I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 90(2) and Article 87, that we will be working today after 1800 hours, and until the debate is concluded in a joint principle and uniform review of the agenda points that have just been opened. Does the representative of Proposer Dragan Sutanovac want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47845	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military is certainly a historic decision, which needs our military and our country to classify in order of modern and modern armies and states that have organised their army according to the best standards, systematized in the same way and standardised. Given that this is a historic decision often discussed in public, and when tradition and emotion are mixed, I will try to bring you closer to the historic concept of the Serbian army's formation to the Serbian Army, in which you will have the opportunity to see how the Serb army has developed and how we have come into the situation to make Serbia's Army today professionally. If we take into account the period from the coronation of the first Serbian King Stefan in 1217 to 1883, you will see that in that history we had professional members of the then army, as well as members of the People's Army. The professional army involved those boys who were escorted by leaders, as border guards, or as crews of fortifications. The people's army were peasants, who responded to the call for battle and, as a rule, brought equipment, clothing, food, sometimes even weapons before that battle. Both professional and members of the People's Army participated in the first and second Serbian uprising. 180 years ago, on May 6th 1830, in Pozarevec, Prince Milos formed the First Order of the Serbian Guard, the predecessor of today's guard. Twenty years later, the Military Academy was formed. I'm talking about a time when we haven't had a standing army yet, but just a professional and a people's army. After the military was modernised in Europe, according to Bonaparte, who first formed a standing army on January 15, 1883, the Law on the formation of an army with the reputation of Western developed countries was passed. It is the first legal act of an independent Serbian state to introduce a standing army with a regular military obligation and during that time a modern organisation. I also want to point out at that time, if there were more male children in the family, one of these guys wasn't obliged to serve the army, he was taking care of the family. The standing army has been experiencing its peak right in the First Serbian War, since the wings were in force – the Serb is happy to go into soldiers. After 1918, Serbia entered its statehood into the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the SFRY, the SRJ and the SCG, hence, and the Serbian Army is pouring into these armies, as you know, experiencing its Renaissance in the 1980s as JNA. Just in the 1980s, for the first time in the JNA, Contractors also appear, which practically begins a crawling cycle of professionalization of the then military, because for the first time we have people who are under contract in the Serbian Army in certain places that require special skills, and these skills are today more demanding in the 21st century. At the time, a winged woman – a Serb is happy to go into the soldiers, gets a sequel, so that in the 1990s we have exactly an erosion of military service, which in that period is practically becoming a tradition. In 2003, a decision was made to object to conscience and since then the possibility of civil service was opened, between 2003 and today, civilians served an army of about 90,000 young people. You should know that even one of the questions in the European Union questionnaire, concerning our further European integration, is precisely the question of whether there is an objection of conscience in our military and it is important to say that professionalisation is practically and that this thing is finally being put on edge and Serbia will have a professional army, or the military will serve and only those who want to be trained. At the same time, in line with modern needs, challenges, risks and threats, a strategic decision is made to join the final professionalisation of the Serbia-Montenegro Army, with the end date of 31.12.2010. Unfortunately, 2004, 2005 and 2006 were disastrous years for the defence system, as Serbia-Montenegro's military at that very age, without any serious analysis, was reduced from 75,000 to about 35,000, through various affairs and extraordinary events, the military's reputation has collapsed again. In May 2007, when the defence ministry joined the government of the Republic of Serbia after many years, the defence ministry welcomed some 35,000 members and about 2.7 billion dinars of debt. Meanwhile, in line with the projected date of the completion of the professionalisation process, we have launched the most comprehensive reforms in the defence system, and we are convinced in our society as well. First of all, I would like to stress that during this period we have adopted all strategic, legislative and sublegal acts, which has created a legal basis for the continuation of reforms and for the completion of the process of professionalisation. We have completed the process of organisational and mobilization change of the Serbian Army, which today is standardised according to the most modern principles. We have completed the process of reforming military education, which will soon have a fourth degree of education, with respect to the times when other ministries were educated in our Military Academy. Also, for the first time on the basis of modern currents and needs, we have entered the first generation of cadets at our military academy, and in September for the first time in our history, right in front of the home where we are, we will have the opportunity to welcome the first women officers who have completed our military academy. We have completed the process of reforming military health and have placed certain capacities in the function of Serbia's citizens' health. For the first time in history, we have formed a Military Medical School, which today schools a second generation of cadets. I also hope that in four years before this house, the first medical officers will be welcomed. In the coming months, we will form a defense university, as a decade-long need of a defense system. With the Law on VoA and VBA, we have arranged the intelligence and security sector of the Ministry of Defence in accordance with the most modern flows and aspirations, and in the coming months we will round up civil and democratic control by setting up a general inspector of the service. In the field of international co-operation, perhaps the biggest successes, given that at this point, the Ministry of Defence is co-operating with more than 50 states, and we have signed international agreements with 40 states. I personally signed 20 agreements in three and a half years. Serbia's military, the Ministry of Defence, as well as the state of Serbia have regained reputation among the armies of other countries, so in recent years in Serbia for the first time in our ministry, we have had the opportunity to host the defence ministers of China, Brazil, as well as US Vice-President Prime Minister Norway, a large number of foreign ministers and defence ministers. Certainly the greatest recognition for the reforms that we are conducting has come from those most professional, who have been in Belgrade and with whom I had the opportunity to speak personally, and these are the chiefs of general staff of China, the Russian army and the United States. As part of the reform, the Serbian Army faced a very poorly-led personnel policy in the previous period. What does that mean? It means we had in one period the number of supporters, lieutenants and captains almost identical to the number of colonels. We will agree that this personnel policy is unsustainable and we have made an effort to bring almost perfection after the systematicisation and organisational mobilization changes. I would also like to point out that, as part of the defence ministry's reform, we have prepared all legal acts for the introduction of religious service into our army, putting ourselves in line for the most modern countries in the world, and at the same time, in accordance with our tradition, we are introducing military priests. It's about traditional churches and religious communities that, by some proportion, will have their own representatives in our army. I believe the question will be asked – why professionalization, what does it bring and what does it lead to? In addition to the desire and aspirations of the great majority of citizens, as well as the fulfillment of the promises we made before 2000, I would like to say that, first of all, a professional soldier is a soldier who is voluntarily in the armed forces of our army, which is also more motivated than he who is under obligation. A professional soldier is more mature, more trained, more responsible and more willing to fulfill all the missions and tasks defined by the laws. The question arises – what are the economic consequences of professionalisation for our society and defence system? Considering that a professional soldier is only trained once, and later perfected, that cheaper accommodation facilities, lower food costs, shoes, clothes, lower training costs, the economic calculation shows that the professional soldier is slightly more expensive than the recruiting soldier, but also more useful. That the German authorities are also showing that they are about to move forward in the process of professionalising the German army. A major debate is being held in Austria about the start of the professionalisation process, but I would like to stress that the Chief of Staff, General Makarov, also said in an interview with the "Politice" that the professional army is the best military. Given that opponents of public professionalisation have launched a campaign against professionalisation in one way for us, speaking of the operational abilities of our army, I want to stress as a first you know, that all armies in the environment are already professionalized. Secondly, the formational number of members of the Serbian Army has increased compared to 2007, but now with a fully professional composition that we will agree on is more quality than recruiting. If we compare the numerous states of our army with the numerous states of other armies compared to the number of inhabitants, we will see that we have about half as much as the number of our population, which is more than the overall environment, practically more than Germany, France, Italy, we will agree that we have a percentage less than Greeks and Turks, but they have different needs and different aspirations. In the modern world, the operational capabilities of an army are not measured in pieces and kilograms. If we were right to speak best about the reform that is being carried out right in the Russian army, where from 355,000 practically to 150,000, then 205,000 will have fewer Russian armies when their reform is completed, and in Germany the reforms that are being carried out mean that the military will be reduced by about 80,000 professional members. In the end, I would like to stress that the best assessment of the work of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army is precisely given by citizens of Serbia, who give more and more confidence from day to day, but also respect for Serbia's military. The result of the reform we are conducting is most evident through the return of trust in Serbia's Army, which today is at an extremely high level. I'll remind you that for enrolment in our military academy, we have more than five candidates in one vacant place, which has no university in Serbia. Someone will say it – it's because they have a guaranteed job. I'll remind you that they've had a guaranteed job before, both 2001 and 2003 and 2005 and 2007, that you're not wasting your time. If we look at the results of the VMA registration contest, you'll see that we have over 10 candidates in one vacant place. What is, in fact, the most important thing for the professionalisation process is that today we have an average of four candidates in the vacant place for members of the professional army, including 10 candidates in some parts of Serbia. I am using this opportunity to thank all members of the colleges of ministers who have worked hard to achieve these results, and I would especially like to thank the Chief of Staff, Lieutenant General Milo Miletic, his associates, the General Staff and all Serbian military members, who have shown by example that he can also be a professional in the armed forces. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge you to be professionals in the Voting Day, to support the bill yourself, to support all those members of Serbia's army who are in the army today and all those who want to be tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47846	Does the word of the Defence and Security Committee rapporteur, MP Dusan Bajatovic, deputy chairman of the Committee, want? No, I don't. ) Does the President of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? MP Cedomir Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47847	Madam Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, fellow MPs, of course, we will be very pleased to vote in favour of this law, which practically exceeds those common relations and borders that exist here in parliament. If we're in something in life the same is, in fact, the similarity that arises the moment we send our children into the army, when the army knocks on our doors, when we put on a uniform, then all the differences fall before us. When expectations are set before the military, these expectations are not partyal, they are social and we can only regret that we have not passed this law before. It is true, Mr. Minister, that the entire climate has changed in the military and everything that's been following the army for the last three years. It's changed in a positive way and it doesn't take too many words since it's always talked about what's the problem, right, and you've been more than specific about all of what's positive. First problem, Mr. Minister, we don't have civilian and democratic control of the army. In fact, this parliament has not formed a committee to deal with the matter. I think it's important to both you and the Assembly. For what? Not because of routine and everyday jobs. The moment a problem arises, the moment an additional argument is needed, the military, the defence system, the Ministry, the government remains denied the authority of parliament which is incompetent in one such business. If we are talking about reforming the country's defence system, then the reform also obliges other institutions, not just the government, the Ministry or the General Staff. What about the committee that would monitor the work of the government, the ministry and the general staff here in parliament? We don't have it, and it's a constitutional obligation that we haven't carried out, but we have defined for ourselves the deadlines by extending them several years in advance. That's the first problem, very serious. The second problem I want to talk to you about, you mentioned situations where the military was a victim of politics, the military was always a victim of bad politics. The situations in which society has identified itself with the military are, in fact, always situations where either we are no longer afraid of the military or the military for some of the jobs that we consider to be socially beneficial. At this point in time, the jobs in which the military is engaged and which are of general benefit are commercial affairs, economic affairs, the affairs of our defence industry, which are also carried out completely past, I would not say control, but any knowledge of us here in parliament. These are also some companies owned by this country and their work needs to be regulated by laws, allowing those who are competent to be referred to all these jobs, in order to establish relations that are characteristic of relations in each modern country. The main problem is the political problem, Mr. Sutanovac. When you talk about the architecture of the new Serbian army, you are actually talking about the architecture established by NATO, and today the system and that architecture, of course, are being agreed by those who were, for example, historic opponents of NATO. What Russia is doing today is actually respecting the economic necessity it has always respected and based its principles on a collective security system, characteristic of Western Europe, the United States and Canada. So we're interested, Mr. Sutanovac, how can we reform the army and establish relations that are correct and acceptable to us while our policy remains in the vacuum? The country's top commander, the country's president, during a visit to Montenegro, said it is in the interest of Serbia itself to join NATO, that we are more than looking forward to BiH joining NATO. Well, how can that be good for Montenegro in NATO, BiH in NATO, and we continue to tabulate the NATO issue here? Self-proclaimed neutrality policy is a policy without perspective. If we're talking about the role of the army in the 21st century, then that army must be mobile, it must be ready for low-intensity conflicts, that's how all the great armies are prepared and must be in partnership with others. We're on NATO. The arguments used against NATO are politics, not serious, not political. This society in NATO can count on the same status as any other society and country that has been identified for that type of alliance. President Tadic's vote at the NATO leader's summit is worth as much as Barack Obama's vote. That's not the case at NIS. In NIS, the voice of Putin is worth a little more than Tadic. We are interested in what is happening with this issue -- when we will leave this wrong continuity and this one sentence of Resolution, which is in fact a materialisation of the senselessness that this country formulated in 2007, trying to escape from itself in the Kosovo problem. We want this issue to be opened because we believe that through the process of approaching NATO, this society will change faster, accepting some of the criteria and standards that come from the Partnership for Peace. I thought we could figure out today that the results are positive. There is no argument that could be interpreted as a compromise of our participation in the Partnership for Peace. If the results are good, why don't we go one step further? If there are political obstacles, what are these? If there are obstacles to our public, then we must explain to society why it is in his interest. I must say that today NATO is actually a guarantee that there will be no more war in this country. We live in a place where everything is relative. This history that you started by citing our rulers and armies and its foundations is the history of our constant conflicts. The waters were completely confusing. When we look at today, it is clear that the only thing that is certain is that here in the Balkans we can only kill each other. If Bulgaria is in NATO, Romania is in NATO, Montenegro is in NATO, Macedonia is ahead of NATO, if Bosnia is heading that way, then Serbia should move on. It's a political obligation for the government, not for the military. The army did their job. There is no difference in the architecture of our army and the architecture of any normal army in the world anymore. Even those who are not in NATO accept it. How much protests are in Russia today, it is being striked for the defence minister's intention to reform it. Three thousand soldiers in peace in Russia die in chaos there from an unreformed defence system. It's a good thing we stepped out of it. The professional army is based on someone's personal ambition to be a soldier. Our role is to restore to the world what we owe. For the past 15 years, our people have been guarded by soldiers from other countries in BiH, Croatia, Kosovo. Remember March 2004. Our army didn't gather Serbs in Kosovo, it couldn't do it, it was done by UN soldiers. Our army should participate openly in peace missions and all those peace missions that are real, for which there is a need. We have our representative in Haiti. All right, if it's a UN mission, if there's a need for us, we don't mind. It is known where our professional soldiers are today who have professional experience. Where world peace and world order are most threatened. That's Afghanistan at the moment. There's the UN, there's the whole world. In 2003, we ran a policy that went that way. We all have families and children. When we talk about the professional army, when we talk about people who are committed to this job, they need to open up a perspective. Now, if we stay in the loop, why did we change the army, why are we establishing professionalism? They're supposed to be doing that job. We have to become part of a wider defense system and the one we naturally gravitate to, and we'd like to break that taboo. It's not a subject for generals. As they say in the army, put your hat on so you don't come up with something and carry out the order of the state. We saw how the army that was on paper was respectable when it had bad political leadership. We need a new policy now. We're getting a new army, and we need a new policy. Without a new policy with torture, without clear views of NATO's respect outside Serbia, and with shame here in Serbia, we will not reach those positions we could be in. It's something we need to talk about together. It's your political obligation. Of course it can't be done by the defence minister in one government, that it must be the government's policy, but it should finally become a topic in our public. We have to ask ourselves these questions and answer them in a normal way, not by antagonising society, by dividing it further, but by taking responsibility, and by saying when this country was perspective and when it was developing and when it failed. Whenever we were alone, we fell apart. When we were in alliances, we made progress. Through the process of transforming the military, on the standards on which it was done, it is clear that the belief that goes into NATO's contribution is absolutely justified from the point of view of this society's interest, from the point of view of the parents. The professionalization of the military is due to the acceptance of standards that someone has previously defined, discovered and adopted. That's a fact. We will no longer fear for our children, we will not think that in some barracks of hundreds of years ago, as they endure far from home, we will not be chasing along sections of a relationship. All right. We solved that problem. We've solved it by respecting some of the brains that previously defined a model that is useful to us. Let's go further and get a new army and a new policy, a new political leadership that will make it clear – we want to join NATO. It's a process that lasts. It is also a political shortcut for implementing those reforms that we need. With the partnership that we are building on these foundations, we will be able to solve some other problems. Just because of NATO integration, Croatia has not been stopped in the Eurointegration process due to the Gotovina case. That's all it's about, and that's what it's about. I'm sorry, when you share trouble with someone, then you're his real partner, but taping your shoulders and respecting each other won't be too much use. Finally, it wasn't directed against Russia either. Absolutely not. If other countries that are much closer from a security point of view are more interesting to Russia today in the NATO alliance, why would they tie their hands to me in the way that they do today, with the argument that NATO bombed us and that it is confrontational with Russia? There is a political belief that this country should build its integrity by defining one clearly not, and showing its backbone to confrontation with the world because of some national interest. I think it's deeply wrong if we do something like that on NATO. We can do that on other questions. We can explain the need for a reform of the country's political system that would be in line with the political character of this country. We should not turn Serbia upside down in the process of European integration by making Norway from Serbia, but on the subject of NATO, we must not succumb to populistism and we must courageously enter that area. I'm sure if we do that, we'll be a political generation that will stabilise lasting peace, because that peace will not rest on our political coalition, in the strength of our parties, but on a system that will be deeply integrated in the order we belong to, the world to which we are headed. Yugoslavia fell apart in the '90s because she was alone, so she fell apart. Other societies that have gravitated towards alliances and breadths... The Czech Republic separated in a normal way because they both had a perspective. It's impossible today. Today, when our presidents meet me, we can only ask the question of the senselessness that destroyed our 20 years of life, which destroyed so many human lives, so much material damage that has created of us, which has made of us the people who are the contemporaries of the ruins of the world that have been created before us. We enter the 21st century as we sewed into the 20th with a cane and a cane. All right. Now let's go one step further. We're making a bar, we're exporting it to Iraq. This country made planes 50 years ago that impressed the whole world. Can we now agree never to make such mistakes again? The political system, the political framework, NATO in the Constitution, NATO in the government and on these grounds, we can then say that these positive results will only be part of a positive process that must not be stopped. Now there's a ball on the political field, not on the field of soldiers, but on the field of politicians, and we expect you to do that, to update these topics. First in the public through meeting with citizens, and then it is much easier to do so here in parliament, because those who today oppose parliament do so exclusively for demagogue reasons precisely because they count on resistance in society itself. If we face this society, if we give it a clear picture of what we're seeing right now, what we want to create, I think the citizens will accept it. That's what all the other societies did. If I can go to Montenegro, if the Serbs can go to Bosnia, if the Macedonians can, I don't think our society is incompetent. On the contrary, I think people here will be much more capable. Our army changed dynamically the moment a model was established that opened up the possibility of showing its potential. That's a fact. As long as they were hostages, those '90s paws, our army seemed tragic. The moment the perspective was opened, the moment they were able to go to the world, when they started going to the academys in America, there was another profile of our soldier, and we don't have to make any sense of it anymore. We're voting for these laws, but we're also looking for political reforms. The army has done its part, but an army without politics cannot be a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47848	14 minutes and 55 seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47849	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I will talk about these first two laws primarily. There are two documents ahead of us, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligations and the Government's decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military deadline, which for the first time in this form is addressed to the Serbian Parliament, and a voluntary military service with arms is being introduced. I'd just like to make a brief comment on these two documents. The Government's decision is the basis for proposing amendments to the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligations and the PUPS to consider the amendments proposed in accordance with the decision and to provide legal regulation and resolution of the issue. A space was created so that, without special amendments, this law could be applied in case the country's security situation would require the government to put a decision out of force, as the decision does not end but, for an indefinite period of time, suspends the obligation to serve the military term. When it comes to the decision, it's clear, but I think the third point of view is imprecise. I will remind you that it is – referring to the military service in the Serbian Army since 1 January 2011 will be done on the principle of volunteering in accordance with the law. This attitude leads to the possibility of voluntary military service in the army without weapons and in civil society. I don't believe such volunteers will be, but hypothetically speaking, this attitude allows it. It can be concluded from the outset that there are no objections to the PUPS on the content of the decision and the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on military and material obligations. We haven't even submitted any amendments, and we'll support them. It's a good thing recruits who volunteer to serve military time with weapons will be the base for filling the army with professional soldiers. This service enables future candidates to become acquainted with military life and thus can make a realistic decision whether or not such a life suits them. The need for professionalisation has existed for many years, mostly on more significant duties. However, this decision and this law only introduces a professional army, with voluntary use of weapons. Mr. Minister, I've listened very carefully to your explanation and that sounds nice at first sight, okay, but that's one face of the medal, but the question is, what's the matter with the face, what's hidden between the lines? So what I'm saying is that in addition to the positive sides that were presented in this presentation of yours, I think it would be good if at least in the shortest lines it were said and what the flaws of this solution were. It's safe to have them. It's not ideal and nothing can be ideal. This would make them more realistic and better informed the public that such a solution is better than the existing one. We can talk about the army both black and white, depending on how anyone experiences and has a goal. We can put our children in cages, pet them and watch them, but I don't think it's any use to them. I am sure that at least 90% of the people who served the army, whatever it was, and I believe that many of the MPs present are happy to remember military life. This proves that the people's saying is not true, that the devil wanted to be all but apprentices and soldiers. The fact is that military life is difficult and stressful, that members of the army are daily exposed to stressful and risky situations. However, military service has always played a positive role, both for the state and for the formation of a person. In addition to training to defend the country, at first there was descriptiveness, training for new occupations, until the socialization of personalities and the creation of collective responsibility, creating and understanding of the importance and trust in your fellow on the left and right, but both ahead and behind you. In carrying out certain tasks, the point is that today in the military you can and you have to understand that as an individual, you are nothing. An individual does not make a system, but that only a collective spirit has a chance of success. The army was always with the people and jumped to help whenever it was necessary. It was mostly in critical situations. It's sad to hear today that the military can't help in critical situations, say, when floods and earthquakes are. It is also nice to hear a statement from the people, that in the recovery of the earthquake in the King, they had the greatest aid of 500 soldiers, and only if there were at least 1,000 or 2000. These two documents, as I understand it, are causing a series of dilemmas, including disagreements regarding violations of the country's defence capabilities. Why? Because I'm sure of a few facts, and there must be a lot more. It is, firstly, that the security situation in both the country and the environment is such that it does not allow us great relaxation or guarantees peace. Secondly, no one in the environment, nor in Europe wants to see Serbia as a significant factor in the Balkans in terms of power to defend its sovereignty. Thirdly, one who is not ready and able to defend his country, his own doorstep, at least a levelling opponent, cannot expect his neighbors to come to his aid. Fourth, one who doesn't love his army must be ready to kiss an alien boot. If this and a lot of things are still in mind, I believe that the defence minister, the government, and this parliament, too, is taking on a huge historical responsibility when it comes to building the country's defence system. I'm afraid, and tones I'd like, that future generations of this responsibility will have no use if they're put into a situation that they can't defend their vital interests or their enemies whose potentials are much less than ours. I can accept the fact that our country cannot fund a larger army. That's what we need to tell this people and this Parliament, and then we need to find a solution. He's saying that a professional army is cheaper just doesn't stand. It's economically easy to prove, it can be cheaper if you pay it like we're paying now. The 200-euro salary per professional soldier is below each level, but it cannot be higher in these conditions, given that the major has 400 euros, and where the officers are etc. Let us put aside our tradition that we are a peaceful people, that we have never waged conquerive wars, etc., but it is an irrefutable fact that we create a series of generations that will not be trained, and thus not motivated if we have to defend our country tomorrow. Of an army numbering 10,000 professionals, which is an objective maximum that this country can withstand in the current conditions, we cannot compare ourselves with large countries. So, of these 10,000 professionals, at least 30% will be on some extra duty -- chefs, drivers, mechanics, binders, guards. So, no fighters. With the engagement of the so-called so-called We can't expect to stand up to anyone. In fact, it should be said that we only have one division of medium size and about five brigades placed in dozens of smaller locations, making it even more powerless. There's a training problem here. I can't even figure out how to perform actual and united exercises, command-command wars and everything that belongs to training and preparation of task units. We cannot accept the fact that participation in the exercises of multinational forces with a dozen soldiers, with one company, one water, does this to some significant training of military personnel to carry out strategic goals and tasks when it comes to defending the country. I accept the fact that I may be conservative in some ways, but I'm trying to understand and follow some trends. However, I ask the question – have there been any changes in the world at global, local level, that pleases us to have this kind of relationship with the security of the country? It's not a criticism of professionalization. I'm petting her in that segment where it's really necessary. But it is a criticism of the general preparation of the people for the defence of the country. I don't think the security situation is like that. I wouldn't explain it now. It's just enough to remind you, when the major global economic crisis occurred, it seems that they were mainly the result of major wars. That doesn't mean there won't be any in the future. Besides, I have to say, I don't understand that in our country, and in addition to what I said in advance, we have more prisoners than the number of professional soldiers. Not to mention the number of private security personnel, mostly formed by the agency. Also, I don't understand the many relationships of the elders in terms of military and professional composition. I don't know him exactly, but he's moving at least two to one. I don't think there's a relationship like that anywhere. Now I'm very interested, to tell you the truth, to see how much of the military budget for 2011 is going to be smaller than in 2010? These are some of my dilemmas when it comes to relationships, and that's why I said at first, that it would be good to have it in front of this Parliament, if it were to be in closed form, to come out with an analysis of the negative consequences of such an army organisation, especially on a number of sizes. As for points 6 and 7, we have no objections. We'll also support it. First of all, I think it's humane to support all those initiatives aimed at banning the use of weapons to inflict mass injuries and kill people. Any such initiative is good. I wish there was no weapon at all and no weapons anywhere in the world. But it won't be soon. In that sense, I'm finishing my presentation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47850	Minister Sutanovac has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47851	I thank Ambassador Arsenovic. I didn't understand whether you support or criticize, but I'll say a few things. Given that often the argument used by individuals in the public speaks about who will educate us young people and who will form us people who will not serve the army now, so they will be left to society in a different way. Then the question arises -- who formed for us ladies sitting in parliament today, who also did not serve the military deadline and today are MPs in the Serbian Parliament? Is it possible to believe that only those who have served a military term deserve to be in the Serbian Parliament or to decide on vitals, related to this state and this society? I think that this kind of attitude towards the military, which represents in a certain way in that criminal correctional home system, in order to learn something and punish someone long or long ago. The fact is, this is a historical responsibility and we're very aware of it. It's not true there are 10,000 professionals. It is true that there will be about 27,000 people in uniform. To explain to you now, and I can see that even those experienced in the matter of the military don't know that. Bosnia and Herzegovina has 0.21% of its population in armed forces, that's about 9,000; the Republic of Albania - 0.37%, that's about 13.500; Macedonia - 0.38%, that's 7.900; Serbia - 0.5%; that's 36,000; Romania - 0.4% of its population, that's 90,000; Romania is, as you know, more than Serbia; the Republic of Hungary - 0.20%, which is around 24.500; the Republic of Croatia - 0.42%, which is 18.500 and the Republic of Bulgaria, which is currently to slightly more than 0.5%, reduces its numbering state, so it will be smaller than Serbia. So, talking about a number of states and the fact that our defense system is compromised, we'd have to know who's jeopardizing us. In order for someone to attack you with the idea of defeating you, some military documents say they should have a minimum of three times as many armies and more efficiencies as you do. Two and even three countries to gather in the environment don't have that. So, talking about a number of states, we can certainly talk about how we need 70, 100, or 200 thousand soldiers, but I really don't think it's meaningful first, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it's hard to pay our budget, or our economy. It is incorrect that the Serbian Army cannot meet all requirements defined by the military law. So you need to know that we participate in all the elementary disasters with citizenship and help citizens, as you said in the King, so that the kind of story you said just doesn't stand. I want to relate to a discussion about civilian control. Indeed, with the position I am in, I can't, nor want to influence the work of Parliament, but I think there is a speech, if I understand correctly, that a defense committee is being formed here, to separate the defense committee and the security committee, to be special committees, as it is in the world, and, believe me, we're waiting for it. That, unfortunately, is not up to us, but on the other hand, what is a civilian democratic control that depends on us, which is setting up a general inspector in our military, security and intelligence services, we will do so think by the end of the year, and thus we will practically round up that system regarding civilian control, which concerns us. The fact is that lately we've been making extremely big results on the defence industry, making big steps, and I wish it were true that Serbia is producing a plane today, which it did 40 years ago. Serbia did not produce a plane 40 years ago, the plane was produced mostly outside Serbia's borders in the former Yugoslavia. We haven't had those capacities in years, it's something we're really proud of because we really find ourselves on a map of countries that produce such a thing as a plane is extremely important. We are aware that this is not a priority in our work, but we are also aware that you would not receive a salary if the economy did not work, nor would the military budget be what it would be if the economy did not work and then we are trying to help and it seems to me that in one very, very good way we are helping our defence and industry, and thus filling the budget and reducing the external trade deficit. As you know, in this year we increased exports, like the Republic, by 21% compared to last year and that's something that's really very good. What I didn't mention as part of the reform because I think it might not be a matter of reform, and it's probably a matter of reforming the system of values, which is the participation of pension missions, it's an extremely important segment of our work, defined by the Military Act. I must say that since 2007, when we had a presence in three peacekeeping missions, we have so far increased this practically twice, we will have six and we will go one step ahead, towards EU integration, by offering to sign a security agreement with the EU, on which we will have the opportunity to participate for the first time in our history in EU peacekeeping missions. Of course, this participation is symbolic at the moment. What's important is to say, both we at the Ministry and the General Staff are aware that we have capacities significantly higher, but we have to create certain conditions and these conditions are slowly being created, and I really believe that our military will really be a very important factor in world security, world peace, and that's something that has been highlighted as one of the best flows of our army in the past, given that this country, when I say this, I mean that great state, had the greatest external political capacity right at the time when our army with the greatest presence was positioned in Sinai. It's something we're about to do. It's something that makes the army professional. As you know, a recruit soldier cannot go on a peace mission, peace missions are based solely on volunteering, and now we have for the first time a soldier who, historically, is not even aware that he is part of our history has entered history as the first professional member of the Serbian Army to participate in a peacekeeping mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47852	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, let me inform you that part of today's session, starting from just five to ten minutes ago, will be followed by a group of students from the House of the National Assembly: Viola Apro, Marijana Bajin, Agnes Baci, Adrein Balog, Gelert Barna, Saboc Boroš Djevi, Srdjan Bunjevac, Agnes Benak, Timea Benak, Maja Bešlin, Gabor Berec, Arpad Biro, Renata Celer, Diana Čorba, Igor Deak, Zoltana Doci, Magdana Fazekaš, Anasija Feher, Henrita Fenjveši, Boglarka Franko, Valentin Gera Žiroš, Mirjana Halgasev, Tamor Deak, Zaltan Dok, Magdana Fazekaš, Magdana Fažak, Anstažilić, Anstazija Koran Mužiljik, Zavić, Zahrjikić, Zahrić, Zahrjiktaj, Zaktaj, Zaktaj, Zaktić, Zaktić, Zaktaj, Priktaj, Prikt, Priktaj, Zaktrštić Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the People's Messengers to welcome them together. The word is made by the People's Messenger Pastor Balint. Excuse me, MP, MP Cedomir Jovanovic has come forward for the replica. In order to be able to give a word to MP Cedomir Jovanovic to use the right to reply, I will have to delete the list of registered speakers, because there are only places for five names, so I will ask MP Pastor Balint to register again, the moment that his right to the replica is used by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47853	Just a little bit about military control and the role of parliament. I think it's very important and that this committee, that only by some administrative automation is not now established, because the Assembly, i.e. It was easier for the ruling majority to prolong it for some future assembly, so that there would be no rocking and still opening up some staff issues, but from the point of view of the Ministry and the military it is very important that we have this committee. Because within that committee, we can run some processes without which the Ministry or the military cannot be effective enough. For example, from the discussion, there are obviously some dilemmas, it's not controversial. The problem is if we don't answer them institutionally. We can, here in Parliament, as part of the Defence Committee, open the issue of the economic benefits of military professionalization. To answer the question of perspective, which stems from such an organized army, to point to some, but argued, not at the level of policy statements, to say why it's good. In the 21st century, the military can't function the way it worked 50 years ago, as the Assembly can't function, and cars aren't like they were 50 years ago. We need to adapt the format to our needs and character of the time we live in. That's why the professional army is what's good. The second step is the issue of NATO, because we believe that this society can further develop and that the military plays that role in every normal country. So, being the bearer of technical development, a whole series of technologies first perfectes itself within military institutes, military schools, military industries, and we're interested in what's going on. We have a budget debate for 2011. We don't have information to ask a question, what happens to the military industry, and what happens if we spend more money on the military industry than we do on another sector, what if we put that money out for foreign investors, who come and make our boards into municipalities, invest in the military industry. We can't talk about it without argument. I suggest you, as vice president of the ruling party, not as defence minister, initiate the formation of a committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47854	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47855	It's the absolute interest of all of us, and of us sitting in the ministry, in the military, the public and the citizens, and I suppose Parliament, and I really appeal, at a time when I was chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, we had a Defence Committee, and the military was on a federal level. Today we have a Defence and Security Committee, which obviously does not deal in an adequate way, I will not say, competent, in connection with the defence system, and this system is, as you said, one of the most complex systems in the world that exist within the government. I'd like a certain session to be scheduled to present to you what's been done in the reform system. I'm convinced that, unfortunately, a large part of the army doesn't know all that. So, we do information, and many people are not familiar with what's done, and you should know. The fact is, hardly anyone in parliament, from any committee, knows what the structure of the defence budget is, or the Ministry of Defence at this point, and it is such that it is really worrying. We often have a situation in the media that certain experts, who are experts in millimetres, 105, 102, don't know how to read our budget, and it's now the fault of all of us, of us who are in the ministry, but also of Parliament and of our society. My idea is, I've said it many times that if there's a chance that the Committee's session could be scheduled, we could come and give a presentation, so you could say what you like and what you don't like. I just said here that a few years ago, we had the same number of lieutenants, lieutenants and captains as many colonels. Do you have any idea what that means for the system? Today we've made a nice human pyramid that's falling, most of all there are those who are the smallest in rank, and of course it's for those who don't understand it right now that's not some big news, but if I tell you it's the most difficult thing to do in the system, believe me, it should express one respect. On the other hand, budget costs, there are a few questions in the world that those who control you, the defense system, ask you. First, how much you have to participate in the gross domestic product, secondly, what your cost structure is and thirdly what your human pyramid is like. Organisation, organisational changes according to the standard we have said are understood, and in the 21st century, all armies want to be standardised, to be interoperability with NATO standards, whether someone likes it or not, it's simply a standard that's accepted in the world as the best. Unfortunately, for these three and a half years, I've come to parliament several times, we've never opened a debate on the subject and I think it would be easier for us, and the fact is that the defence industry is not part of the ministry. So we're helping the defence industry, we don't have the budgets to raise the defence industry, and we don't have the money to grant subsidies. It's often thought that we now have some money and if someone strikes somewhere, we can give them subsidies in a way that pays them. What does that mean? That means endangering the defense system. So, three years ago, we had a meeting with the directors of the defence industry and the unions, where they told us the situation was critical and that if we didn't buy all their production, they would fail. I asked, I'm sorry, so our budget then becomes a boiler that just goes through the money and goes to you? What do we need a budget for, what do we need an army to pay you right now? Then we sat down, made a serious plan within the Ministry with the support of the military, with the support of all those who were educated at our Military Academys during the 1980s, and today we train officers from those countries, made contracts worthy of world respect. We have a situation that in certain factories now we have to invest, equip them, so we can produce them even more, because there is an even greater demand for our products, which I believe is not, in any other branch, which deals with industry or agriculture. We want to cooperate, and we are interested, believe me, all of us who are in the system is interested in having you as much as possible, because there's nothing hidden in that situation, and then we demystify everyone who thinks today that the army is some closed, dark forest, where something that nobody knows is happening, that there's no information available, and I'm telling you that that's not the situation. If you want to demystify it in the right way, we are ready, whenever you want meetings and information, and visit the military and present what has been done and what is reform in general, what is abroad, what is the reform in the environment, not to talk about some levels that are emotional, which are party, day-political. We are talking about serious things that lead one very important part of our country towards serious reform, which I am sure the citizens of Serbia support.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47856	The word is from Ambassador Pastor Balint.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47857	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Chief of Staff, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will be very happy and truly...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47858	Please, People's Messenger, don't throw away or interfere with the debate and I warn you that's the reason for the warning. Now you keep throwing and disrupting the session and please don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47859	We will gladly and sincerely support the motion for a decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military term in the voting day. I am the happiest, and I must say honestly, when we are discussing decisions or laws in the National Assembly that we can unreservedly support, when we should not have any dilemmas, issues, but really, honestly, we can gladly vote in favour of a motion for a decision or a law. That's the decision. Now I could quote you a few sentences from the SVM program, and that's what I'm going to do because those sentences almost fully have the same content as the explanation of your motion for a decision. So, for 16 years, since SVM exists, we've been talking about believing that in today's Europe, which slowly degrades borders and is gradually uniting, it's unwarranted to maintain one of these numbers, compared to the population of the country, a pre-remended army. Instead, it is necessary to form a smaller, but technically well-equipped, voluntary, organised professional army, which best fits NATO's organisation. The idea of the professional army is justified because it represents a much smaller burden for the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. would mean less burden for the citizens, while at the same time, thanks to the organisation, equipment and professionalism, it could provide full protection for our country. It's in our party's program, and we're very excited about what it says in the motion for a decision. So this decision is absolutely in the trend of modern currents and is not reckless at all. We are the last country in the area of the former Yugoslavia to introduce a professional army. Such a military obligation exists in certain countries of Europe, for example in Russia, but also in Germany, but we believe that for the purposes of the Republic of Serbia, the professional army is much more adequate for those reasons. We know that less and less people want to spend some time in the military. That's how it was in the early 1990s. Serbia cannot be compared to either Germany or Greece, nor with any other countries of Europe or the EU that today have an army that is not professionalised because these countries did not have war events during their close pasts. I also have to say that I know about the song "I'd love to have a Serb go into soldiers," but in the '90s, not so much the military was attended by members of national minorities and were forced to participate in wars in which our current state had never officially participated. A few weeks ago, 19 years ago, since the first anti-war protests in our country then organised in Senta by the then unique Hungarian Democratic Party of the Duchy of Hungarians and the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. But regardless of that fact, unfortunately, in the 1990s we participated not in one war, but in wars in which, once again, the state never participated. Unfortunately, we had situations that the Hungarians from Subotica and Hungary from Osijek met on the front, on one side and on the other, or the Croats from Somboro and the Croats from Vukovar, and it was not a natural condition at all. That must be said here in Parliament, and that is, unfortunately, the facts. Just as the facts and the fact that members of the national minorities have not largely avoided the obligation to serve the military deadline rather than that of members of the majority people and no one is right to question the loyalty of all members of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't seem like it anymore, but it seemed 10 or 15 years ago in this country. These people died on the front. We heard from Mr. Secretary that on average four candidates compete for one place and that's certainly good. I would like from this place to appeal to both the minister and members of the ministry to make sure that members of national minorities are also allowed to work in the professional army of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I'm not asking for this to be made possible by the key system of people who do not meet the conditions, but I ask you to really pay attention to making it possible for people of all nationalities to serve in the professional army. I don't think it's against tradition to end the military service obligation. As we know, military service is the legacy of the French bourgeois revolution, and France has long abolished military service. The tradition will not be completely abolished because there is, as we have heard, great interest in the people for professional military service and officer career. It would be very important for professional members to receive their salaries regularly and to make such wages that they can live honestly. We absolutely support the intention that professional members of the military have the right to pension insurance, but also health insurance, which can also be used by members of their families, which includes the possibility of treatment in the system of military health. It is also important to ensure that those citizens who opt to volunteer for a three-month military term are paid up during the three-month period. I don't know how far it's come about that, but I'd like to say that in 2007, we had an initiative to pay pensions for citizens to serve the military term. I would like to remind you that currently, according to research done by the National Assembly Research Centre in 2007, there are currently 12 countries in which there is a mandatory military service, and in which the time counts in the service period – Austria, Cyprus, Estonia, Germany, Lithuania, Poland, Russia, Turkey and Greece. We were aware that two or three years ago Serbia was not able to pay it to troops that were much higher, but now, when we talk about several thousand at an annual level, I think it would be possible to organise it and that it would be one right and wise decision. In the end, I cannot take the opportunity to say that we continue to advocate Serbia's entry into NATO. I, Mr. Minister, am not going to ask you questions about this because it's pretty clear to me, but I would like to tell you that we continue to think that it's the politicians' task to tell the truth, not to say what they think the citizens want to hear, but we all need to tell the real truth to the citizens, not just about NATO, but about all the issues. It should tell citizens what are the advantages, which are the benefits, which are the disadvantages of Serbia's NATO membership. It should be said that Serbia was bombed in 1999, and my city was bombed, and Saturday was bombed and Palic was bombed, innocent people were killed. But we must not be guided solely by emotion. We should watch what is the interest of the Republic of Serbia and of all citizens and say all security, economic and political arguments in favour of NATO membership. We know that there are certain EU countries that are not NATO members, that are Sweden, Finland, Austria and Ireland, but in all these cases there are serious reasons for such a decision, which are primarily historical. It should also be said that there is a reverse situation. For example, Norway is a NATO member and is not a member of the European Union. Most importantly, all the countries of the former Socialists entered NATO first and then entered the European Union. I don't think you can make an exception with Serbia and therefore should move more vigorously in that direction. We voted in favour of the defence strategy a year ago, precisely because there is no word in that strategy on Serbia's military neutrality, and that is a positive step for us. One analyst said a few days ago to hear so-called arguments that no one from the European Union said that we should join NATO first, and that only later can we count on entering the European Union. That's true, and they'll never tell us. That analyst said it was the same situation as no one will ever tell us that we should dress politely before we go to the theater, because we all know that's the way it's supposed to be. It is a similar situation in parliament, Mr. Minister, it does not say anywhere that the minister should speak standing up, and you have spoken standing up, and you are one of the few members of the Government who thus symbolizes the respect of the National Assembly as institutions and MPs. I just have to tell you in the parentheses that the Rules of Procedure say that only a speaker can speak from the President of the Republic, so I hope you won't have a problem with your party for that. Because of this, regardless of what is not and will not be a statement from the European Union that we first need to join NATO, we still feel that we should first join NATO and that this is the only possibility of our membership in the European Union, not because it is a prerequisite, but because in 80% of the cases are members of the European Union and NATO members. So it's about the same system of values and we think it's dishonest, that it's hypocritical to talk about entering the European Union without talking about NATO in the same context. I didn't want to tell you all of this primarily, Mr. Minister, but I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to point to some of the advantages of our country's NATO entry. I hope that at the latest after the next regular parliamentary elections, the new government will return to the path on which all members of the former DOS, which are not European integration, are Euro-Atlantic integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47860	Sixteen minutes have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47861	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 27, paragraph 2, where it is said that the President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, which refers to Rule 104, that is, the replica. You've had your chance. I did not ask for a replica, but I am telling you that I am calling for a member (President: You cannot call on a member of the Rules of Procedure who cannot be broken and injured by the chairman. [[President: National MP, replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] ( b) All right, I appeal to the 27 - president of the National Assembly for the application of the Rules of Procedure. It is obvious that the chair of this session does not hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The already highlighted remark is about the speech from the pay phone. I understand it's... (President: National MP, I now ask you not to abuse Article 103 and I urge you to read all the views of the member who defines who and when speaking at the speaker of the National Assembly. I remind you that the next sentence that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure is your obligation for me to apply Article 103 of Section 7 and to give you a warning measure. ) Also, citizens, unfortunately, have not had the opportunity to see that Constant Arsenović... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47862	Thank you, People's Messenger. Since we have a theme like this, count on this to be a relief measure. National MP Konstantin Arsenović, right on line. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Shame on you any... ) National MP Dragana Todorovic, I ask you not to disrespect the National Assembly, not to throw it out of place, and not to speak rude words during the session of the National Assembly. We all lose our reputation together, and you don't get anything, so I'm asking you to stop being rude. I thank you and remind you that you already have a measure of relief from giving notice for abuse of the rights of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to you, People's Parliament. You have the right to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47863	I'll give up the replica, I just don't think I'm being respected as a MP, but I'll just say two things. First, I think my presentation made it clear that we would support all four points. Secondly, for emotional reasons towards the army, I will never say anything publicly. All I want is to kind of point out some of the dilemmas that bother me, and that doesn't mean I'm always right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47864	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47865	I'd just like to thank Mr. Pastor for the discussion. I know you support the law, but I would like you to know, when you say that the German army is not being used, that Chancellor Merkel and Minister Gutenberg, on a proposal from the German Army's General Staff, have launched a process of professionalization, so also in Germany, that the army is being professionalised and that approximately 70,80,000 military members are being reduced. What did General Nikolai Makarov say in the interview "Politice" about professionalising the question of what stage is the process of full professionalisation of Russia's armed forces? He answers – we believe that the best option is to have a full army by contract. So it's the same opinion there, with them not being in a situation right now to end this job the way we do, but we believe they will. What I must also tell you, you know, is that today there is a great interest in exactly the countries that have not completed professionalization for our experience and that we have told them that we have done so in an extremely short time. What I also want to point out, although I must say that in the military we do not share an army with minority or Serb people, the fact is that the response to the service was really high among the minorities and the fact is that we did not have a problem in the period during which we were in the ministry. You know for a fact that we even had the death of our pilot, Istvan Kansas, that we had another pilot who jumped, that we really had our own army that still depicts the situation throughout the country. I am particularly proud that after many years at the Military Academy, we have Hungarians, Croatians, Montenegrins, and Ukrainians, and Roma, and Goranac, and Bunjevac and Russian and more Bosniaks. We are trying to make our military academy a picture of Serbia. What's not mentioned here, but I want to say, also, the very important thing about professionalization is that we allow women to enter the professional composition of the army. We will have between 12 and 14% of women, which is a modern and modern trend. It's definitely a good thing. As I said before, we have women at the Military Academy, which is extremely important from the aspect of reform and from the aspect of respect for something, which is obviously not previously respected in our country. As for the question of paying off a working internship for those who volunteer to serve a military term, I think, of course, that's a matter primarily of finance and we're going to do a serious analysis. I'm also a man who thinks that those who dare volunteer to serve a military term, who dares to task us all in the state by being on the defensive of the country for three months, as funny and funny as that may seem, I think we really need to give them a big confession. I really believe that we can also secure the payment of that internship, because it's something minimal that the state can repay them. Also, I believe that through a system of training, education, we will give them the opportunity to remain professors and members of the Serbian Army, but to acquire certain knowledge that would cost them much more in civil life. So we use them to train them in certain knowledge they've never had before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47866	The word has been issued by MP Sasa Dujovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47867	The Honorable Representation, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this topic that is on the agenda today, this law has caused sharp controversy in one part of the public I belong to, and that is, above all, a veteran population that is unfortunately very numerous in the past two decades of our history. Before I start to say something about suggestions, I would like to point out that in previous discussions there have been several, not to say a uglier or stronger word, a fact that simply does not stand. No national minority has been cast out in the 1990s what is called violent mobilization, but under the present Constitution of the SFRY, which was valid until the Constitution brought on the Frog, were simply obliged to respond as citizens of that Yugoslavia to what is called a call for military service or a call in the event of a threat to the country, whether it is an external or an internal enemy. Not all responded in the same way. There were people who responded in large numbers, looking at and looking at certain unreasonable foreign factors. That's how it was. We all did what we could in those conditions that we could, which was to defend the state. But to go back to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligation and to say that professionalization of the Army is that. the introduction of a professional composition absolutely correct procedure and of the current governments and those who had before. I can say that as someone who has participated in the defence of the Serbian people for many years and I know very well what it means to be a professional. When professionals come, even those JNAs, equipped with other members of the army, how much they know to interfere with the man himself. Systemically looking at professionalization, the way it's meant for these laws of ours, it's going to be one big deal. He's already gone well, and that's a good thing. It'll be an expensive job. That won't be cheap. A professional is an extremely expensive soldier and must be well stimulated to do his job professionally and well and well. Our society in general is making a huge effort to ensure conditions for such professionals in that number that means strategy and we get. What is largely encouraging is all the accompanying part that will follow through the Ministry of Defence's dedicated industry. Reinforcement is one of the great things that you've gained in terms of your agility, Mr. Minister, and all of your associates, to place the dedicated industry where it used to belong, which is to be the leading economic operator here. Surely it will contribute much more to facilitating the professionalization of the army itself. I am extremely pleased with the possibility of serving a military deadline on a voluntary basis and this is something that will combine the tradition primarily of the Serbian people, but also something that modern modern flows and trends of society in general, absolutely contribute to making many young people, and we see after these changes and additions and many girls, opted for a voluntary service of military time under arms, which will be to the joy of all those who have the opportunity and the desire to reconcile their obligations in this way, but also not to end one, to be a little funny, the tradition of enlisting in the army. What is not to be ignored is the growing and greater involvement of our members of the professional group in peacekeeping missions, which I believe will be more and more and more, as time goes by, and our soldiers will take up those places within the society that belong to them, and will be provided to them, and more and more and such an engagement within peace missions and humanitarian missions, but also separation operations will lead to a huge potential of experience from such missions, which in any case will lead to me not to say Southeast Europe, surely leading to such a thing, and this is really encouraging. I especially look forward to these changes to the possibility that persons of a gentler sex, I say, allow women, as men, on equal terms, to serve a military term voluntarily. That was something that was impossible until yesterday in the Balkans. The issue of European integration is now being raised. It is mentioned in previous discussions and the legacy of the problems related to these amendments and additions to the laws and otherwise to the Military Act. It's a short period of time from some things that happened not so long ago where many of our fellow citizens are. Many warriors have defended this country's dignity in one way or another, and of course there are many problems left in the matter of retired military personnel, when it comes to the reserve, when it comes to veterans. The problems are about housing issues, pension compensation, personal income payments and everything that you and your associates face every day and try to find a solution. I believe that compared with the creation of a professional Serbian Army system, it will come slowly, step by step, to solve all these accumulated problems, especially when it comes to certain categories that they call themselves military homeless. It's really ugly. These are the people the state owes to to solve housing problems. I was very pleased with the fact that within the Ministry of Defence, a sector was planned for a veterinary issue within the administration, and that is an indication that the Ministry of Defence wants to devote itself to those things that are from this close to history, which are inherited and cannot be placed under the carpet, because they don't belong there. It is a large number of Serbian citizens. In the end, I would like to say, given that the controversy was harsh when it comes to the decision to suspend military service, many have called for tradition, and frankly I am not glad that we are making this decision, but we are making it because we want better for our professional army, because we want better for our people, but we also want to point out that I am sure that if it were necessary to defend the state, we would not all rely on the professional army, but as it is primarily in the tradition of our people we would all be there on the spot. This should not be used as an argument, but should give full support to the implementation of these reforms, bringing the professional composition of the Serbian Army to those branches on which it should be, which is a well-paid Serb soldier, a well-equipped Serb soldier, a well-trained Serb soldier. Then many who may have some hidden intentions have some claim to this country will be much harder to decide, and if veterans decide to do so, I can say, in their name, from past wars, and all citizens stop and defend their homeland. On that behalf and on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group and on behalf of the Veterans Movement, we will give support in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47868	Nine minutes and 13 seconds of authorized representative time have been used. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47869	I just want to direct you to a few things that have been mentioned on the board as a subject. The fact is, no one in the state has any experience forming a professional army. The fact is, it's the first time we've done it. The fact is that we're trying to learn from other people's experiences, to apply them in our system, with as little error as possible and finally, with as few corrective factors as possible that allow us to function, to say, in walking. The question arises – should it be possible for those who wish to serve voluntarily a military deadline to serve a military term. I know there are those who don't think it should be done. However, we believe that this should exist. The practice in the environment shows that most states are defined as being able to serve the army. This military service or training takes 15 days to six months. For example, in Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Montenegro, Croatia and Slovenia it is possible for everyone to volunteer and go to training, I say, from 15 days to six months. Hungary, Albania and BiH do not have this way of serving. But today we're making a decision, and it's important that everyone knows the public, not about abolishing military service. The point is to make a decision on the obligation to serve the military term. So, volunteering, whoever wants to, and I can see that there are often those who comment on various blogs, websites, how, right now that they wanted to serve, the army won't serve anymore. Let me tell you, the army will continue to be used. I will personally observe those who insist that they cannot serve the army, and they themselves did not serve the army, or their party colleagues did not serve the military or signatories of various contracts, but they usually know that they comment on the defence system and know what it looks like within the army, just as they like to see it. What's a fact, what's a record fact, is that we've been running the ministry and the military for the past three and a half years have avoided making any kind of an affair or an emergency that hasn't been resolved in public. There is no today, and I expect to hear these questions too, there is today nothing to be burdened by this ministry management as a problem we have created. It's true we couldn't solve all the problems. It is true that there is a certain category of people who have failed to provide a housing issue in recent years. It's also true that in the last three years, we've provided slightly less than 3,000 people. That means about a thousand a year, and we plan even more, a thousand a year. If I were to tell you that 350 of those who follow up on a housing issue are entering the system, we did what we could in three years. Is that enough? Probably not. From what point of view? From the aspquet that 30 years it hasn't been solved. Today the keys come from the apartments of people who wait 20 years, 20 years. In those 20 years, everyone sitting in this House has run an army, directly, indirectly, coalitionally, whatever. They all have results and statistics that can come out here, and we have ours, and see who's done more for the people who are left without a settled housing issue and who's less. What I want you to know is that the average pension today of a military pensioner in Serbia is higher than the average salary of the Ministry of Defence. It's bigger than the average pension in Serbia. The average pension is about 39,000 dinars. To this, those who have no settled housing issue get depending on whether they are alone or have a family, between 2,600 dinars and 17,500 dinars. There are families that get 17,500 dinars. I know that other than downtown Belgrade, that money can rent a housing unit and live much more politely than living inside a barracks. When we talk about military homeless today, we need to know that this amount of money that has allowed them to be dulled, such as muppets, police, etc. Today, the average cop doesn't have this much income, and no one solves his housing issue, because the state is unable to. To be clear, even in the world, it's not being solved the way it's being solved with us. It's being resolved in a way that we allow them, as we do at the Department of Defense, to have a subsidized loan, with a solid and good salary, so they can buy a housing unit where they can stay. Nowhere in the world, the developed world, no one gives you an apartment. Of course, this apartment that these people get, they need to buy it at a better price. The fact is, we need to be aware that there is no possibility that our budget can correct the mistakes that have existed for 30 years. What you need to know, today we're going to have a salary by the end of the year more or less, the staff plan is 36,000 people, 36,000 people on the salary and fifty-five thousand, two three thousand people on pension. Of that, there are two three thousand who live in Republika Srpska. We pay pensions to pensioners and Republika Srpska. It's all coming from the D.O.D.'s budget. When you look at the costr, what personal costs look like, basic costs, operating costs and investments, we're in total imbalance. Our personal costs are almost 80% or 75% compared to all costs. The world's best has Norway, that's 40:30, 30. We 70 percent go to personal expenses. The ability to draw financial resources, so that people who think of themselves as being damaged, can do more than they're getting right now. Believe me, I've had a chance to talk to a woman who's come to call some people who live in Novi Sad. The woman was from some victimological society. After half an hour of conversation, she came into a situation that as a highly trained employee, she had less salary than that pensioner who wrote to her. When he gets that UTS, he's got twice as many receipts as she does. Now she from the victimological society needs to go around him and see why he lives in poor conditions, when she has twice as much income as she does. Because someone has that choice, unfortunately. Unfortunately, someone chose her not to leave the facilities, and at the same time she wants to appear very threatened in a situation where, I say, there are receipts rather than having average people who are currently active in our service. Of course I'd like those questions to be settled. Of course I'd love to. That's why I say again, we're chasing the improvement of our military industry, export, not just the military industry. There are factories and "Jumko" in Vranj, and "14th October" in Kruševec, and "The First Five-year-old" in Tristenik, and FAP in Priboj and "Utva" in Pančevo. So it's not just these six factories that are being run as a dedicated factory. We're trying to focus all the funds we get in the investment budget on domestic production and buy our own, because we want the money to stay in the state. When we talk about benefits and costing professionalization, we need to be aware that we're doing less professionalization today than we did two years ago and last year, and we're getting more money back into the system, into the budget than we did two years ago. Our professional army member gets paid, we pay all the contributions he needs to receive, you understand. The money goes back to the budget, and we have less. It's something that burdens us, and I hope that next year's budget will be where and where better, that we can finally go with the equipment. Professionalization without modernising our weapons and military equipment is not a job to be done. The other thing, for those I see counting us in pieces and a kilo today, I don't mean you. So in the war in America between the North and the South, one square mile covered 600 fighters. Drop-off on Normandy – 400. War in Iraq - three. These three fighters with the equipment they have, they could have fought these 600. What's the idea? The idea is that we have three, but equipment that can counter these 600. Of course, it's a process that takes a little while. It's a process that requires money. What is important is that when we leave the Ministry of Defence, that what concerns politics, arrangements, reforms will be brought to the best possible level. The purchase of weapons, believe me, if you give the money, we can do it as much as tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47870	The word has an MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47871	Dear MPs, chairman, respected military ministers, today we need to round up a defence legislation that was started a few years ago and not only with laws, but also with strategic documents that were adopted in connection with the country's defence strategy and that, in fact, we end one thing. It's actually a professionalization of the military as one element of this entire system. Today, we have a law that does not have many members, but serves this end of the job and one decision that the Assembly needs to make under the original Law on Military Obligation. In fact, military professionalization is being done here in a quick and scenic way, I think for the simple reason that for Southeast European countries, military professionalization is a NATO standard. In fact, this army needs to meet that condition in order to enter a policy-making system based on decisions made far from this country, the Pentagon or other centres of military decision-making, world affairs and world opportunities. We, therefore, need to go further into Euro-Atlantic integration by rounding this legislation, into a process for which there is no state decision or government decision or parliament's decision. We still have the view that we are a military natural country, but we are practically doing everything in this process of Euro-Atlantic integration to progress as far as possible in terms of the ideas, dynamics and phases of NATO's centres. And this professionalization is part of the job, and I have to express one regret that in this business, which is not legal from the point of view of the most important state decisions, we are making good progress, and in that job that is legal, and in terms of European integration, we are making very little progress, but we are doing a big campaign. We're not campaigning here, because politics is relatively secretive, but that's why we're making progress in big steps, so we need to make these amendments to the law and this decision today. In fact, if the entire military and political establishment, which cares about the country's defence and security issues, had made an analysis of the situation in which the country is located from a security point of view, there would probably be some other coincidences, even when it comes to professionalising the military. In fact, Serbia is far from that ideal or paradise of eternal peace and is not in a position to act as if it has no threat to its borders. In fact, Serbia's borders as states are very threatened, not to mention the most important problem in this complex, that is the question of KIM, where our borders with Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania have actually ceased to exist as borders, and they have moved towards those so-called. border crossings, Brnjak, Jarinje, Merdare, Konchulj, etc. But it's not just that, it's about many indicators that actually make Serbia's borders very vulnerable. I will list several examples of the latest, but which are repeated, simply such a situation is repeated often enough, so that both the ministry and the military should take a completely different view and on this issue that we are discussing today. A few days ago, we had a case of eight or nine people coming from Bulgaria, about 500 people, who were members of extremist political organisations and who were to protest in Bosilegrad against, watch out, the Noja Agreement, an agreement on the border between Serbia and Bulgaria since the First World War. You see, this indication is very dangerous and very permanent, even politically somewhere there is some danger, as the Bulgarian government has been put there on a voluntary basis according to such a single request by these people and critically according to the decision of our border-political authorities not to allow these buses to enter. You had an invitation from our ambassador, communication between the two foreign affairs ministries, etc., so it wasn't an incident, it was a very significant act. Then you have this 64-counties movement, which was founded and whose centre is in Budapest a few decades ago, whose representatives are very happy to come to Vojvodina and perform and their ideological and political strategies. As you know, the main objective of this movement is to revise again an international border agreement, which was adopted after World War I, in fact two, from Rapal and Trijanon, which established the borders of Hungary, the 64 County Movement aims to restore the space of 64 County, which the former Hungary as a monarchy. Then you have some other indicators. An Albanian politician from Presevo attended a meeting in Tirana where the so-called "Presseva" was discussed. to natural Albania, it is a new term or new category that coincides with the idea of Albania's great idea. He came back here, he's doing his job, no one asked him about anything. Whenever Mustafa Ceric comes to Novi Pazar and discusses religious issues, Muamer ef Zukorlic says – Sandzak seeks territorial autonomy. Here are a few examples that are not individual examples. They keep repeating themselves. For one army, for one Ministry of Defence and for one state, it's finally enough that it starts to think differently about these issues and that it makes its defence strategy according to the estimates and analyses of its security situation, the question of how threatened it is? I don't want to alarm the situation, they're not still movements and tendencies that can change borders, but Serbia from Belgrade has to think about these things with its own mind, and not with the Pentagon's head, which says -- the NATO strategy is like this, and you fit in, you're in Euro-Atlantic integration. As you know, all countries have joined more or less, especially Eastern European countries that later joined the EU and now Western Balkan countries. This is the situation from which our legislation should be implemented. When it comes to the very thing, the professionalization of the military, it's not a question of whether the military should be professionalized, it's one of the right questions, and whether it should be reformed, even more correct. Our army was very traditionally organized and directed over several decades of the socialist system, etc., and this system of the 1990s has been inherited by this very kind of organization and military-mobilization and military-forming element, etc. It is not a question of whether to reform, the question is – why go so far and so radically in this reform and say from today, and practically this is the decision we make today, we no longer have a people's army, as it is said, we have only a professional army. Why didn't combined methods do something and delay the decision on professionalisation, precisely because Serbia is not responding to a concept that has been formulated somewhere far from this country and where Serbia should be part of the process. NATO and the Pentagon and Brussels, I don't think Brussels is the EU, but Brussels NATO, have completely other or some of their political goals and strategies and those wars they wage, they are wars of their kind, related primarily to the interests of the United States and some major EU countries, such as objectives and interests, etc. I don't know why these would be our wars, and why would our army as a professional army, entering such an adventure of Euro-Atlantic integration, membership in NATO, have to share the fate of those interests that are far from us? Otherwise, you have one extremely dangerous socio-economic situation, which perfectly agrees with this kind of military reform and its complete professionalization. When you make a fully professional army, because of the troubles you have as an economically poor country, that army will begin to interfere slowly to participate in these wars, with which we normally have nothing to do with. It's a policy that takes place in front of our eyes. I can set an example, Montenegro, which is not yet in NATO, but wants to enter, and Boris Tadic wished her all the best, I don't know why, because it is another country, she made a decision two years ago to send 68 soldiers to Afghanistan. When a little less than two years ago, the first group of 34 soldiers left, something went wrong about it by MPs to the opposition parliament, and of all that, there was only one cynical and funny title in the opposition list "Dan", as a commentary. It was written by the Taliban who came to you with dark days. It shows that they didn't want to, in a situation where young people don't have jobs, where they don't have money, where they don't have a perspective, they go into the professional composition of the army to live and survive, it's young people in question, and they survive, and when even that country can't feed them as professional soldiers anymore, they'll give them an alternative realistically – go to world wars, you'll make money there. You have an economic and social extortion and you have an extortion, so to speak, some youthful adventure, which also participates in a young man's decision to do such a thing, as it used to be in a French legion. There were such people and there was also a monetary interest and some specific adventure. That's the real danger we're in, counting on this concept of military professionalization. When I say - why did it go so far, I have in mind countries that did not do it, which are European countries. These countries of the environment must be excluded, because they are dependent, important states, as is Serbia. I just want to ask whether Serbia must be, and also in this particularly sensitive issue, such as the issue of defence and the military. Sorry, Serbia has a slightly different tradition in military matters compared to Croatia, Bosnia, Macedonia, etc. 804th. Not all of them can be reduced to one measure and all of them glychshalt from the Czech Republic to Bulgaria, etc. And that we all have to do the same. No, Serbia has a different tradition. Secondly, there is a problem different from those countries. None of these countries have a problem with border threats except Serbia. It's a factor enough to think about something else. Finally, you have examples. These examples are not some analogies based on which a reform of our system could be carried out, but they are interesting. Switzerland, for example, has a military obligation. It also has a part of the professional composition of the army, which is relatively small, 5% of the total. They call him the militia, although it has nothing to do with the police, and it has to do with military service. The permanent composition of the Swiss army -- about 130,000 soldiers and about 70,000 spare soldiers. Switzerland costs 3.9 billion francs a year. That's $3.6 billion, and we can say that Switzerland is a rich country and it pays something like that, but where does the idea of Switzerland have a people's army, so a country that hasn't fought in two world wars? Because Switzerland has declared military neutrality before that, even with its 1848 Constitution and adheres to this strategy until today, but this military neutrality has actually contributed most to the Swiss retaining of the people's army without making a professional army with elements of professionalism, of course. So, I'm talking about the basic composition of the army. Look what happened. At the end of the 1980s, there was an association in Switzerland that used to make propaganda for Switzerland to abolish its customs. There was a referendum, Mr. Minister, and that initiative was lost. The initiative was repeated in 2001, several months before the situation with the world trade centre in New York. The referendum, unfortunately the initiator, was carried out several months later and 77% of those who went out against such a reform of the Swiss army, which would be professionalised. Finally, they adopted a new defence strategy in 2003, again with a referendum, Mr. Minister, where some elements of the reform were accepted, so we don't talk about it for long, but it questions the concept of the People's Army of Switzerland. We have an example that we cannot copy, but I want to say that in the heart of Europe there is a country that thinks with its own heads and interests about military strategy and defence strategy, regardless of not participating in missions of peace, maintaining peace throughout the world, when it comes to their defence policy, they do not copy NATO. That's what they managed to do. The second accent of this is that the population decides by a referendum on these issues. Mr. Minister, you said that NATO is best off holding a referendum. Today we hear from the messengers who say: If the truth is spoken, it is best that the people do not ask much. You know what, telling the truth from political people, statesmen, who are at the head of the state, and not asking the people, is a characteristic of dictatorial regimes, not democratic ones. The referendum is a democratic mechanism, however you turn. If the Swiss have decided on such things that are beneath the most strategic decisions in the field of defence, so can we, too, whether we should join NATO or not, but it is understandable why you have made a statement that we should not go to a referendum – because this people are not for NATO, and you are working fully towards that direction. We make this law for that reason. So quickly it goes with legislation and radically changes concepts. In fact, you follow the results of a public opinion survey and there is a standard of about 60 to 74%, which time, opponents of NATO entry, and supporters fall. It's a normal result for a number of reasons, and I don't want to talk about it right now, to hold on to it, but it has to be respected. You cannot say – it is not a question because wise leadership knows best where to lead the people. No, it's going to be that it's a wise job under the strong influence of strong security and strategic tendencies and that it's simply decided that the easiest thing to do is to subdue that current and swim down the water. What kind of consequences will be given by defense, by the military, by the borders, by what, that doesn't matter. It's not the primary analysis of the situation in the country, it's the net primary what actually is some kind of white-world investance. As for some of the things in this law, in this original law that is now being amended, there really needs to be some questions. Here's the economic aspect. Namely, a professional soldier can't cost below 120,000 dinars a month, if you consider his salary, if you consider contributions, if you take credit from a working-law relationship it's not possible. Multiply that by 11,000 you'll see the number that it takes a year to support that professional composition with that number. That figure is not in line with the country's economic situation. If we introduce her today and she becomes professional, we'll have to anticipate these costs in the budget. That's about 120 million dinars. What's the problem? You can't argue that it's some kind of cost savings. It's some new cost we haven't had so far because we didn't have a professional army. Unlike him, he's a real recruit, far away as an individual cost less or didn't cost the state at all in terms of wages and all that. There is one bad coincidence of such a relationship that would be introduced at the level of the professional army as a category, which would be introduced so quickly and quickly into our country, there is no danger of creating an esnaf from the military, of creating a closed corps, where in fact, without these recruits on the basis of military obligations, you create a professional composition that operates in some of your own internal interests. If the composition and the esnaf make a good deal with politicians who are currently in power, these mechanisms of parliamentary civilian control will not easily penetrate. This one circle that will be quite closed and informatively difficult to penetrate and therefore will not be subject to control, which may be the most important. If you cancel your military service obligation, that's what this is all about, what will citizens be aware of their obligations to the state? It's a category that's the same as the category of rights. We keep talking about rights, we have a lot of rights that a citizen owns on paper, these normative solutions, but there's a little talk about obligations. The public's obligation comes down to the taxpayer's obligation to have a technical and financial relationship with the state. Look, the military obligation isn't just a question of these trivial problems, whether our children are going to go to some dirty barracks, etc., these are some things that can be improved by reforms and larger investments. A military obligation is a kind of moral obligation for a man, therefore, both a man and a woman – women can be subject to, if they are for voluntary service, then they may also be mandatory, but this is now a second question – so this whole category of obligation towards the state of a specific moral-emotional relationship, if you will, an individual to the state is simply abolished by such solutions and by the introduction of a professional army. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to ask a question, namely, we're not going to vote for these changes, that's understood, because this is just a final blow to something that you've asked earlier, but it's really interesting that you in article 7 have introduced a new jurisdiction for the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic, on a proposal from the defence minister, can shorten the duration and service of the military term. I haven't seen the constitutional basis for that. In the explanation of Article 7, you are referring to the Army Act, Article 17, but you have no provision in that law that the president may shorten the military term. There is no such competence and therefore you cannot legally increase the responsibility of the president, which is one constitutional category and depends on the dissuasive powers that are mentioned here. Like I said, there's no law to which you call. Then, just one more remark, there are others, which actually shows that you and the President of the Republic and the Minister of Defence are giving some new powers in relation to the existing situation. Here, the defence minister will be able to determine the number and structure of a person with whom an engagement contract can be concluded in an active reserve. So, this time without a proposal from the Chief of Staff.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47872	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47873	I really listened very carefully to you and I'm glad you went public, that it is clear that you are against the professionalization of the Serbian Army and that you will not vote for it. I hope that, when we have elections next time, we will have the opportunity to face these views and that your party and above all the youth support your position that we should not do it the way we do it. However, what I must first say seems a little offensive to you, although the officers have not responded, but have the fear of the Serbian Army and indicate in the Serbian Parliament that there is a danger of the military if it is professionalised is indeed not appropriate. Please do not look at the Army of Serbia or future professionals in this way. To have the idea that Switzerland should be an exemplar for your defense system, to say that they are neutral, and whose weapons do you think they have, whose planes, whose tanks have tanks? Who are they in close cooperation with? Are they in the Partnership for Peace, are they in peace missions, are they sterilized according to NATO standard, do they speak English, do they meet these conditions that are necessary? But what I've come up with is what I've said in my presentation, but it seems you haven't listened well, and now I'm going to repeat and give statistics and data and face something that isn't an exchange of our opinion, because your opinion and my opinion didn't match even when we were together in the government, to talk a little bit about statistics and the real facts that exist in the defense system, which are written down before and will be written after me. The largest collapse of the defence system occurs just between 2004 and 2007. The responsibility of this is borne by the government that then led our country. In that government, if I'm not mistaken, you were a minister. Right? At that time, with 75,000 members of our army, we come to a little more than 35,000 members. So, you, so concerned about the defence system, so worried about Serbia's borders, are making a decision, firstly, that the police take over the borders, not the military, and secondly, that the army is decimated from 75,000 to 35,000. At the same time, on May 15, when we come to the Ministry, you leave us 2.7 billion dinars of debt that we need to pay out of the budget we received that year. You're talking about a very unusual decision by the Montenegrin government to send a team of the Montenegro Army to Afghanistan. Did you vote for that same decision in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Did you, as a representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia, to whom Kostunica was prime minister, make the same decision that you did not have the courage to present to the public? You're talking here today about how I plan to send some soldiers, and you've made that decision formally at the government's session. Is that true? Is it true that the government of Vojislav Kostunica made the decision to send a medical team of the Republic of Serbia military with a Norwegian contingent to Afghanistan? You may have forgotten, but it's written down. You made that decision, you yourself. I see you're ashamed and ashamed of it, but I'm just afraid I can't avoid it, that's what I have to tell you. I tried to tell you a little while ago. In my opening statement, I tried to tell you that we all know each other pretty well and that I have no idea that I'm having a debate with anyone. I just want to say, 75 grand, Minister Tadic leaves the ministry, leaves, I become minister, 35.5 grand. You have reduced the 40,000-strong status of the Serbia-Montenegro Army in your term of office. Today we're talking about debt to the pensioners. You've left several billion dinars to the pensioners for failing to comply with your pensions to those who came after you. So much for your concern for the military and whether we're doing business legally or not. The Republic of Serbia, a defence strategy adopted in parliament. On page 15, it is said -- the next defence policy tasks, firstly, transformation and professionalisation of the Serbian Army. There is no segment of our work in a defense system that is not legal, absolutely all are legal. Apropo referendum, let me tell you, I greatly appreciated the fact that Vojislav Kostunica, without a referendum, applied that our country joins the UN. Then the radicals, all together, the SPS and the others attacked it as illegal, and they do it day and day, in principle. Right, it wasn't a referendum? It wasn't even, I mean, Parliament's decisions. I won't even talk about the Council of Europe. About the Partnership for Peace and our biggest integration that we did with NATO, we just did at a time when you were in power in the Republic of Serbia in November 2006. Today speaking that way doesn't just stand up to us. But what's important to me to tell you, it's not true that 120,000 dinars of money are allocated to a professional soldier. I don't know where you got that math. I'll give you the math right, you'll get exactly how much the professional soldier gets this afternoon's salary, how much he contributes to everything, and you'll see that it's, I think, twice as much. But also, what I'm saying is that it's separate for contributions, etc., it's coming back to the budget, so it's coming back to you. The other thing, there's no good and cheap military, there's no good and cheap cop, there's no good and cheap civil servant. The idea of having an army isn't a people's army. The People's Army was abolished in 1883, it's a standing army. The idea of having an army because, well, we don't have to pay professionals, with an explanation that if they're professionals, they'll cost us dearly and be the alienated center of power that can't be controlled, so that's the apocalypse. So that's one state of consciousness where I don't recognize Serbia or the citizens of Serbia and even fewer Serbian Army officers. People who professionally commit to being members of the Serbian Army are aware that they give, understand, and life for the state. Today you question that they will organize themselves in some circle and, God forbid, bind themselves with the authorities that are changing, and do not know what of our country. To return to European integration. You brought us a comparison with a country that is neutral and not integrated into European integration either. Give us a comparison with one country that is integrated into European integration. I don't think we're a big country, it's possible that you have such an impression, but if you have the impression that we're important now, we were no less important when you decided to go to Afghanistan, nothing less when you decided to join the Partnership for Peace, even more. I'm afraid if we continue this way, I have all the energy and all the power and, believe me, I don't have any problem, but the facts, please, statistics, give us what's wrong, what's better when you ran the system, what you left us, and I'll tell you what we're going to leave, how many people today support professionalization, why 90 thousand of them served military deadline civilians. Ninety thousand young people served the military deadline of a civilian. Another question – in your term of office, the military deadline has been reduced to six months. I served as an army liaison, training was six months. Six months of training was for vesicles, and I believe it was for some other breeds for six months. How did you think that in a world of modern weapons and military techniques, a soldier trained for six months and when he finished that training to go home? Who's going to work on those systems? Who's gonna run these systems? Who's gonna use them? Some other parallel soldier, who will be a professional and who will be paid to do so. So it's just one absurd thing. I have to tell you that I've supported a short-term military deadline, it's not a dispute, but with the idea of going in the direction of professionalization. What's also being respected and what can look pretty fast to you, and it is fast, from the point of view of the snail is all fast, we started this process in 2003. The fact that in the fourth, fifth, sixth and partly seventh, you haven't already worked on it, and it's not known that you've been holding back much of what we started together since 2000, that's the problem. In 2007, we rolled up our sleeves and said that we would honor the deadline set in 2003. In this country, the deadlines are finally respected in some things. Our system is reformed by the deadlines and by the standards that are best in the world. Today when you take books from physics, from mechanics, you'll see they're the same standards. They're not called NATO, but they're the standards of Western civilizations we want to belong to. There's one more thing you should know. When we introduced the so-called. I'll stand by the army, we've been doing it by the reputation of Western civilizations. Today we introduce professionalization in the respect of what our old people did, to Western civilization. It's not our idea to copy those who are currently in worse shape than we are. (President: Please, no direct communication. I don’t understand why this anxiety and the throw? We're talking about something very argumentative here. If you have an idea and regret that your son or nephew will not serve your military time, I will personally make sure that he serves the military term. Just talk to me and you don't have a problem. If you have any idea that your neighbor or I don't know who's gonna be denied a military service, like some people didn't want to serve, it's not a problem, and we're gonna work it out. I'm just asking you to support something that's a civilization norm. It's not that we don't have our brains. I was just telling you that Germany has asked us how we did, that Austria has asked us, Russia is interested in consultations, etc. Of course, there has been no smart Serb in your system of values since St. Sava. But what we do is worldly recognised, and in the country, by Serbian citizens who support Serbia's army, and abroad, by all those who have signed agreements with us or come to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47874	Right on line, MP Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47875	This is now a time of controversy, so at least Mr. Minister dictated his answers to me personally and to my party instead of talking about the problem. He simply took the opportunity to return, on the basis of my criticism, which is objective because it is not directed at any party or at any man, to actually return as some boomerang one bucket of garbage to Vojislav Kostunica's head and former prime minister, which best speaks of him, i.e. about you, I'm talking to you directly now. That is not how it is discussed in the Serbian parliament, although it is sometimes discussed, especially when ministers exceed the order and order that we have introduced here. You've said a lot of arbitraryness, not to say inaccuracy or false. It would take a lot of time to answer each of them. I'll start with the referendum. The referendum is your big problem. Call a referendum, not because there is a constitutional or legal obligation, there is constitutional and legal possibility for a referendum, there is no obligation, neither for an international organisation nor for a military-political organisation. Call him out because it's a question in the state and you know it well. Because 70% of people don't really want to join NATO. You can't bring 70% of the population into NATO cryo, overnight, into your crawling, secret, Arkanic politics. You can't. Call it in so you can deny what I'm saying. Be consistent and do an act, and don't act like you're secretly running a pro-NATO policy. Because if you didn't, you wouldn't have had this Lisbon resolution a few days ago, you wouldn't have informed us that Serbia was defined for Euro-Atlantic integration. We don't know it legally, we just know it based on what you're doing. There's your problem. So just answer that question. The six-month deadline was one decision made in 2004 or 2005. By the way, I wasn't a minister back then. I've been since 2007. But it doesn't matter. There was a very large military reduction effect in this number of 40,000. There was a lot of wandering around in that whole thing. The fact that you, like, welcomed large debts, etc., why did you come into power with us with such large debts that we set up for you? That's not true at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47876	People's MP, replica time has been used. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47877	That's why you and I are different. So I went into the government to solve the problem, to solve the problems that you left behind. I couldn't choose you, you were chosen by the people, just like he didn't choose you to be with us now. That's a fact. But I'll tell you one more thing and I can document it for you. By the time the government was formed in May 2007, all documents made by the Ministry of Defence were made in a way that was written by Euro-Atlantic integration. I'll give you all the documents. Believe me, all the documents exist. The defense system is a serious system where everything you say or write down, it's all gone, everything remains. When you look at today's proposal for a National Security Strategy, which was done in time before 2007, you will see that you are defined for Euro-Atlantic integration. You didn't answer if there was a decision on participation in Afghanistan with our medical team? Has that decision been made? I know you know that. The public doesn't know. I will say again: The government of Vojislav Kostunica has made a decision to refer Serbia's military medical team to the Norwegian contingent in Afghanistan. The same medical team was in Norway in training. Thanks to that decision we received from the Norwegians and the Polish hospital. We're practically in charge of that nation. And then, since you're obviously shifty on the international scene, suddenly the decision in which you attack me that I forced a decision that was made a year before I became a minister. It just doesn't stand. You didn't answer me. If there is already 75 thousand communication here, Defence Minister Tadic, meanwhile 35-36 thousand. So it was reduced by more than double in that period. And what you did not pay attention to - We have increased the number of states. So today we have a greater number of conditions than in May 2007, with professionals and not with recruits. We don't have the cost of sending, we don't have the cost of civil service, we don't have much to spend, but we are operational, military, much more powerful than in 2007 when I became Minister of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47878	National MP Slobodan Samardzic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47879	Mr. Minister, you yourself said it was a medical staff decision. When you commented on what I said about Montenegro, you said – a team of soldiers, to connect it to this team and make it analogous. Don't do that, it's one logical mistake, first of all. Two, one is soldiers under arms, and the other is medical personnel. As for what you said, since I highly doubt your good intentions, that thing can be easily questioned and the DSS can bring a public statement about it. That's no problem. Now I'm about to say that that's the case, since I don't have any facts about it, I wasn't in the government at the time. In 2007, I came to the government in May. I don't think this is a fruitful discussion. It's not fertile because the main topic and the main reason for this whole thing are being bypassed, and it's actually a professionalization of the military due to the obligation to join NATO. You didn't answer my question of the referendum. Why are you running away from the referendum? Answer me that question. Enter this adventure, see what Serbian citizens think? They're not on average so uninformed that they don't know so much that they won't know they're going to be able to turn themselves in to that question. Feel free to ask them, and then move on to your military adventures, which you do for other countries and other world powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47880	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47881	I must say, from the point of view of international legislation, are you an officer, a doctor or an officer working on computers, or a liaison officer, you carry arms and succumb to all the laws that are subject to other soldiers. So, saying that our soldiers who go there as doctors aren't equal soldiers, like those who go there to dominate, you're wrong. Absolutely incorrect. What's on the subject today is the subject of professionalization. As you say most people aren't up to this, I claim that the vast majority of your citizens and your voters, even your relatives, even those who didn't serve your army, that the military is professionalizing and I'm trying to get back to the topic of the military alone. The political decisions we will make in the future have nothing to do with this decision. This decision concerns whether or not we are going to enter standards that have been accepted in the world at all. For a year, the Russian army has been working to codify their army's NATO standard. It's been a year. You want to stop Serbia, because when Serbia stops, then you will feel the best. I'm sorry, there's nothing left of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47882	Right on the replica, MP Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47883	You're already in your first presentation, I skipped it, I said that military professionalization requires most citizens. Will you show us that information? Please show us that information. That's about what you said earlier, and as far as NATO is concerned, let the people go to the referendum, so you'll see the information. Secondly, your proof that it is good to professionalise the army is what is being debated today in the Federal Republic of Germany. Wait a minute for them to finish the job. You see they don't rush like roaches in front of the ore, like we do, but they're still discussing it. And you know an interview with a Russian military official's politics still means nothing to the actual professionalization of an army that Russia may be doing. So your arguments are very thin. Your evidence is based on some analogies that simply don't stand. Be a little tighter there. Convince us that the people really want the professionalization of the military as you do and that they will join NATO. Here are the two questions you put on the referendum and then we'll talk in this same room after the results.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47884	The word is from Ambassador Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47885	Dear citizens of Serbia, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, today we are talking about two related topics that are very important. One is the law on changes and additions to military service, and the other is making a decision actually to suspend the military service obligation, in fact a decision on the complete, complete professionalisation of the Serbian Army. Since the Serbian Progressive Party MPs' Club Advanced does not fully share your opinion on your proposals, I will try to be critical in my presentation, but since it is about the Serbian Army that I highly respect, I will try to be maximum and extremely well-intentioned in my critical proposals. In his first part of the exhibition, the Honorable Mr. Minister spoke of the historic development of the Serbian army, but it seems incomplete to me, because it was only from Stefan the Prime Minister, the first king that, if it were the royal army, the minister was right, but the Serbian army was mentioned much earlier in documents by world travellers and world historians. So in 75 B.C., Plinier wrote in his file about Serbs before the new era, besides Cyberan, Meotica, Vali and Serbi live, and about 150 Claudija Ptolomei said in his file Geography, given that he was in geography, between the Keron Mountain and the Ra River are Orinei, Vali and Serbs. All these peoples had their armies and fought each other, mostly for territory. For the first time, the Serbian army was mentioned in a historical file, the highly educated Byzantine Emperor Constantine of the Seventh Porfirogen, who wrote in his work that Serbs had moved with their army and with their population around Thessaloniki, under the approval of Emperor Iraq in 610. Serbs have always had their own army, since Serbs exist and the Serbian army exists, whether it was a nomadic, mercenaries, renting, military-owned, people's army. All the nations at the time had their armies, practically all the capable men made that army. It is not necessary to forget the great army of Stefan Nemanje, to forget the army of Emperor Dushan, which was the last Serb army to have conquerive character. After that, the Serbian army never conquered, but only defended its territories. The army of Prince Lazar should not be forgotten, before Mrnjavčević. Nor should the battles fought by those armies, Marička and Kosovo battles be forgotten. Until 1883, when a truly active Serb army was established on the basis of a military obligation and that date, that year is considered to be the beginning of a people's Serb army, as the beginning of an active Serb army formed on the basis of an obligation to serve the military term. That this army was good, also shows the First Balkan War, when we finally freed ourselves from Turkish slavery and freed ourselves, as the last part of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija in 1912, then the Second Balkan War when we defeated the Bulgarians who attacked us from behind after the end of the First Balkan War. Not to mention World War I, when we proved to the whole world that a small, but well-organized army could at the beginning of World War I master a far more numerous and more equipped Austro-Hungarian army in famous battles of Kolubara, Cer, etc. To show the whole world again, by conquering, breaking the Thessaloniki front and breaking in at a violent rate towards the release of Serbia as a whole. An army that had previously been avoided, sick, tortured and exhausted, to the satisfaction and praise of many European Allied generals, who miraculously marveled at so much fire, strength, and will of a small army to free their country. We should not say that even after World War I, our army was organized, but as an army of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, until the beginning of World War II, when, of course, they turned their backs on us, as often in history, Slovenians and Croats, who stood by Hitler and against then Yugoslavia. Later, after World War II, a communist JNA is created. It should be said that both in World War I and in World War II, Slovenia and Croatia were freed by Serb soldiers, in World War II, Serbian and Montenegrin soldiers, although they were on the opposite sides of both the majority of the Croats and most of the Slovenians. The Serb army has re-consolidated until the NATO Pact attacks, when we have indeed tried to defend Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, Serbia's politically poorly-led army was defeated in the war, but however NATO generals, some immediately after the war was over, and some later in their memoirs admitted that the Serbian military had been skillfully and courageously waging war in Kosovo and Metohija against a far more numerous enemy made up of almost all NATO pact countries. The latest public opinion polls over the past few years show that the Serbian Army has a significant reputation in our society and is highly quoted. All public opinion polls show that the military had a large and large rating, even in one period, of course, it changed depending on the date, but in one period it was evened almost with the Serbian Orthodox Church. The evidence is that as many as 98% of recruits have responded to military calls in the last generations of recruits, which in itself is sufficient evidence of the Serbian Army's popularity. Why, then, does this nation’s active army, based on the military service obligation, want to be abolished? The question is, does it want power or does someone else dictate it to us? I'd say that's the second solution. I don't think most of the generals of the Serbian Army want that. I would not agree with the minister that most Serbian citizens consider full military professionalisation the best solution. No, that information doesn't exist for me and how I doubt that information, I don't think it's true. I think most of the Serbian people want to have their own people's army to guard its borders. Honestly, I think NATO designed this kind of military professionalization and I think it's quite clear. That is also logical, because no one needs a strong Serb army today, except of course for Serbia. Why? I think it is also contributed by the public statements of the military, respected Mr Sutanovac, who is secretly seeking to enter Serbia into the NATO Pact, despite the Serbian Parliament's decision on Serbia's military neutrality. Of course, I would vote first thing tomorrow for Serbia's entry into NATO pact provided they give us back Kosovo and Metohija and guarantee Serbia sovereignty and territorial integrity. Of course, I'd vote first under those conditions, but if someone's taking KIM from us, and we're running in his arms, I don't think that's right. Our situation within Serbia and when it comes to borders is not bright. We have a problem with Kosovo and Metohija, which is insidiously slipping towards neutrality, full independence and separation, kidnapping of Serbia's work with NATO's pact. Not to mention that the KLA members immediately after the Serbian and Serbian military-police action fled from KIM and returned only when NATO pact members came to Serbia, returned and continued to do what they did. They burned and destroyed or severely damaged 150 Serbian churches and monasteries, hundreds and hundreds of Serbian cemeterys were destroyed, not to mention entire villages burned, settlements, Serbian houses. The hardest part is that many, many Serbs were killed and that more than 250,000 Serbs had to leave their hearths and move to Serbia as refugees, or displaced persons. Today, these same KLAs commit similar crimes, but unfortunately, they are sometimes assisted by KFOR members and Eulex members. The example is, for example, the destruction of our trafostations, or the relay cells of Serbia's telecommunications. It is not just about KIM, we have these days and statements by many politicians from southeastern Serbia, Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, the Albanian nationality, who openly say in talks with Belgian diplomats that the southeast of Serbia, or what they call Presevo Valley - Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja, should be composed of Kosovo, and automatically exclude themselves from Serbia's composition. That's what the president of Presevo municipality, Ragmi Mustafa, and Mr Orhan Rexhepi said in a conversation with foreign diplomats from Belgium. Let me just remember what my esteemed colleague Zoran Babic of the SNS said, that 28th time only Albanian flags were viorated in those places, and it is smart enough for a smart man to conclude what such people think about Serbia's unity and the accession of that part of Serbia to some independent Kosovo. What about the Raca area? Let's remember the Serbia-Turkey game. How many young people of Muslim religion went out into the streets and yelled – this is not Serbia, this is Turkey? No Serbian flag, only Turkish flags in a continuous procession of car columns celebrating Turkey's victory. I got the impression that we are not in Serbia, but in the middle of Turkey, in the middle of Istanbul. Of course, I am fully aware, and I have no illusions that the ruling coalition will vote this law or this proposal, although I am sure that many of my colleagues, and this could be seen in part from their discussions today, do not fully agree with this decision and with the amendments and additions of this law. I am also sure that the vast majority of the Serbian people do not want full professionalisation of the Serb army, but wants the Serb army to remain part of the stand, part of an active army, and part of the people's army, as it has always been. I will list several examples of countries that have not led to the professionalization of the military, although they are far richer than we are and much more developed than we are. Col. Samardzic spoke of Switzerland, which is neutral, which has 130,000 soldiers, of which only 5% of the professional soldiers, but I will mention the example of Greece. Greece has 180,000 soldiers, no great reason for holding such a large army, with the obligation to serve the military deadline, no threat of Serbia, unfortunately, there is no Greece. Germany too. I'm not sure when Mr. Secretary says that Germany is involved and is considering professionalising the military. No, we are considering semi-professionalisation of the military, which is a good example and what would be a good experience for Serbia as well. Turkey is a second force in NATO military arms pact, by modernisation, by its army's numerical composition, and there are no special risks and some special threats and it also has an obligation to serve the military term. In Germany, a mandatory military deadline is also being applied, I have already noted, although it is one of the wealthier countries, which is one of the EU's main pillars. The Serbian army should, given the situation in which Serbia is located, have a semi-professional army. Professionals should be officers, officers, an assembly that handles expensive war techniques, machinery and machinery, as well as the composition of special military units, as well as members of the intelligence service, as well as officials of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. One part of the regular composition should really be professionalized, so we always have the Serb Army's fist of impact. It would be a professional army in a permanent working relationship, but a good part of the Serbian Army should be recruits at the mandatory service of the military term. The introduction of about 2,000 voluntary soldiers is not enough for a country like Serbia. I think it would be better to introduce between 20,000 and 30,000 voluntary soldiers who would get decent military training and be prepared to be available to the General Staff and the Supreme Commander in reserve. It is foreseen here that in the event of a direct war threat, the president of Serbia can reintroduce the military service obligation, but the practical question arises – how to train these young people at such short intervals? It seems completely impossible. One thing that is very important should be said, which was also spoken of by the distinguished Minister Sutanovac, which is that military professionalisation must monitor the modernisation of equipment and weapons. That's really true, but that's not the case with us. We are too poor a country to invest huge financial resources in modernising military equipment and weapons. It can only be afforded by rich countries, Serbia certainly does not. In our case, professionalising the Serbian army, when we do not have the conditions for modernisation, means a practical weakness in Serbia's defence power. That's what's very, very important to point out. Poor countries, such as Serbia, which do not have the means to constantly and continuously modernise their military equipment and military weapons, must rely on mass, i.e. on the obligation to serve the military term as the only element left to it because of lack of financial resources, because the weaponry according to the latest technologies and standards must be continuously renewed, for which Serbia, as we all know, does not really have any funds. In view of the government's decision to fully professionalise the military, was it taken into account the fact that the last generations of recruits even 98% responded to a military call? The motive existed, it still exists. Then what's the problem? Then why are you canceling your military service obligation? At the same time with the lack of defence power, which I am deeply convinced of, because I will mention what the minister said again, and I will apostrophe it, that military professionalization is possible only if regular modernisation of military equipment and weapons is carried out. We are undermining Serbia's automatic defence power, but by abolishing this military service obligation, we also abolish a beautiful tradition in Serbia, abolishing military service, a holiday for every family that has male children. It was very proud to serve the army, and young people grew up in the army. They were becoming men from the boy. Many girls in these parts did not want to marry young men who did not serve the army for various reasons. It was a shame for the family, but it was an honor for all the families who had children. I proudly escorted my eldest son to the army a few years ago, and I hope to escort my youngest son, now eight years old, to the active Army of Serbia. I'm not sure this power will last forever, and I think the next government will think this through and introduce a semi-professional army. So professionalization, yes, but partially, not as complete as you demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47886	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47887	I must say, with all the patience I've shown, I didn't understand what your objection is and what is a semi-professional army? So half to be a professional and half not to be a professional, semi-pregnant? The reputation of the army, I think I'm the most invited to speak in this room. I'm going back to 2007, somehow that year is my rapper for everything. The response to military service is 65%. There are expected to be 100% possible in December, so if it is respected that the military has always had a high reputation in society, you know perfectly well that it was not so. You know as much as I do, maybe better than I do, because you're older, and I'm saying, in 2007, we met with as many affairs and with as many extraordinary events that haven't been solved today, that the whole system threatened to collapse. I didn't make up a wing. A Serb goes into soldiers, three beats him and two wolves. It's something that's existed since the 1980s, and I'm telling you, if you ask a little question, only in this House who didn't serve the military, you'll find it very interesting that you're just discussing how the army should be strengthened, and alone or not they or their children have served, not to mention that we had a situation that the highest state summit didn't serve the army. Around Germany, I'm telling you, you don't have to believe me, but if you don't know international relations, you've shown by saying that Turkey has no challenge to the risks and threats that we have, so why would they need such an army. If you just look at some sites, I believe you can, you'll see that they have monthly casualties often bigger than we do in five years, so that thing doesn't stand. Let's analyze it together, since I put it all off. Is it something else I'm talking about the same number of compositions, if you think the army needs to increase, is it better dressed individual and unit saved if they're in the army professionals or recruits? Of course, if they're professionals. Is the higher degree of operational capacity of that unit? Of course it is. If it's a higher degree of operational capacity of that unit, then it's a higher degree of operational capacity of the entire army. Is it better if the unit is filled with trained composition, professional composition throughout the year, or that the unit is replaced every three months? Is it better that on one team every three months we replace the whole team or do we have one team that's compact and who's been practicing for many years or not? Of course it's better to be more compact. Do professionals or recruits have greater responsibility in performing their duties at the service of the military? Does the recruit have a relationship with what he owes in the same way as a professional, who knows that that rifle will still be with him after six months, and after a year and two years? Who better maintains military weapons techniques, military equipment, did those who came because they had to or those who defined themselves to work on it sign a contract and for many years will work on it? Is the relationship to that property identical or not? Is the base for senior officers better than professionals or the young men who came because they had to come? Is it better to use someone who's willing to do something or under duress? Do you think anyone works better because they have to or because they want to and love? That's a big difference. Do you think we should pay for training all the time and let them go home or pay people their salaries, hire a part of Serbia that pays taxes, buys, provides its families, etc? In peace missions, I told you already, we can't hire soldiers who are on military service, but exclusively professionals. We will agree that peace missions are the interest of all armies of the world, including our armies of the world, our country and all of us. Are food costs higher for a professional soldier or for a soldier who's on military service? A professional soldier comes to work like you, though, comes a little more often. He comes from Monday to Friday, but before, and a professional soldier buys himself food like they buy themselves food and cops. A soldier who comes to military service has everything, I say, paid. Is it reduced the cost of clothing, shoes, heating energy, showering, for an army that is professional or for an army that is recruiting? Are we going to have a smaller number of training centres or a larger number? Are we going to have a bigger administration with an army that you're proposing or a professional army? These are all questions we've been considering for three years. These are all questions that have a single answer. We have already consulted those who are in front of us on all these questions. Thank God, we need to consult those who are ahead of us. As much as our friends are behind us, they can't help us with something we're in front of. I understand the problem in which our society is to be broken, to be modernised in one segment that was, I say, in one period very conservative and slow, but I don't understand why you're asking for support from MPs within other parliamentary groups, when I know that there are people in your parliamentary group who don't support you? I know there are people in your parliamentary group who prefer to vote for this law for many reasons. I don't want to name and last name. I have contacts with all of you, you know that. I understand. We'll meet in the election. I am sorry that Tomislav Nikolic is not here today, because I think it is relevant that we talk about something that is serious in this country, because he will have to go to the citizens of Serbia tomorrow and say, "We are abolishing the professional army and we are introducing military service, and you are voting for us." I can't wait to hear it from Mr. Vukic and Mr. Tomislav Nikolic. Honestly, I'm paying enough attention to you, but as you don't trust me with Germany, I don't trust you to have the capacity to make that kind of decision in your party and I don't think you're going to decide whether or not you're going to have to go to the election with the platform of abolishing the professional army and re-invoking the call for recruits, because I'm afraid you're going to have to change the party at that opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47888	Right on line, MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47889	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I will try to choose in the replica a more polite word than you. I don't know how you found out there's no unity in our parliamentary group when it comes to this issue of military professionalization. I don't know, you have to explain to the public Serbia, but to us, too, if you're... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: "Secret." Secret? I'm guessing it's military intelligence. Obviously, you didn't listen to me, or you didn't realize what semi-professional military means. I've said it nicely, and you've agreed with me in your presentation, of course, that no war technique should be left to recruits. I said it would be a professional composition, an old band, handling expensive weapons, war equipment, machinery, etc. I also said that one part of the army should be professional, that it would be a fist attack, but most of Serbia's army should become in the recruiting system, i.e. it has an obligation to serve the military term. It is, Mr. Minister, a semi-professional army whose economic situation in Serbia is now fully appropriate. That's what I was talking about, and I hope you understand that now. As for Turkey and Turkey's comparison with Serbia, you said Turkey has more challenges than Serbia. Please, you're absolutely wrong. Turkey has no problem with KIM, there is no problem taking part of the territory, and there is also no problem and the desire of a part of the population who wants the territory on which it lives to separate from Serbia and join an independent Kosovo. That's what I was talking about, and I think we understand each other completely. I don't see what your misunderstanding is all about. So I ask you, in your presentation, if you want to continue to lead the controversy with me, to use the things that have been checked, not the things you said- said, how someone in our parliamentary group doesn't have an opinion like me. As for my competence to represent a parliamentary group on this matter, leave it to our parliamentary group, that's our internal matter, certainly not yours, because I have no doubt in your competence, I never questioned it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47890	Two minutes. Thank you. Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47891	Since this isn't a replica, I just want to interpret something because it's not very clear to me. So, as far as I understand it, and as far as I'm concerned, we'll have the Parliament's decision and I believe that most will vote for the military to be professionalized and thank you for all of us who do this work. So, for the next election, we'll have one platform, several parties that I've heard here, which will say that calls should be returned and military service obligations for those who are military bonds returned. That's what I'm interested in, just so there's no confusion. So, we're about the military to be professional, to have the army formed according to the most modern standards, you're about the military, in addition to that professional act, to have an ideal that, under duress, will have to serve a military term. Just to be crystal clear, since I say we'll meet again in the future, not after you didn't mean it, so very clearly. Your proposal to reform the defence system in a situation where you plan to come to power will be to return to your military service obligation. Crystally clear, I'm glad I heard that. I have never compared Serbia with Turkey, nor can we compare Serbia and Turkey, I just said that I understand that you know about KIM, that you have read our history, but I said that Turkey is also in certain challenges and risks and threats that are extremely delicate and very serious and they are very responsible for it, so that what you say simply does not stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47892	National MP Borislav Pelevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47893	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you're talking about the election again, and I completely understand. You have before you the election for the vice president of your party and in these elections I wish you many successes. But leave the SNS election campaign. We will lead as we know it and know it and we will try, and all public opinion research says that we will succeed, that we will defeat you in the next elections and take over power in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47894	The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47895	Dear Mr. Minister, dear associates, the Honorable President, the honourable Members of the People, to legitimize myself immediately, I served as an army in the King, after somewhere else. I think the topic is important and that it is politically very sensitive because we are in one new step of the reform that has been going on in the military for the past few years. I'd like to start by researching the public opinion Mr. Pelevic is calling on. Right, in these surveys, the public opinion of your party's coalitions and Bogoljub Karic is currently in favour, but according to these surveys, there is also an army of institutions which is one of the most respectable institutions in Serbia today after the church's institution. It's right at the top. I think it's the citizens' recognition of what's been done in the ministry and the military for the past few years. We are not afraid to politically launch topics that may also not cause the majority mood of citizens at this time about how some of us think, but also the military was an institution that had lost its reputation to a few years ago, where every few soldiers were ordered to commit murder, suicide, that someone killed them because they were guarding some military facilities. I believe these things will soon be revealed. Things are changing, and that is why we will support the draft law on the abolition of compulsory military service, because we believe that this is an important step in the process of establishing an army institution as a factor that will contribute to the improvement of this society, not as a factor that will burden Serbia's future. It was some army they were calling on, a large one, and it had recruits, etc., that embezzled Serbia and the Serb people during the 1990s, and it was not known whether the Serb army was, or what it was defending, and who it was defending, or who it was defending from. It ended tragically and in one of the worst ways possible to undo all the victories that the former Serb army had won before, and that is why it is a time we remember with great disappointment and bitterness. We also remember that, regardless of the songs about how much they were happy or not going to the military, that most people were looking for every possible way to avoid calling for mobilization, that people were either running from their own apartment, or that they were fleeing from their own country, and that you forced them to serve the army and to fight where a political summit determined it. At first, I will say that I personally think that I am not in favour of deciding whether Serbia should be or not be a NATO member because in 1999, no citizen of Serbia took the referendum to ask them whether they were in the mood to be bombed 78 days by NATO, or whether they wanted to end the war with NATO after 78 days. It is important that military professionalisation is a step in stabilising political and economic opportunities in Serbia. Today when we talk about the military, we talk about a branch that encourages Serbia's exports, I'm talking about a factor that promotes political stability in Serbia. So, it reduces the level of political instability and every foreign investor when it invests in Serbia, every bank that credits the economy or citizen of Serbia and decides on the margin of credit that companies in Serbia will pay or how much individuals will pay in relation to some basic capital price through the eurobor or the libor, she says -- here is low political stability, the margin will be 4, 5.6 or 7%. Certainly, the role and position of the army in Serbia also affects the daily lives of the economy and the citizens of Serbia, and as it takes a clearer position in the future, political stability will be much higher and these risk premiums paid by citizens or businesses when they take loans from foreign banks will be lower. So it's also about some of the effects that are important in everyday life. What's particularly significant is that in the last few years, awareness has changed what the military's potential really is. It is not an army of groups that should defend Serbia against any issue of future war, a force that prevents potential aggression against our country, but above all, it is an institution that can bring some benefits to society, much greater than it has been in some past period. I have to say that in the last few years, the military and the Ministry have had significant results on this military plan and on the economic plan, on the agenda of this military industry, on the foreign policy agenda, in the fact that you can sometimes communicate certain political messages and more effectively than can be done through classical diplomacy. So our decision or some subsequent government will be what kind of society in Serbia we want to have, whether we want to be part of Euro-Atlantic integration and to fully integrate this country into that concept, which I believe most citizens are or want to live constantly in an environment, as one of the speakers said earlier, potential threats, wars, conflicts, etc. I don't think there's any war left to lose. Anyone who's led in the last 10 or 15 years has lost, with all that great and powerful army. The strategy has to change. We lost Kosovo in the war with the NATO Pact. The strategy has to change. We need to see what the future is and what we can do in the next period and how the military can contribute to making Serbia a more serious, organised, more respectable force. I am convinced that the military has done more with its actions over the past few years to correct Serbia's image, not by firing any bullets, but by the great army that lost all those wars before and eventually to conflict with the NATO Pact. When we talk about military professionalization, we're also talking about security being no longer a shared category. You can't say -- this is our country, we're defending Serbia, we don't care what's going on in Romania, in Bulgaria, in the Czech Republic. You've seen these days how one man can shake the entire security system in the world. So one individual, who managed to get hold of the telegrams that the American embassies sent to Washington or vice versa, managed within 24 hours to pretty much shake the international order. These things should be fought against by common security systems in the future. If an individual was able to get into a system like that, who doesn't guarantee that tomorrow some other lunatic can't get hold of some nuclear bomb, rocket or some kind of asset and seriously endanger the world's peace? No country can respond to such threats individually anymore. Such threats can't be answered individually by the United States, because this case has proved to be the greatest military force in the world. So that's what we're talking about. The world is moving towards a different climate in the future, towards new challenges, to new threats. We've often heard about how our place is in some other alliance, etc. Then what did Russian President Dmitri Medvedev ask recently in Portugal, when a new NATO concept was adopted for the next 10 years? He did not go and say or ask Serbia to approve whether he could appear there, but as a serious president of his country, where strategic decisions are made, protected Russia's interest. He didn't sit in Moscow and say – we don't care. You don't read what's happening in the world today. You do not read that NATO and Russia become strategic partners, that they have a problem in the neighbourhood of Russia, which is the same problem for Russia and the United States, to co-operate in the fight against terrorism in Afghanistan, to give each other logistical support. Where's Serbia? Whose side are we on? We need to stay somewhere in the vacuum, not there, not here, as always when we've done it in the past. In the end, neither do the Russians respect us because we are as military neutral, and we are essentially not, nor do we look at the other side where we naturally belong as a country. When we talk about military neutrality, I have to say what a political context it was when a decision on military neutrality was made. This was the moment when the country went to one difficult political moment, when it was clear that Kosovo would declare independence, when it was interested in holding the presidential elections, when the other side estimated it would be better to wait for the presidential elections after Kosovo's declaration of independence, believing then that Tomislav Nikolic, as your candidate, would beat Boris Tadic and that a new government would form. Since then, gentlemen, almost all circumstances have changed. Neither Tomislav Nikolic is where he was, nor is he against the EU, nor are the DSS people in power, nor do they have their prime minister. So, circumstances have changed in Serbia, circumstances have changed in the world. The next elections, and here I support what Mr. Dragan Sutanovac said, are an opportunity for everyone to say where and what he stands for and after the next elections we expect that one of the first decisions of the government will be a proposal to the Assembly to abolish the resolution on military neutrality, because it is politically, economically and securely unsustainable. If in the election of winning the force they believe in, I am convinced that some who are members of the opposition here today will also be present at that session when we will abolish that decision because it is now clear that it is the politically unsustainable position of Serbia, economically, safely, however we observe things. The decision was then made because compromise was necessary at the time, so it was much more important for Serbia to get a democratic president and later a democratic government that would rightly face the challenge of declaring Kosovo independence than to talk about some things that were not a priority at the time. I think it is important to say that the international co-operation the military has through several projects is something that has really contributed dramatically to the rise of Serbia's reputation. So here I must also say that in 2006 we entered a partnership for peace, when the DS was an opposition party, that in 2006, the government then adopted a decision that allowed the president of Serbia to sign the SOFA agreement with then State Secretary Condoleezza Rice, which allowed us to establish good co-operation with the National Guard of Ohio. That's the facts. So that's when Serbia headed for Euro-Atlantic integration. In fact, it started in 2000, politically, but the core SOFA agreement and the Partnership for Peace are Serbia's first step towards Euro-Atlantic integration. When you're part of those two packages, you can't talk about being part of just European integration anymore. We work with our Atlantic partners through these agreements. Also, in June, we made a decision to send international missions of the Serbian Army to six delicate places in the world. It's within the UN. We are working on our military and police participation through EU missions. There's room opening up to help even where today is the hardest. I think that these are good things and that these are the potentials that this country in Serbia should use in the future. I would say one more thing, and it concerns decisions on when to make a decision, whether Serbia should become a NATO member. I'm sure you should. The new concept of security recently adopted in Portugal presents to us a new NATO that opens to both members and non-members. Co-operation between NATO and Russia is getting stronger. We saw it, as members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation, recently in Warsaw, where we had the opportunity to talk to both the President of the Parliamentary Assembly and other members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. So in this process, we don't have much room to stand by. We don't have time to lose and to drop the opportunities ahead of us, because that's an option. I am not sure enough to tell you, by joining NATO, we will be entering the EU two or three years earlier, we should not make such easy statements, but it opens up new channels of communication with partners you expect tomorrow to support you to join the EU. At the very least, NATO is today an army in Kosovo. If we're going to defend the Serbs at KIM, I guess it's the interest of this country to cooperate with the soldiers who are on KIM. Let me tell you that the only way for a Serb soldier to ever return to KIM in the future is to return as a member of NATO forces. Why is that? We can talk about it by tomorrow. Let's see how we can make things right tomorrow. I want to say that the economic aspect is also an important thing when we talk about entering Euro-Atlantic integration completely. The analyses show that all countries of the former Eastern Europe had a certain increase in foreign direct investment the moment they made a decision on full membership in NATO. It is simply a signal to foreign investors that it is a country that accepts new standards and that it needs to be invested there. I think it's also an argument that should be respected when a decision is made. Respecting, of course, one tragic past that the state of Serbia has, respecting the fact that we were here 78 days under bombs. We were all bombed together when we were shot. No one saw if we were members of this political party or that political party, are we young, are we old? But I am deeply convinced that this was the result of one wrong policy. If one of the wrong policies in 1999 brought us under NATO bombs, let's get some good things out of this bad experience, to open up a negative past perspective for some new generations that come to Serbia, not to keep making Serbia a country that in the permanent or smaller conflict with the most powerful countries in the world. We don't have the strength to be in that conflict anymore. Is he political, is he military, is he economic? No way. This country has 40 billion euros in GDP, five, six thousand per capita, 300 euros in average salary, and with these potentials, economic we can no longer be against everyone. We cannot survive as a black hole in the region, Montenegro, BiH, Macedonia tomorrow, and we will wait 10 years for Kosovo to be admitted to NATO, and we will sit in the National Assembly and talk about how military neutrality is the only sustainable position. For this reason, truly, sincere and full support of what the Ministry of Defence is doing, Minister Dragan Sutanovac, we know how difficult it is for him to work in certain political constraints, and best to know from all of us how much potential we lose because these political constraints exist. I brought something to show you, this is the last sheet, that is, the number of Harvard Busines rewiew, the number for November, where it's talked about, just to show where we are today, how the directors of large international companies can use military experience in running companies, the entire scientific studies are being made on this issue. There are no more boundaries between the military, the company, between security. This is what Serbia needs to benefit from, and these are the potentials that this country has. It's our decision whether we use it or not. I am convinced that we will use them in the future, taking care of everything that has happened in the past, but only as a negative reminder that we once as a state and as a people have sinned and that this never happens to us again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47896	Eighteen minutes and 30 seconds used by an authorised representative. I'm setting a break, finishing the afternoon work, and we'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first in line to get the word, and as president of the parliamentary group, will be MP Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] Gentlemen Members of the Parliament continue our session in the afternoon. Just to remind you that the National Assembly has been informed that, on the basis of Articles 90, Article 2 and Article 87, we will be working today after 1800 hours, and by the end of the debate of a joint principle and uniform search that is currently under way. Part of the session in which we are sitting is part of a session where the presidents and authorised representatives of parliamentary groups have the right to speak, and the word has been given by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47898	I'd like to ask what's going on with the minister. I think it would be my turn to have the minister present. I'd like to ask if we can wait. As for this serious issue, which first and foremost is about the consequences of the decision to abolish the military service, or the professionalisation of our military, this issue is not the first time set in Serbia's history and its military. In various historical moments, this question was raised, discussed, but it would not be bad to recall a little history, the history of the Serbian army. They say those who do not listen to the life teacher later face the problem, and apparently what the defence minister said about the Serbian military's history that it was tenorous and that some very important facts were left out. For the sake of MPs and Serbian citizens, I would mention that the beginning of the creation of the Serbian army begins in the 1804th year, the beginning of the First Serbian uprising, but already in 1806, Serbian rebels have turned to the Russian emperor for help. Volunteers arrived in Serbia that year. Also, to remind citizens and MPs that after the nuclear peace, Russia became the sponsor of Serbian autonomy. Since then, it has organised a Serb army fully modelled by the Russian army. In 1836, for the first time, 12 Serbian young men were sent to school for offices in Russia, and throughout history until 1918, reforms were carried out in the Serbian army, as the goal was to obtain an appropriate army that would succeed in protecting Serbia. I have to tell you that during that period, it was not too much of a concern to say the Minister of Military or Public Works, or the building, as it was called at that time, to be even one Frenchman, because the French were in matters of military science and the military had extremely observed results. Normally, there were influences from both Austria and Prussia, all of which had one single goal, to get an army that would manage to protect Serbia and solve the basic problem that Serbs had, which is to unite all Serbian territories still in certain parts of Turkey's occupation. As far as the SRS is concerned, there is no dilemma, whether or not professionalization. Yes, we are for the professional army, in these conditions and in this time Serbia needs a professional army, but whatever it is, we call on all those who stand for the military to volunteer to serve the military deadline and thus show their attitude towards their own state. But now let's sort of think about what's happening to us and see what's behind this? What are the motives for this kind of reform of Serbia's army? You all know that the reform began in 2003, at a time when Boris Tadic was the defence minister. To remind you that they were then going to destroy all tanks of T55, although theSDPR had a reconstruction program, that is to say, for revitalization and that these tanks could have been taken with relatively solid money, instead of going like old iron to Smederevo and being soaked. Just to remind you, it's been changed to a caliber, to remind you that the anti-aircraft system, so on. The Arrows, which is the defense system. There was no reason for this system to be destroyed, except that it was a serious danger for those who would go and fall. Among other things, thanks to these "Strelam" American Cobra helicopters that were stationed in Albania, they haven't even tried to fly across our border. Acts have been introduced modelling the NATO Pact, and this is now all about a motive that is unequivocal for Serbia to be introduced into the NATO Pact, i.e. to become a NATO pact member. These military reforms will not serve Serbia, they should serve NATO's pact, as they are strictly implemented according to their demands. There's absolutely no dilemma. Why is Serbia, or the Serbian NATO Army needed a pact, that is, America? Well, he does dirty work for them. To war or already on open battlefields to replace American soldiers and soldiers of Western lands. You don't think they think they respect or respect the Serbian army in any way. If that were the case, it shows what they've done since 2000, since they were so-called. democratic parties have come to power. What about General Staff? What was it that restored those who beastly destroyed Serbia? They boast that some schools have restored some places in Serbia. How much damage has Serbia suffered in travel, electricity, economic infrastructure? Our dedicated industry, what they did to show they were really Serbian friends. Not that they haven't done anything but make it clear that they will do anything to fully disintegrate Serbia. They were the first to enter Kosovo and Metohija, and among other things, to raise their Bondsteel base there. By whose authority? Who'd they ask about that? Is that in line with the UN Charter? International law? No, I don't. They aim to destroy Serbia and they will not stop on that path, so they are taking away Kosovo and Metohija, so they are doing everything to slowly take Vojvodina through secession and prepare some more ends. You still have a chance to read in the paper today, these three municipalities in southern Serbia. As far as the Raske area is concerned, there's no dilemma about what's coming to us. Especially interesting, what should we know, what is the price that we will have to pay to keep our army fully in line with NATO's pact standards? How much money is that? Because, to be clear, our dedicated industry has been fully relied on, to a large extent, Russian technology, i.e. Russian dedicated industry and Russian weapons. How much will it cost Serbia? No one's thinking about it, but you're going to put people in a position to simply ask themselves to go to war stations because it's the only way they can make money. It's nothing weird. You have that day and day, when there is no possibility, when it's even against the law that people from this area go into the world to various battlefields and fight for money. What is evident – America has created a policy of modern garners. But she's far more unfair than Turkey did. They took their children away, they trained, they supported them, and they made soldiers of them. They work the other way around. That's all we do, and they'll use them for their purposes. In doing so, it has been said that NATO has no alternative, that this is a done deal and that it is no longer to be discussed. Then the question arises – how does the representative of the executive authority put out the resolution adopted by the Council of the Republic of Serbia in 2008? I don't want to get into motives right now, because it's completely pointless. The resolution was passed and it was brought with 220 votes "yes". What's with the outcry of the legislative authority? No one will ask, we will enter the NATO Pact. That shows serious problems at the Department of Defense. Serious civilian control issues. Let me remind you. Day 30. 12. In 2008, the then chief of staff was appointed because a decision was made on the Committee on Defence and Security that the civilian control of Serbia's military had been compromised. Then he was Chief of Staff, now he's the Secretary of Defense. This must be taken seriously when all statements by the defence minister are taken when it comes to the NATO Pact. Let's see this question – NATO has no alternative, or the European Union has no alternative. He's got an alternative. I have shown the beginning of history here, or I have told the beginning of the history of the creation of the Serbian army, and when you see it, that is, when you hear it, it is a very clear situation that happened when Joseph Biden came. At that time, the Serbian authorities defended Beyden from what Serbian citizens would have to say, even went and asked to barricade their windows or to bring down the blinds. And the exact opposite was when Russian President Medvedev came, when they prevented the people from coming out and showing their brotherly feelings for the Russian people and for President Medvedev. But what's an alternative to NATO's pact? The organisation established in the UN was admitted to the UN in 2010, founded in 1992 and has a completely different policy, which, when it comes to Serbia, is completely appropriate for Serbia – it is the ODKB. It's a country decision on collective security. What's especially interesting to us, that's the way the ODKB works. You see, their primary goal is to strengthen peace and international and regional security and stability. Ask the question immediately – is it the same in the case of the NATO Pact? It's not. Since the end of World War II, the NATO Pact and America have, as far as I know, caused about 22 wars in the world in all world spaces. We're in favor of an organization that advocates the security and stability of the world. What is especially important to us, which is to defend the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of every country. Ask a question – does NATO have the same goals? Is he also in favour of the sovereignty of every country? Did NATO respect the UN Charter in 1999 when it criminally bombed the SRJ? It's not. In no case at all, the UN Charter and international law are under way. It's exclusively guided by its own interests. What is also very important to us is international terrorism. It is likely that, as a state, we will have bigger problems in this regard, and the ODKB has put it as one of its priorities – the fight against terrorism. But speaking of terrorism, let's take a look at this one problem the world faces. First of all, the ODKB is looking for the definition of terrorism, terrorism and who are terrorists. For what? I'll give you two examples. One Shiptar who emigrated to America has been accused of planning terrorist acts and has been convicted in accordance with the laws of the United States. I don't have any dilemmas here, that's fine. But many Shiplars carried out terrorist acts in 1998, 1999, in 2000 and still do them. Are they terrorists for America? No, they're not. You know, the KLA was a terrorist organization for a time. He was even on the list of American terrorist organizations. Among them, their leadership – Ceku, Thaci, Haradinaj, that I do not count on them, personally committed crimes. Suddenly they turned into freedom fighters. And those who defended their own country, their own people, were sent to The Hague to answer for it. Second case. Cechen, who was arrested in Belgium, who was also planning terrorist acts, was also convicted. And Chechens when they stand up in Chechnya or Russia, when they lift trains, apartments or other objects into the air, they're freedom fighters. In a world with such double arches as NATO's Pact to Serbia, it is absolutely no place in the NATO Pact. What our citizens should particularly know, in the case of the ODKB, under their statutes, in the event of an attack on any member of the ODKB, all members will be considered at risk by the one who attacked their member. You have the case of Greece and Turkey, so make sure that NATO respects those decisions. What is particularly interesting for us and our citizens is that there is a decision that Russia will activate its nuclear strategic forces in the event of aggression on any member by the NATO Pact. This essentially enables the security of each State and each member of the ODKB. I would point out one more thing, very problematic when it comes to ODKB, which is the conduct of this assembly. Nearly a month ago, on October 27th, the Serbian Parliament received a call from the president of the ODKB Assembly, otherwise Russian Duma President Grislov, to visit the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegation. It was hidden from the MPs of the Serbian Parliament until we were able to get a photocopy of that letter, because apparently it wasn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47899	People's MP, please do not lead the public astray or if you do not have the right information about who made the call and who, I suggest you ask for information from the Secretary General of the National Assembly, Mr. Veljko Odalovic, since this is what you have brought forth so far is false and public deception.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47900	That's the whole truth. Here's a question -- did the president of the assembly get a new letter, also from the president of the ODKB Assembly, Mr Grizzlov, to send his delegation in May 2011? I ask a simple question -- what are the reasons why we can co-operate with the NATO Pact Assembly, and we can't work with the ODKB Assembly? What are you afraid of, what reason is that? Because your mentors, or your bosses, do not allow you, because it is the only way out for Serbia and they are aware of it and that you are trying in every way possible to prevent Serbia from finding a way out and connecting with its friends, above all with the Russian Federation and thus choosing a better position for itself, which will enable at some point to restore everything that has been kidnapped and to protect its sovereignty and integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47901	Dear People's MPs, before we continue our regular work, notice of guests at the National Assembly gallery. Today's part of the session, currently, from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of National Assembly, followed by students from Kruševac, and this - students of the Central Music School "Stevan Christić": Smojana Mitrović, Jovana Jefić, Miljana Savić, Justina Stevanovic, Anastasija Jovanovic, Valentina Burgić, Marina Bašić, Nemanja Angelović, Milena Damjanović, Nadja Miljković, Žurdžica Gojković, Tijana Trnavac, Stefana Skagić, Natalija Makragić, Maša Nedeljković, Ana Stefanović, Milena Zlatić, Jelena Stoilović, Jelena Stoilović, Angelina Labanović, Zara Draganović, Katarina Krnežević, Tamarić, Tamar Živić, Živić, Sanja Popjan Popović, Sanja Popović, Sanja Pović, Sanja Vvić, Ivana Švić, Ivana Švić, Ivana Švić, Mila Švić, Mil, Milić, Miljadić, Milić and Ivana Švić. Welcome to your house, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Minister Dragan Sutanovac has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47902	If you'll excuse me, just one more of the statistical information. In fact, Serbia has been facing the problem of surplus killings for 20 years. Practically since the beginning of the war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, we have a situation that a large amount of weapons, military equipment, as well as murderous funds, not adequately stored in our country have been brought in. At the moment we came to the Ministry, that figure was about 9,000 tons of killing funds that were located outside the warehouse, or in the open space. As you know, we had a major explosion in Paracino in 2006, if I'm not mistaken. Similarly, a long time ago, in the 1990s, happened in Bulgaria, happened in Albania, and a number of Arrows 2M was destroyed as part of the destruction of unspective funds. I'll tell you how long when we're not on the air, but you know we have over 4,000 of those Arrows today, so there's just no record that they're all destroyed. On the other hand, when we talk about modern weapons and technology, when you say T55, it may not mean much to the citizens of Serbia or MPs, if we say that T55 is the mark of a tank that was made in 1955 and if we think it is modern and modern weapons, you can imagine in 1955 how modern and modern it was. Unfortunately, this is no longer used in modern armies. We have a little less than 500 tanks of T55, which is an extremely large amount, but one good part of them or a large part of them is actually inoperable and it's extremely unreservable to spend resources on modernising these tanks. On the other hand, we have about 300 tanks of M84. These are famous tanks that have been sold to Kuwait and that will be modernised in the Serbian Army and which are extremely high quality. About 300 tanks for Serbia's size, you practically can't develop military formation with that number of tanks, because you don't have space. To talk about destroying perspective weapons, which are 55 or 60 years old, is really illusory, because in the time in which we live fire management systems, TV cameras, computer equipment, software, hardware, etc., believe me, every day comes new and if you think that we rely on tanks T55, and I had last time even a grudge that we destroyed tanks T37, I have to say that this thing doesn't work and nowhere in the world is it. If you want, I can give you information and how much of it is destroyed in the Russian army. It's not a problem, I have that information, I know you'll be interested. I may be a little supple for colleagues who are here in parliament, but I want to tell you that the modern army is not counting on a kilo and a piece, as I said, and modern armies do not depend on the number of particular tools, but depends on what quality these tools are. The tools you mention are not the quality to meet the criteria of modern wars. Says the number of ground troops in the Russian Federation's army through various phases of reform has been reduced from 1890 to 182, from 240 to 120, and the Navy from 240 to 123. That doesn't mean they've reduced all operational capabilities. They've just reorganized their army, determined what's unspective and removed what's unspective, because it's abnormal to hold a crew for something that can't appear on any battlefield, if it's a clean target. There's a lot more, but I can see you're not in the mood to listen. I'll give you that in writing. They're giving me your colleagues, and I'm teaching you, and I don't want you to be nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47903	I ask the MPs to make an effort and listen to all the speakers, whether they are fellow MPs or ministers. National MP Dragan Todorovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47904	Mr. Minister, I don't want to teach you, I want to protect you. If I understood correctly, you said you couldn't say how much was destroyed, it's a military secret, but you said we have about 4,000 arrows, which means it's not a military secret. I really don't understand. The military secret is how much it's destroyed, and as far as we have it's not a military secret. Then we're the only army and you're the only minister who doesn't consider this... I think this is an injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47905	People's MP, you get the right to a replica for the things that are said. Please, MP, do not abuse the right to receive replicas. You have the right to a replica and you claim that the minister has said something that has not been said, so I ask you to use your right to the replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47906	Get a stenogram. Here, I accept to apologize to the minister if the stenogram determines that the minister didn't say we had 4,000, and that the military secret is how much we destroyed. I'd ask the question -- how much does one Arrow cost, because I was talking about Arrows.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47907	People's MP, I now warn you, since the remarks of military secrecy have been cast by your MPs and you have confused what has been said, I can tell you and which one of your MPs has been throwing that it is a military secret, I ask you to use your right to a replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47908	We'll take a stenogram, Mrs. Comic, so you'll have a chance to see what Mr. Minister said. I won't convince you at all. It's clear to me there's a Democratic Party Assembly and now there's some things I don't need maybe...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47909	National MP, I now warn you for the last time, since this is the most harsh possible abuse of the right to free word and the right to replication (Dragan Todorovic from the place: You are taking my time. I'm not wasting anyone's time. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Send these children away from the Assembly. ) For as long as I remind you that you are the same and the same as any other messenger of the people, I make it up to you. Please, as president of the parliamentary group, firstly, make sure that we respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and secondly remember that the right to the replica is obtained by the President and that the replica must, by substance, be related to the speech of whoever caused the replica. People's MP, I have twice warned you of respect for the provision of the replica, so I ask you to use your right to the replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47910	You'll see when you, if you want, look at the stenogram, that I was talking about anti-aircraft weapons - Arrows and that I was talking about tanks T55. Since we've absorbed that for the Arrows, let's get back to the T55 tanks. That's their mark. Not all are produced in 1955, some are produced later. What I mentioned, which you certainly know, is that the SDPR had a program of their revitalization. You know, every slave has its own customer. There must have been a possibility. Why would he pretend? Why would the SDPR, a serious organization, a serious institution, show it all the time of its existence and show it today? (President: Two minutes. How does two minutes stand at 1.05 minutes? (President: Because you've already used one minute, MP. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47911	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47912	I don't want to get into the controversy anymore, but I'd like every commodity to have its own buyer and everything we produce so we can sell. In that option, we could produce even more. Tank T55 wasn't every produced in 1955, but technology was from 1955. It's like the 486 computer you make this year, but the technology is 10 years old. So it's no longer in use and can't be used. Apropo Arrow 2M, I didn't say "military Secret", I didn't use "military Secret" for anything today. Otherwise, I don't use that term, so that's not true. I'll tell you that today we have two and a half times as many Arrows 2M than, by the documents that work for people who are skilled in that area, you should. Last time we didn't destroy, we found the buyer and we sold the surpluses. For what? Because destroying costs. So today we're paying for the destruction of certain funds stored in the meadow because there's no one to give it to. People won't take it as a gift and then we have to destroy it, and that destruction we pay. We're doing it in Kragujevac and we're trying to find some international funds that would allow us to do it with the assistance of someone from abroad. I know exactly what SDPR is doing. Believe me, you'll find it hard to find a fellow politician who knows better about weapons and military equipment and how to sell it all. We can have as much dialogue as you want and see the results you can present and compare, but the T55 tank cannot be painted and made of it to be useful to the Serbian Army in a situation where we have 300 M84 tanks, which are much better quality, and they should be modernised as well. So, taking one "fitch" and investing 5,000 euros in it doesn't mean it can be a pandan "golf". That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47913	Replica, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47914	Mr. Minister, you're saying that some resources cannot be revitalised because they are technologically exceeded. I ask the question why our moments of 29 are revitalized, why if it's over-tech, and it is compared to some much more modern hunters that exist? It's kind of not working, Mr. Minister. It's an indisputable fact. I know for a fact that we were able to revitalise those tanks and sell them. Why would SDPR do a program to do something he wouldn't have to sell to? Then you question the completeness of this SDPR. Who was it looking for? Someone had to ask them to do that program. How come none of them can be done and sold, but all of them go to Smeder's in the old iron? That's the problem we've had since 2001, when the representatives of the U.S. Army without any decision of the then government of the SRJ have visited our entire dedicated industry, acquired full insight into what is the state, what is being produced and since then we have only one option – to do only what Americans allow us to do and nothing more. It's their decision. It wasn't our decision because, by their judgment, we had to destroy it this way and we did it. Those are indisputable facts. You can talk as much as you want about obsolescence or not, but it could have been much more economical.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47915	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47916	I really think it's absurd to compare platform moments 29 and tank 55. You and I will agree, if I remember correctly, and you're an engineer and I'm an engineer, and I can explain it engineeringly, but let me tell you in practice that we have 300, slightly less, M84 tanks that need to be modernised. Why give money to modernize the T55 tank that can't be used, which is literally on the front of the target? You have military experts who are with you, ask, check with them why they would give money for such a thing, what logic is that? On the other hand, that story about how they went around on purpose and banned us from selling, and we're making the result better than ever. Serbia is now exporting more than when it exported within the SFRY. So, more now than our share that was part of SFRY. It's true that we lack the construction industry, but you have to know that the construction industry that we were then, I say, exporting, we didn't charge much, and now we're charging everything. If you have any knowledge that there is a buyer for T55 who wants to buy a modernized version, please come in and let me know who. There are 495 T55 tanks in Serbia's military. If you want, you can count it yourself. I'll open the door for you to count all the tanks. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: It is a military secret. It's not a military secret. If you are able to help sell it, I will applaud you here in front of everyone in parliament, in front of citizens who are watching, but talk about how we can make up something that is rarely used simply doesn't stand. We're trying to do this if we can remount and modernise the tanks we sold, which are the newer generations. Mig 29 is a platform that is still being produced as a new, modernized with new communication systems, according to NATO standard, with new radars etc., and then in that system goes with the same platform, but you can't tank, believe me, it's just impossible, and his engine is bad, and his transmission is bad and it's visible a lot, that I don't count.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47917	Replica, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47918	Mr. Sutanovac, you haven't convinced me, unfortunately. I asked you a simple question, and you're explaining that you're an engineer. You claimed something couldn't be revitalised because it was manufactured 10, 20, 30 years ago, which is not true. That's one thing. Secondly, there are resources that are in certain conditions for some good. You know, they're not good at cases where you meet well-armed armies, but there are countries that want in a different environment or different circumstances to have such resources. For them, they're good. There's one problem here that you're not going to admit or accept in any way, that everything we do, we're doing under patrol, that absolutely we can't take one single bullet out into any country in the world until we get permission from Americans. You know that well. Sometimes it's under the protection that weapons don't come into the hands of terrorists, sometimes because they're allegedly estimated to be in a country that needs to be sold that there's a possibility of a war conflict, but what's most important to us and most importantly, we can't decide on our own. We have been made by the Americans, and all that you have achieved, thanks to their approval. They've approved for the simple reason, so at least a little bit of us are being held above the water so they don't sink, and that's best seen by this budget rebalancing and by the lack we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47919	Ambassador Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47920	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry today that we are listening to a debate in Parliament that was held half the time by Mr. Minister and all the other MPs in the second half. You can't replicate and talk about every question. I would be pleased if the minister would listen to what the MPs think, what the parliamentary groups are, and of course it would be appropriate afterwards. This is how we have a debate all day long that lasts in parallel, a debate that is conducted with a single controversy between the minister and individual MPs. We know that today is a very difficult day for Serbia, when Serbia today loses something that was a big and heavy obligation, which it proudly received, it is an obligation to serve the military deadline. It was something honorable for Serbia, for every citizen of Serbia, and every Serb proudly went to the military, to the soldiers, every parent waited for the day when he would send his son into the army, although it was always both ticky and problematic, and there were wars, there were all but these obligations a small number of people gave up. Today, we are destroying an institution that, according to all the parameters of the Serbian citizens, has caused such respect and that the citizens of Serbia were most esteemed and that they always liked that we had a good army, etc. I think that Mr Sutanovac, the army minister, is an extremely brave man, when he decided on behalf of the whole of Serbia to propose to the government that military obligations be lifted, and the government is extremely brave to accept and recommend with that small majority in parliament that parliament, the small majority, should adopt it on behalf of all Serbian citizens. I don't think that the small majority can decide on such an important issue for Serbia, on an extremely important moment in the development of the Serbian people, on something that destroys our tradition, our obligations, our customs, and that this issue should be asked before the citizens of Serbia and that the referendum on this should be made known. This is an extremely important question for our country. I'm also hearing today that we're going to have 11,000 paid soldiers and well-trained. I am for the professional army, for the military to be both professional and well-trained, for the elders to be extremely trained, professional, etc., but our opportunities are not such that we can invest in high-tech, highly quality equipment in Serbia, so that we can meet that obligation. That's why the number of soldiers is extremely important in Serbia. Let's take a look at the lands around here. Kosovo, which is newly formed so-called The state, there are over 50,000 military taxpayers, both in regular and in reserve. Croatia has about 57,000 soldiers. We have 11,000, we will. However, that is enough, and perhaps not enough to defend the circle of two and this little grandfather, which is extremely important for this country. I mean, it's recently shown on a gay parade that 6,000 gendarmes of extremely equipped, ready, some kids went out there and broke it all down and did wonders, that the gendarmes couldn't stand up to 6,000 and there were problems. It barely shuts down and puts it in order. I am extremely disappointed now that the serious people in this country are seriously talking and thinking, they say -- the most ready for now in Serbia, as a military formation, is a hunting association. Unfortunately, that's right. We're talking about excess weapons here, weapons statutes, it's true. When was the last time the government or Serbia acquired some new military model aircraft? There's no money, I know it. I know there's no money and there's a big problem. I know you can't unmount missiles in the Ponikuas. I remember as a minister, I made the runways, I patched it up, we took out the mines, we finished it, but we couldn't get these planes with the weapons of battle away because they were buried in hangars and couldn't get out. I don't know if it's been done in the last months. I also know that we couldn't resist when we had attacks on our country because we didn't have adequate anti-aircraft defence that could protect the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It was funny to see that everything was shot and everything, and someone was hitting us quietly and quietly, and we were powerless just looking at it. Is there no money for that now? Certainly not, but we are now making a move that is not good for Serbia at this difficult time, in this cloudy time when the Balkans have been brought to the heat and let's not tell the story that it is a peaceful state. Let's not tell stories that we have achieved great agreements and agreements, that we have become significant in production, that in the production of gunpowder, in the production of some very significant, but in high-tech, completely insignificant. We don't have a chance, I know, I understand Mr. Minister that he would want us to have good equipment, but we have nothing to buy it from. We can't survive, let alone buy it. I know it's been a pain to watch the last few years when soldiers in barracks couldn't eat, let alone perform some more serious exercises. Maybe not in the last year or two, but I know that there was a major crisis in one period, when they were sent home on weekends, to simply reduce the cost of a military budget that was already extremely bulky for a country where the economy is in very difficult shape. But I also know that this is a hasty decision at this point and that it shouldn't have been made now and that this has had to be discussed much more and that some decisions may be made later, let's see what state it's going to be in. Therefore, we have a lot of problems and we all understand that, but every citizen of Serbia from now on will feel uneasy, will not be able to sleep peacefully in a country that we cannot protect and protect. I know, Mr. Minister, also that the military has, the Ministry of Defense, an extremely large asset, which unfortunately fails. And it was much, much more could be done. To make that property unnecessary from the government sell back to the municipalities, it's sad today, and it's miserable to watch barracks that are falling apart. I come from a town where I spent my whole life right next to the barracks "Tanasko Rajić", and close to the second barracks "Ratko Mitrović", which are today one of the city's mockery, grew up in weeds, from the bombing equipment remained at the best location and in the central street of the city, still standing by the gellers destroyed roofs, with big holes, abandoned cannons, tanks, some trucks along the main street in the city center, and that's one mess. Yes, that location, which is gold, stands today covered by this fracture, which no one visits, we don't have any soldiers there, at least I haven't seen it in years and the locations that are dozens of hectares in the inner city's narrow zone are in the weeds, civilians enter, ammunition is stolen, reselling, there's been wounding and a series of problems that have taken place. Unfortunately, that is true and that this issue of military property should be resolved very quickly, because Serbia can't allow once something that was elite in the state, the cleanest, most equipped, the most exclusive, I know as a child when I was passing through, playing around the barracks, when we watched it, it was all shining, and today with half-panned windows, with fallen roofs, with simply lit-up minors, it's really a mockery of the city. And there's something that needs to be done and there's millions that can be invested in equipment and new technologies, and that stands, and that's for sure and it needs to be done right away. So, today I'm not happy, some are looking forward to seeing, they're too happy, we're losing our military commitment, they don't have to be served, if someone wants to go to sleep there, to be, to kill time, of course, professionals who's a little bit will do their job as much as I can, and I believe that these people will do their job with honor and honesty, but there are very few. When we compare them to one Israel, which today has a hundred and a few thousand regular soldiers and a million and two hundred thousand spares due to the situation in the environment. When you look at countries in an environment, which are located in a very mobile state. When we used to talk, I remember as a soldier that we're all prepared to fight tomorrow and defend, go to military exercises, and defend this country, Mr. Sutanovac you may not, but I did and went proudly to defend it whenever they called us and never gave up a military call. I remember serving the army with honor and honesty, I served in Croatia. In the largest Ustasha town. When you came out to drink water, they came up to you and spit you in the face, but we were proud of it because we were soldiers of a serious state and we waited and we defended it whenever it was necessary and we responded to every call. But right now, we won't have that obligation and maybe it's funny to someone, maybe you're looking forward to saying it – here we have reformed the military. That's what some ministers were looking forward to when there was judicial reform. And now they see how much trouble, too, Mr. Sutanovac, like you, smiled and said -- here we are judicial reformers, we are bringing you reforms, this is what the EU says, and you'll be happy to have them from tomorrow, and here's what's become of the problem in the judiciary now, and now those who have been forced into these reforms say it's no good. You have to do it all over again. Now, for the army, no one's gonna tell us, everybody's gonna say hello and say, "well done, boys, that's the thing." It's just, you shut down your institutions, and we'll always say hello. So, if I don't, I won't rephrase, I don't care about this subject, this isn't about where someone's gonna score, getting some political points. This is a very important issue for Serbia, for its survival, for Serbia, which is now in big trouble, but unfortunately, those problems that need to be understood most do not understand. They're fighting for their party games, who's gonna be the boss who's in charge, they're fighting who's gonna keep their portfolio in government for a few more months, but what we're gonna do is that's the situation and we hope it won't be long. There is always talk of something that will just come and that any decision will make a much better life, much more joy for Serbia, however, there is nothing of it. Each decision makes more problems and Serbia has major problems on a daily basis. So, Mr. Minister, I repeat that from the beginning, you are quite a brave man when you entered all of this. Whether someone forced you to end this military obligation or not, but I'm telling you it's a bold decision and everyone who sits next to you and supports it, this is the right decision, but we're going to fix it very quickly. I hope that storm I sealed when my only son comes to the army, that I will open him up and escort him into the army, not to sit at my house and not serve what our ancestors have always served with pride. I hope that this other government will change very quickly and that Serbia through a professional army and a professional elder's staff will pay well, situationed, housing security, who will live and be proud of Serbia and have a military obligation, which Serbian citizens will always meet with pride and great dignity. I hope it comes very soon. So I hope this is passing, Mr. Sutanovac, and you did it. Maybe you didn't want to. I know you certainly don't want it in your soul, but the higher power, someone must have made you do it, but we hope to change it and it will be very quickly different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47921	Eighteen minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47922	We're joking a little bit, Mr. Ilic, if you haven't opened that barrel of brandy by now, don't open it. We'll make a plezer for you and your son to serve the army and don't have a dilemma. In general, we believe that there are enough young, mature, capable people in Serbia who want to serve the army. We just want to show that there is a voluntary service in Serbia. Which would force your son to serve the army when he's a patriot's boy, ready, capable, healthy, right and willing to serve the army. The only question is whether we're going to expand from 2,000 to 10,000 such patriots, as you say, and believe me, we will. Whoever wants to serve will serve the army. Don't have any dilemma. Now we're just trying to cut it so it doesn't cost too much. You know that – much wanted, much started. We're a little bit, so when those patriots come along that you say they're going to be in so many quantities, we're going to expand it. It's not a problem. What I want to tell you is, since you said something, and I see that you're not doing very well with numbers, so if you say that Croatia has 55,000 military taxpayers, we have a million and 700 thousand. So, a million and 700,000 reserves. You can't trust me to gather so many Croatians. There are about 18,000 of them in the army and 36,000 of us in the army. I read it all this morning, and I'm sorry you weren't there to hear it. On the other hand, I kind of feel like we're not in the minority. Today we heard the attitude from the SRS, which supports professionalization. This part of the O.R. supports, this part of the O.R. supports, somehow I think you have a measuring unit that doesn't measure adequately. So, simply a large majority of Serbian citizens, like today's MPs, support the proposal for professionalisation. I understand your concern and I understand your belief that we are brave, and we are brave and we want to change. If you're not brave, you don't have the courage to change. No reformer was with fear in his heart. Every reformer must be brave. You were going against Milosevic when you were with Grujic Davidovic, in the woods and mountains, and you showed courage. You weren't exactly a patriot to war on the side of the wax, but you were a patriot to run from Milosevic. I respect that, too. I respect all those who were against this policy and don't have a dilemma at all that's not the case. You say every young man is proud to join the army. It's a pretty fairy tale. That's not true. I'm sorry it's not true. I served the army, too. I wouldn't let anyone spit in my plate, like you said. Wherever I was serving the army, you understand, if someone were to encourage me, trust me, it wouldn't go well. I want you to know, and you haven't heard that since 2003, 90,000 young men have served a civilian army, 90,000 young men in Serbia didn't want to serve a regular army. Do we need to get the paperwork out of our country's borders for that? It's a huge number. It's important that we understand that we don't end the army or serve. We're just stimulating those who want to serve a military deadline and they'll have certain benefits, and personally, if you're interested in my personal opinion, I'd like to, I have two sons, I don't have a barrel of brandy like you, but I'd like to make a barrel of brandy for both of us when they go into the army. Don't have a dilemma at all, since they're three and a half years old and nine and a half years old, I'm teaching them to love Serbia and the Army of Serbia, and to know the anthem and to sing the anthem, and to love our folk music and to love the Serbian people and everyone who lives in Serbia. The kids are still, but they're still out of the O.R. To break crystal glasses. "), yes, to break glass of crystal and all that goes along with it. Believe me, if there's a chance, they'll give God, we'll drink that brandy together to join the army. On the other hand, you only know one thing. It's very important. Often military property is viewed as something that should be distributed to local governments, shared to someone, donated to someone, etc. It's not my grandfather's place to share, it's the property of the Republic of Serbia, the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia has that on the basis of our proposal. We signed the contract with the Municipality of Cachak, or the Directorate, to the House of the Army for certain financial resources. Whoever shows a desire to buy something, and especially local self-government, which has been declared inopportune for the Serbian Army, we want to alienate it, because it is our source of funds to determine housing policy, modernisation, etc. We, as you know, welcomed, said today and you were in that government, with 75,000 to 35,000 from 2004 to 2007. So, the army's down twice. How do you expect it to be the same number of barracks as it was in 2004? You took part in it personally. It just can't work that way. We're trying really hard, and I could list a whole list of local self-governments with which we successfully completed the property exchange process, as well as those Ponyks you mentioned, on which unfortunately the runway is not arranged, I wish it were, but it isn't. And we exchanged it these days, if not just today at the government, it was a decision to exchange with the local government of the city of Užica to provide donations to clean it up and put that airport into operation. However, what we are doing, we have completed a large base south, the largest base the Serbian Army has and the largest base in this part of Europe. It's a project that lasted about eight years, and we finished it in two years. We'll finish one big project next year, and that's the conversion of Morava airport. That's what everyone was talking about. That's what they made a lot of promises about. I'm telling you, next year we're going to have the first civilian planes to land between the Kings and the Caucus, more specifically with the Dark Ones. So you'll be able to travel to Belgrade and the plane from the next year when you go to the Assembly meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47923	The word has a folk letter from Nada Kolundji, president of the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47924	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry and the Army of Serbia, the ZES parliamentary group in the voting day will vote on the draft laws we have on the agenda today. Today, we are discussing four draft laws, although, of course, the greatest attention attracts one law, which is a law that we can call a law on abolishing the obligation to serve the military term. She is essentially the most important question. Every time in Serbia, especially in parliament, talk about something that involves the fundamental reform of society, we always get into a situation where those who say, and tradition, don't change, and we're used to something. There are others who say, you don't do it for us, you do it for someone else. There are thirds who say, not behind all this is some kind of international conspiracy. On behalf of the ZES parliamentary group, I would like to congratulate the ministry and the military on the reform, which, according to all international criteria, is considered to be the most successful reform in Serbian society, because in 2000, we promised Serbian citizens that we would implement a fundamental reform of the entire Serbian society. I do not want to state all the reasons that were binding and why this reform had to be implemented. I do not want to speak to what extent Serbia has been devastated by the state of the 1990s and to what extent its entire internal order and system has been destroyed. That's why I think military reform is one of the key elements of society's reform. That's also a political question. This is a political issue because you cannot reform society if one segment of society that has played different roles through its history and a different relationship with that same society has often been a estranged centre of power, very often there has been someone who has imposed the will of citizens. If you want to build a democratic society, then you cannot leave that very important segment of society outside essential political reforms. Therefore, the issue of military professionalisation is one of the elements of military reform and the abolition of the military service obligation is in fact the process of professionalising the military. Here, of course, again those who say, who want to claim that an 18-year-old who comes with training for two months can better defend the state from professionals who are trained to apply all new technologies, who is trained to know what military strategies, doctrines, etc. There are also, of course, those who want to bring it into connection with patriotism and the willingness to show patriotism and thus respond, as some here say, to a sense of moral obligation. The sense of moral obligation, we are now moving on to another important aspect when it comes to reforming the defence sector and reforming the military, is that this is, among other things, a democratic issue. The democratic question is that the military must not be someone who imposes rules on the citizen by which he will have to answer to prove that he is a patriot and is ready to defend the army. Only one who willingly wants to participate in this in the best possible way shows that he is a patriot. It's also democratic because the security system definitely has to, and it's one of the major steps made by this ministry, that it only proposed an act that has established civilian control over the security forces. In this way, we have done perhaps the strongest twist since 2000 precisely because alienation of the security forces is the biggest problem in the 1990s. So they were completely alienated centres of power that civil society had absolutely no influence whatsoever. At the same time, of course, reforming the defence and military system is also an external policy issue. It is foreign policy and because the position of the country, its credibility, the support it has in the world, among other things, is created by those who are outside reading what our messages are, are our intentions clear, are we building something in our defence system that will be part of a single defence system in the interest of everyone. That is why it is important that those assessments that come from the most relevant international factors are estimates that this segment of our society has carried out both in depth and in terms of a broad reform that deserves respect and respect. Of course, as the minister also said, one of the aspects of this reform is the economic aspect and that is best said by indicators. So I don't think we should give in to any personal feelings, whether or not we think it's more effective than not. Once again, I want to say that with special satisfaction we can say that this is not only rounded up by an important segment of military professionalization, but that we have fulfilled an election promise that we made to the citizens in 2000, which is extremely important, because the citizens expected it from us. Unlike some political representatives here, citizens understand the meaning of this reform, they support it much more than their political representatives here can understand, and citizens with a lot of confidence that shows exactly how they respond to military schools and military academys, and even a response to join the military, show that trust in this institution has been greatly raised. Among other things, it has been raised because this institution has shown a huge capacity to reform itself internally, to comply with modern standards, to show that it belongs to a democratic society in which it has its place, in which it knows the relationship between the institution and the citizen and the relationship between the institution and civil society. Once again, I call on everyone, regardless of what they are always inclined to look for reasons for criticism, although from everything that has been said so far, we have seen no serious reason why not all those in this House would vote for this law. Because if you're saying you want to have something that's better, then I'm sure that means it should be professional. If you're saying you want to have something that's effective, then that means it has to be professional again. Amateurism may only work in politics somewhere, but in an institution like the army, which is a really serious institution, I think professionalism is a fundamental assumption of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47925	Eight minutes have been used for 15 seconds by the president of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I shall inform you that they agree with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled and uniform search for a word in writing, and with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: LDP, DSS, SPS-JS, the Prost-Serbian Group, G17 plus, the SRS and the ZES parliamentary group. I hope I've listed all the parliamentary groups. I give my word first, and according to the order of the MPs and according to the application for a word, in principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda. National MP Zoran Ostojic has a word, followed by MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47926	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, today is a great day for generations of young people who wanted this. Back in the tenth year, especially 20 years ago, many young people wanted not to waste time in the military, to learn, to work, to make love and to contribute to their country. There was and there was always a being of those who loved a military call and now they open up a greater possibility of progress. Normally, those who want to serve the army will be able to pass that training and eventually see it as their call in the future, but still those who want to take this invitation seriously will have to go to school primarily for that call, because being a soldier is a call like any other, with one difference from all other calls, in every country there is only one firm in which you can do it, you can't change the company in the same state. Anyway, it's a big day for people who don't want to go to the army, and we know that the past 20 years have been many and ended up abroad, desperate for their families. Remember how many times we've passed amnesty laws here to allow these young people, who didn't want to go to the military and to the wars, to return. There have been many arguments here today against, but most of them are demagogue, incorrect, and I have to say that there was also something I would have qualified as stupid. Historical inaccuracies were through stories that Emperor Dusan Vosco of Serbia had not waged an attack war but only a defensive war, but so when history is unknown, it belongs to some patriotic party, so it is not known about Slivnica, so it is not known for 1913, etc. I don't know how to qualify for comparison today's Serbia with Switzerland or Israel. Switzerland is a neutral country, but it has a national income eight to ten times higher than Serbia. It's the only country in the world that can put its entire population in atomic shelters because it has them. It's a country that has a people's army because every soldier has a uniform and a weapon at home. It is absolutely incomparable and it is a historical neutrality recognised by other countries, but it is primarily based on the money and wealth of Switzerland. To compare Serbia with Israel, I really think it's impeccable, because simply that country is 40 years in the war, and on the other hand, to say that Israel's military neutral is even more stupid. I'm sorry, but I can't qualify for what I've heard from some speakers. The bottom line is, this is going to be a more efficient army, and it's going to cost us the same or a little more, but a little more when it comes to efficiency is essentially cheaper and it's simply in the LDP program than it's set up, we're in favour of a professional army. We have come to the conclusion that this important, perhaps crucial step in reforming the security system, or the military. I'm just gonna go through a little bit of trouble, but there's more work to do. Is there work to be done, Mr. Minister, when did we pass the laws on security services and the military? It's been a year, you could've already appointed a security inspector by now. I think there's an unwarranted reference here to the term "civil control of the military." Nor is Minister Sutanovac a military figure, but it is not the essence of civilian military control to be a civilian. And Milosevic had civilians, on the other hand, Milosevic was not a military person as president of the state, so we had no democratic control of the military, and democratic control of the military is the essence and I think that more transparency, especially in the dedicated industry, is absolutely one of the arguments that will prove that there is democratic control with what I have heard here about forming a special committee. One of the things, Mr. Sutanovac, which concerns NATO and now to move on to what I'm going to talk about for ten minutes, is that you finally take off the secret from the 1999 data about victims, etc., because simply most people can't believe that we don't know exactly how many people died, how many of these people are civilians, and how many of those who wore a blue or gray olive uniform, and it's been 11 years, and it's known in a unit, the number of these people, so it might change something into some perception of those who are essentially speaking against NATO, not from our point of view of Serbia, but probably someone else. You know, there were a lot of things in history that we could learn, but not to waste any time, if I have it all to the end, I'll go back to it. What is the essence of the other day you said, and we welcome this statement that you do not think that NATO membership should be decided in a referendum, but such as most NATO members, except maybe two or three, made that decision by representatives of the people in the Assembly and that is the essence, because those who advocate the referendum are essentially against Serbia's membership in NATO, and they cannot explain why it is contrary to Serbia's interests? Yes, it may be contrary to the interests of another country, but Serbia is not. If everyone is around us in NATO, then it is certain that joining this collective security system is the only solution for Serbia. Therefore, we also believe that the referendum, when the time comes, and will likely come after the next elections and the formation of the government in which the LDP will be, as the 2007 decision on so-called. military neutrality within a resolution on Kosovo, thus making the same decision to join the NATO Pact. NATO membership, not only from an economic point of view, the other day when Mr Djelic was here we held a debate about it, but he was obviously a reserved team of reasons and did not want the public to explain how much in the economic sense the security of a country as a member of NATO contributed to the inflow of foreign investment, namely jobs, and then how much the market for goods from our country, etc. He said something that I think came out of him, that we watch closely the relationship between Russia and NATO, and that's what we're going to rule on, which is what we're going to conclude, maybe it's a clumsy formulation to wait for Russia to give us permission to join NATO. I don't know why Russia would wait for approval to join NATO, after all, it develops every day and every month its relations with NATO, unless there is some kind of threat that would mean if you join NATO we will recognise Kosovo. If there is this threat, I think it is the interest of the Serbian state and the Serbian citizens to see what happens as soon as possible and to join NATO. Let me remind you of the 1878 correspondence by Count Ignatiev, who was a Russian envoy to Carigrad and Prince Gorcakov, who served as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Tsar Russia. At that moment, the Serb army entered Kosovo Mitrovica. It was after a failed uprising in Herzegovina. In that transcript, Ignatiev says Gorcavo -- in Serbia, they cannot hold Kosovo Mitrovica because it is the key to Bosnia. If she can't be held by the great Bulgaria, she better stay in Turkey. To remind those who talk so much about history that Bizmark broke the Sanstefhan Treaty and Santefhan Bulgaria. Serbia restored a modern state at the Berlin Congress, thanks to Bismarck, not Russia. NATO is determined by consensus and it is an important fact that those who advocate the interests of not Serbia but other countries should know. What Ceda Jovanovic says - so is not on the board of directors of NIS. The voice isn't the same. Look at Greece blocking Macedonia's reception despite America's desire for Macedonia and because Macedonians in Afghanistan, sending hundreds of soldiers, are very prominent. Let's get back to the tradition. On the one hand, someone here is calling, and you spoke in your speech about the tradition of the Serbian army and the Kingdom of Serbia. To remind me that this is the first time Serbia has an army, that Serbia is a republic and that it has an army commanded by the President of the Republic. Never before in history has Serbia been a republic, nor has the commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army been a civilian, has always been the president of the Republic, has always been a king. The period of the common state, and it's our army as much as anyone else's. On the one hand, the people's army from the Kingdom of Serbia, on the other hand, the people's army from Tito's Yugoslavia. I know there are nostalgics behind this other army, when they talk about recruits going, where they served the army, etc., and that army remember how they fell apart, that people's army and it was the people's army. She fell apart and was first responsible for the bloody collapse of Yugoslavia, and then she had a bloody breakdown. These nostalgics for the people's armies are probably nostalgics for the people's democracies, and folk democracies existed here in Eastern Europe. Here, one counts the last days. It's called the People's Republic of North Korea. And she has a people's army, but I don't think that in the 21st century we can build on those foundations, either from the 19th century, either from communist times to build our own future, but on values. One of the basic values is anti-fascism, to remind you, and the NATO alliance has made anti-fascist countries of America and the UK. That's what made modern Europe our goal. This antifascism is also shown by NATO membership, as incredible as it may seem to you, but I remind you that NATO countries win over fascism together. In this, Germany, which gave up and defeated this ideology, took part in Germany's victory in the Second World War of Western Allies and the Soviet Union, being brought back into a circle of civilized countries, because it was not until then. And that's the way Serbia should go. These traditions often know, when it comes to European countries, to be discouraging. That is why often people who come from Western Europe say that both the EU and NATO pact are designed to deny tradition. What tradition? For example, the tradition of centuries of wars between France and Germany. These modern societies in Europe that we want to join through the EU and NATO actually deny a historical tradition among them. That's the point. This does not mean that we should deny the 19th century tradition of our army, it is not controversial, but let us give these modern European integrations some new value, which is certainly antifascism. Let me remind you, antifascism is not ideology because antifascist countries were countries of various ideologies. Therefore, we certainly support the abolition of the recruiting obligation. We hope that politics will be able to follow these changes that the military shows, because it would be unfair for the military to step forward in reforms without politicians following. You are the Secretary of Defense today, but tomorrow, I assume, you will be vice president, still, of your own party. As a politician, you have a great obligation to push this process towards where we actually belong, where we all want and, after all, where all our neighbors have come. And those of you who live in the past, I'd like to remind you, yes, once upon a time, a Serb would be happy to go to the soldiers, and then he came from Vukovar. Therefore, time has changed, and it is our turn to change, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47927	Time, sir. I'll stay. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47928	Since you're the second MP from your parliamentary group to say "democratic control of the defence industry", I'm curious to know what you mean specifically, since I don't feel there's any problem here. Also, I'd like to know what you mean when you say the 1999 list of victims is published. What do you mean, since we published all the lists, as far as I know? If there's anything you think is hidden, I'd like you to provide me with information, and I'll personally make sure it gets published.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47929	It's a dialogue between MPs and ministers, and I don't think our Rules of Procedure makes it possible. Here you go, sir. I'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47930	Since Mr. Secretary is asking for an explanation, I'll be brief. I didn't mean democratic control of the dedicated industry, but democratic control means more transparency, and I think we need more transparency when it comes to the dedicated industry, business, etc. It is to produce dedicated goods in state factories, but you will agree, since Milosevic's time, many private companies have entered the business, when it comes to trade and traders. Not to remind you of what happened to Eagle a few years ago, to the institution, etc. In that sense, I think more transparency is a sign of greater democratic control. I'm not talking about civilian control because, simply, they're all civilians, and the commander-in-chief and you. And as for the data, now we've marked a sad anniversary, or last year, still in the media, there's not how many people died, there's still a military secret every dead soldier or cop, and there's no telling how many died? For example, under what circumstances did Milica Rakic die, whose unfortunate death is indeed being manipulated? Because there was NATO activity at that moment, etc. That's what I'm asking. I know there are data on every dead Serbian citizen during NATO bombing. But if it's a state secret and it can't be published, I guess it's time for an anniversary to be published. Because it's impossible that the state doesn't know how many people died. Approximately, it bids numbers to bomb Belgrade in 1941 – from 2,000 to 8,000. This is where someone was talking - three thousand, a thousand, and there's a number in the unit. That's exactly what we need to announce, how many soldiers there are, how many civilians and police officers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47931	We understand. The word has a minister, and that will end this dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47932	I think you're mistaken. What is currently being prosecuted and what is in the courts, we do not have the opportunity to publish. Anything else is available to the public. I say again – if you have any knowledge that something is hiding and does not allow it to go public, give me that knowledge, personally to me and I will try to break it. There is no longer a military secret as a term in the system, and the degree of confidentiality of that data does not exist either. I guarantee we'll get it out of here if there's any doubt. It's just that this suspicion that you've now raised, all of what we're doing, and reform and change and standardisation, and so on, it brings us back to a time where there was no democratic and civilian control and in which the military has something to hide, in which there are some dark people who transfer something, some documents, etc. It's really important to me. I'm doing this job with complete conviction that the people I work with are professionals and with complete conviction that none of them have any reason to hide something that is bad from the past, because if we hide anything, it'll someday pop up and it'll be a bigger disaster than it is. That's one thing. Secondly, in terms of arms trafficking, it's a completely different topic from the defence industry. So, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is issuing permits for the import and import of arms, military equipment and all other supplies concerning the defence, police, etc., and you, as Parliament, can ask for a report from them, to deliver to us who is trading, how much, as much as anyone has imported, which are contracts, etc. So that's all right. What you can't get, simply because it is, and that's if the Contracting Party doesn't allow it to be put into the public that it's a contractual party and buys sensitive equipment from you, then you can't do it because if you do, the contract will fail and then we're in a position to lose a huge inflow of funds because of someone's curiosity. Otherwise, there is no democracy in the world that allows this to spread. What's an objective problem, if I were to say it at a closed board session, I'm afraid it would come out in public, and then we get into trouble because a lot of workers depend on it, and someone sells it as information just out of joke or order doing it. I hope we understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47933	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47934	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, honored guests, fellow MPs, today Mr. Minister has set up a kind of debate that I did not want to enter, but today has shown that it has not actually gone far from what they have always been, which is that you are not attracted to the idea of overcoming divisions in Serbia, which I will explain a little later. You have proved to me today that you are a dangerous man in a very sensitive place. Today, you unconsciously, subconsciously, or Freudian have determined to involve politics where it does not belong, which is Serbia's army. I'll prove it to you now. I won't quote you, I'll paraphrase you. Namely, you are in the replica of the authorised representative of the DSS, Mr Samardzic, accusing him, and the DSS, that it is not for the professionalisation of the military, which absolutely does not correspond to the truth, said that when the time of elections comes you will go out to young people in Serbia and tell them – we are for you all not to join the army. That, of course, doesn't match the truth. That's another story. But what did you say unwittingly? You said you did this to have something to go ahead of the elections in front of young people. That's the only thing that could have figured out what you ordered. It's a pure politicization of this issue that we've been talking about all day today. What you've been thinking all along, you've accidentally spoken, and I'm sure it wasn't your intention. Today you were saying what someone said in the pro-government daily "Politics". I can remind you of what else was written in "Politics." Let's say someone said it was also posted on the front page -- that Serbia's hunting society is stronger than Serbia's army. That someone is an actor, you will say here that he is incompetent, etc., I am talking about our great actor Peter Bozovic. But, Mr. Sutanovac, go through a little bit and informally, and I know that you used to know that, in the streets of Belgrade and Serbia, in the cafes, it doesn't matter, and you'll hear the same remark everywhere -- that the army is nowhere near what it used to be. Perhaps you, for certain reasons, no one expects you to say such a thing, but that is what is heard absolutely everywhere in Serbia. In that same "Politics" approximately two years ago, your closest associate, the Chief of Staff of the then, Mr. Zdravko Ponos, said that the defence policy does not exist. He said there was no defence strategy, no defence policy. On the question of journalists - why, he said - because of incompetence, irresponsibility, inability and arrogance, thinking of you personally. He's at the MIP today, at the Foreign Ministry. You're where you're still going, this state policy, military policy, the foreign ministry, etc., but you're solving your differences that way, I'm gonna be here, he's gonna be there, we're far enough away from jeopardizing each other, and we're gonna get back to work. Great. Another symptomatic thing today, not counting on Mrs. Kolundji who just spoke, you have not answered anything today to the only authorised representative of any political group or party. This is Mr. Vlajko Senic, it seems to me that he spoke more inspiredly about the NATO Pact and Serbia's participation in the NATO Pact than you could ever say. I think you were impressed by his speech and you had nothing to add or take away. You're four or five years ago, I remember reading in the daily press, saying your ambition is to be the Secretary General of the NATO Pact. I don't know if Mr. Andres Fogh Rasmussen feels like he's having a shriveled chair because Dragan Sutanovac is approaching, but think about Mr. Vlajko Senic, who tells you so nicely about the NATO Pact, that you would never know. You've got a hell of a competition. I'm not talking about the army right now in the least possible sense that the military won't ever do anything or anything. It is normal that they will always behave professionally, that they will carry out what they are told, which are orders, which are decisions, etc. The question is, what do you do when you have certain decisions, laws, constitutions, etc.? You have that decision on the neutrality of this country, so you have it. You refer to the media in a unique way beyond that decision, as some political groups do. We heard representatives of the G17. We know about the views of the Serbian Renewal Movement, which are the top NATO lobbyists in Serbia. How come you in the press today say neutrality is more expensive than NATO? Not going in now is that true and in the debate about it. Then the other day, compare yourself no less than with the Serbian-language reformer and the letter to Vuk Karadzic, which is simply amazing. I believe that you think of yourself as the most beautiful and that even in the mirror you see yourself more beautiful than you are in reality, and you are a beautiful man, but do you really think that you are the one who is the reformer of the highest and highest possible level and that today what you are doing is exactly what Vuk Karadzic did? You said he never asked the people of Serbia for spelling reform. So how is it possible? So you won't ask anyone, let alone the people of Serbia. To be more interesting, a spokesman for your party, the Democratic Party, reacts and says -- the position of Dragan Sutanovac is not the democratic party's position. What's this about? You couldn't make a deal with your own Chief of Staff, he accused you of incompetence, arrogance, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47935	I apologize, Mr. Tomic, this is about a unique joint review of the proposals for acts referred to in points 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda. I've been waiting very patiently for seven and a half minutes for you to finish talking to individual MPs, ministers and members. I haven't heard a single sentence about the agenda. Please concentrate and return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47936	Mr. Novakovic, please take out a full stenogram of today's debate and let's see how much my predecessor, then the second, then the third, and then the fourth talked about what you're talking about. No, but now that I'm asking very awkward questions, which he won't be able to find an answer to, or Minister Sutanovac, you're now responding. Very wise of you, but very transparent. Any viewer will be able to judge that. The opposite, because the purpose of this whole thing is that after this decision, Mr. Novakovic and I speak to you, this is a kind of youth-preparation for marriage, as it is said in our people. This is the first of the preparations for Serbia's entry into NATO pact. To make an army such as to be under one kind of control, that the minister has really broad powers, he did so in law, in Article 9, where his approval is determined by the number and structure of persons with whom an engagement contract can be concluded, etc. So far, it has been proposed by the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army, which is now gone, by the minister himself. No one says it's not legitimate, but it says it's about a ghost, a mile where such a law and such decisions are made. Here the minister will have very free hands, and here he will be able to implement all sorts of things and involve politics. No one will be able to convince me anymore that Serbia's military policies will be no more secure than they have ever been. You didn't provide us with any analysis of the threat to the country. The professional public has not held a public hearing. What is the public debate about such an important one, how did you say a revolutionary decision, and what is it? Was there a public debate? The European Commission recently transferred to us why our laws do not have public debates, why the professional public does not discuss various laws and decisions. This is one in a row of these, but wait, I didn't expect it from you. I assumed that you would make such a big decision, as you say I am brave, so my God, it will go like this, as you would courageously join Serbia's NATO pact, without a referendum, without the will of the citizens. You've been calling for statistics all day. Call on the most basic statistical model, at the will of the citizens. Ask them a question - do they want to join the NATO Pact? Does Serbia want in the NATO Pact? We have heard here, today who is watching this transmission has the impression that more MPs want to enter the NATO Pact than the citizens of Serbia, which, of course, does not match the truth. Let's go to that referendum already. You said today, I have to comment, and you have accused the Democratic Party of Serbia and Vojislav Kostunica of laughing, but it was really funny, that we did not call a referendum to join the United Nations and the Council of Europe. I think you're the only minister in the world who doesn't know there's no referendum here. Give me only one country where a referendum was held, watch out for entry into the United Nations. That's amazing. And there was a referendum to join NATO, and there was a pact in Hungary, it was in Slovenia. People have pleaded that they have spoken, the state has acted accordingly, and I call on you once again, so do you in the state of Serbia. I want to ask you something in front of the Serbian public, you are obliged to answer for all this, because you are not in agreement with your own and yesterday's chief of staff of the Serbian Army, or with your party, as the spokesman declares that your views are not the views of the Democratic Party, are you NATO lobbyist or not? Answer me now in front of the public, and you don't have to, I'll get out of the O.R., I don't have to hear it, the citizens of Serbia are obliged to hear it, and you are obliged to answer it. So let's check out the statistical reality, will Serbia go to NATO Pact? Does Boris Tadic speak one thing, and the defence minister Sutanovac says the other. We heard that, too. The NATO Pact is the enigma of this country only because it is in power of complete papacy. You have a lot to say to the citizens of Serbia. That's what Serbia expects of you. Not me personally, I'm not important, not even these MPs matter. Will Serbia go to NATO? Are you NATO lobbyist and do you want Serbia to enter the NATO Pact or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47937	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47938	First of all, Mr. Tomic, you and I aren't going to the same bar. In fact, I rarely get to go, but I see you go quite often and collect information about your relationship with our army there. I see you've been fascinated by an interview by an actor who said our army isn't at the level it's supposed to be at. That's objectively the level of information and knowledge you're dealing with. Around here with that level, you're trying to convince the citizens of Serbia that today the army is not what it was. I have to tell you all, I'm proud that the army isn't what it was. After 92 years, we changed the army of Serbia, now wearing a mark on the left sleeve. Do you want me to remind you only in time when you ruled Serbia over the affairs that were in the Serbian Army? You want me to tell you about Leskovec? About the crow? About Topcider, Mr. Tomic? (Zeljko Tomic, from the post: You mean when was Tadic a minister? No, you were and your Mr. Kostunica was the prime minister of that government. Would you like me to remind you that you fired people without any analysis? In three years, 40,000 people were out of work. Would you like me to remind you that you've brought the whole system into trouble by not paying your pension the way it was supposed to? I can talk slower, if you're taking notes, it's not a problem? So, how and why today we have a debt to military pensioners from the time you led Serbia. I'm sorry you're using lies. I never said it was in my interest to be the secretary general of anything. It's just, the cafes you're going to, they're obviously spinning information that's not true. Four or five years ago, I never dreamed I'd be a secretary of defense. Believe me, not in the wildest dreams. Since the question is raised – is that the will of the citizens? I will try to get you statements from Mr. Vojislav Kostunica, who was a candidate and on my ballot I was, as a DOS candidate, in which we talked about professionalising the military, abolishing military service, making our army modern, systematized, organized, formatted by the best standards. You're against professionalization today, and you don't know how to say it, so you came into conflict with your boss, Mr. Samardzic, who today said he's against it, and you're up for it, so now you need to dissuade your electoral body, so tomorrow you can say that you've been to where you are for, and where you're not, in those pubs where you sit, to say that you're against. Unfortunately not, but I'll tell you, since the question is, who are we reforming for? I want to tell you -- since 2003, a decision has been taken to object to the conscience as part of the reform. That seemed more or less important to someone. Since the European Commission is asking whether it exists and that 90,000 young people have chosen to regulate the military deadline in this way, it is obvious that in favour of some Serbian citizens it is done. We've passed laws in the VOA and VBA areas. Why did we bring that? Because you didn't bring it. When your minister ran the system, those laws were gone. We passed the Army Act, the Defense Act, six laws, two strategies, the National Security Strategy. We did it all in an extremely short time. We've reformed military school. Believe me, it's not just about the system, it's about the states. For those of you who wonder if that's our interest? Let me tell you right now, in the last few years, we've been training officers from a large number of foreign countries. Last year we were from China, last year from Russia. I'm sorry, if there's really a need to discuss something outside the O.R., let him argue. I can't talk, they're distracting me. I'm trying really hard to listen very carefully. Today we have officers from Austria, Turkey, America who are in school with us, as in Algeria 20. It's our interest, it's no one's interest in us doing it. Believe me, as much as it seems to you or you may not understand, it doesn't matter. That's our interest. The formation of a military-medical college as part of military education reform is also one of the aspirations of our doctors with VMA, but also of the defence system to have that kind of education. We simply have a building with 180,000 square meters, with all the institutes, the professors, and it makes sense that we have that college. In the first year, we have strangers who study with us. In the first year, right now. By the end of the year, we'll be forming a defense university. It's also one thing that's absolutely new. We accredited our studies with VMA, the Military Academy. We'll also have military-technical studies, we'll have PhDs within the system, and we'll improve the entire system. For who? For Serbia, for us. Don't have a dilemma at all. For the first time in 2007, we enroll girls at the Military Academy. And someone's gonna say it's because someone from NATO ordered it. No, people, it's something that's modern-day liquid, modern. We want to have women officers. Also, women are now allowed to be professional soldiers. Is that in our interest or in the interest of some strangers? No, it's in our interest. It's the best interest we're doing. It's true that it took a little bit more time to choose a candidate for the general inspector of the service. There may be the biggest guilt on me. It's just that it's an extremely responsible place and I don't want to make a mistake, although I'm someone who thinks decisions have to be made as quickly as possible, that the greatest risk is actually not to risk it, but somehow I've had some kind of delay and that's why this thing got a little bit out of hand. I'm convinced that the face, it's now an official expression, that the man we've chosen is adequate and that in an appropriate way this job will work. In the field of international co-operation, I'd like to hear what you're saying, speak only from the bile and because you have no arguments, not because you know it. If you don't know, I'll tell you. With over 50 countries in the world, the Ministry of Defence has co-operation. At 40, we signed contracts for international co-operation. I signed about 20 contracts myself. For the first time in our history, we recently had a minister of defense from Brazil. These are the BRIK countries you often call upon and that are extremely important in the world. For the first time in Serbia's history, an anthem of Brazil was officially played at a state ceremony. It may not mean much to you, but it means a lot to me. We had a visit from the Secretary of Defense from China, and you won't believe it, for the first time. Chief of General Staff of China, we don't have the information when he was before that. The Chief of Staff of the Russian Federation was a few months ago. I had a meeting with him. I hear there's been some debate now for the weekend about whether it's true or not. I had a meeting with him, a very good meeting and quality. The last time his colleague was eight years ago. We received the American Chief of Staff after 57 years. But obviously that's not enough. I'll tell you that we signed agreements with all the countries in the environment, except Albania. Today Serbia has an agreement in the area of defence, literally from Ankara to Vienna with all countries. We want to sign with Albania as well. For what? Because the security space is indivisible. Because no matter how much you want to put your head in the sand to pass the storm, believe me, it can't save your head in the sand unless you're working with countries in the environment. No matter how homophobic we are on one side and xenophobic on the other side, it doesn't help you in a safe sense. I'm really sorry that you don't have a chance or you haven't talked to him, that you're talking to Mr. Jocic, my esteemed colleague and former interior minister, who will tell you that without cooperation, you can't fight challenges, risks and threats in the area of defense and these same asymmetric threats in the area of security. It's just that you can't isolate yourself in relation to your environment and pretend to be one of your own stories, where you're actually going to be threatened, because you're not in the security system that's necessary. I respect every decision Parliament has made, but I cannot be ordered by parliament to do what I am going to think. I can't be told by parliament that I have to change my mind. I don't know what the problem is, if I said Vuk Karadzic didn't execute, what's the problem? Compare myself to Vuk Karadzic? No, you compare me. Was it a referendum for adoption? It's not. Has Serbia adopted a new spelling for 30 years? Was that man named a publisher, a foreign mercenary, a German spy, an Austrian mercenary? Is that from our people's history? That's a fact. Now what do you resent me for putting it out in public, in order to tell people that all the great works in humanity did not make nations whole, but leaders, people who had enough courage at some point, had enough visions, had enough ideas and energy to lead their people in the direction they were convinced was good? Would we have been bombarded if we went to a referendum? Could anyone have asked – excuse me, are you in favour of war with NATO? As far as professionalizing is concerned, I don't have a problem. So I'm saying we need a referendum for that, too. Believe me, if you decide here in the Assembly that you need a referendum, I don't mind, it's just important to me that you be clear. So today your colleague said you're against professionalization. I've repeated that a few times. Now apparently, after that phone conversation you've finished, you're now professionalizing. Do you support it or do you not support it? Don't be angry, but simply, it's very important for us in the system to know what your opinion really is. I'll tell you something else. You say it's not the army it used to be. The moment you left the army, we had a lieutenant, a lieutenant and a captain more than a colonel or something. That was the result of your work. Staff pyramid - disaster. Pensioners are owed a disaster, 2.7 billion long system. The destroyed system totally, even the part where you thought you did something, it's military health, and it's a disaster. Now I'm hearing criticism about NATO. What NATO? Well, it's not NATO. The theme is whether Serbia will get a modern, modern, professional army or not. Are we going to listen to actors or people who are trained to talk about it? If it's an actor's quote, even on the front page of an important newspaper, which the editor told me was not clear to him how it was possible to find it. Of course I called to ask, let me say – excuse me (President: Please calm down, tensions are completely unnecessary. I'm interested in what qualified an actor to get a front page with so many titles and to talk about the Serbian Army? I see you're fascinated. Finally, you have the support of someone. I don't know if that man has our citizenship. I don't know if this man is a member of our people here or from some other country, and I'm asking a question that he hasn't asked, so not thinking about his country of origin, in which the system is objectively much smaller than ours. Also, I want you to know, I'm taking the opportunity to say that after almost 70 years, we're introducing a religious service. (President: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, excuse me, Ministers, please listen when someone is speaking and reminding me that you have no obligation to sit in the O.R. if you have obstacles and smarter conversations. Thank you. Please be quiet. ) Also, let me tell you, after 70 years, we are introducing a religious service in the Serbian Army. Also, if someone at the bar tells you -- it's not the army it was, you know, it's true. For seventy years, there were no religious officers in our army, so we bring in, we will have priests in the army and people who will be able as spiritual leaders to talk to the soldiers and enable them to avoid the situation we were in. Of course, all recognized churches and other professions. So everything you say, I totally agree. It's not what it was and, believe me, this law will never again be like it was because it changes absolute access to security and access to defense.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47939	Let me just say that, in view of the noise, we don't listen, so we've been doing the same thing over and over again. Let's not do that, in order to make Parliament work more efficiently. No, of course not, Mr. Tomic, nothing to do with your exposure. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47940	I'll have less than two minutes. It's just amazing that the minister can speak for 14 minutes, and the MP can speak for two minutes. It's the Rules of Procedure you brought in, gentlemen from the ruling coalition. Just for a little while. You claim that Mr Samardzic said that we are against reforming the army, absolutely false. You can have a stenogram. Even if he said, it's kind of a disagreement, but he didn't. But we have openly read in the media that you have said one thing, and your party's spokesman said -- the position of Dragan Sutanovac is not the position of DS, the headquarters of today's ruling coalition. You say about Vuk Karadzic, it's nice to compare yourself to such a major reformer, except he reformed it, you said it, you said – Vuk Karadzic reformed without asking the people, so why don't we, as you said, do all the great things, is the great work of Serbia's entry into NATO pact. On the contrary, ask the citizens of Serbia. You only mention a bar, there's a passerby on the street who says the same thing. The way you spoke about Peter Bozovic, what an actor thinks about it, and it never bothered you what a folk singer Miroslav Ilic thinks about ministers in the Serbian government thinks. You never found that appropriate to say – hey, taste, it's not right for you to talk about ministers and politics, and also about me, a phenomenal son-in-law, to do well. One more thing you said in the end, you called the policy editor. Give me an example of where the ministers call it "Politics" editors to ask what's on the front page. You probably asked, why did they get published? And I have information from "Politics" that you have raised an alert in "Politica" because of a statement and interview by Petra Bozovic, who appeared on the front page.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47941	The word is from Ambassador Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47942	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, respected representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking today about two proposals that are of paramount importance. It is therefore a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations and a proposal for a decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military term. First of all, when it comes to the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligation, I would like to say that this proposal creates a legal basis for continuing the implementation of the reform, the defence system, following the decision we are also talking about today. These changes and additions should actually allow for a more effective application of the National Assembly’s decision to suspend the military service obligation. That's the point. The very reason for the decision we are talking about today is actually the operationalisation of positions from the adopted defence strategy, defence review strategy and the Serbian Army doctrine. First of all, I would like to make it perfectly clear and fully accurate that what the authorised representative of the parliamentary club said would support the proposed amendments and additions to the law, as well as the proposed decision, because above all we support the goal that is to achieve, which is that Serbia will receive a modern defence system that includes both a professional and a modern and modern army. Of course, considering the implementation of this goal, it is necessary to adapt the legal frameworks to one, I would say to a successful, reforming the defence system in the Republic of Serbia. What is also important is that, when it comes to the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law, as stated among other things in the light of this legislative proposal, all interested parties were able to make their suggestions, to make their proposals, to give their views and opinions on the proposed amendments. The proposed decision we are talking about today aims, among other things, to streamline defence costs. It is true, too, when the benefits of the entire system of professional soldiers are far greater. It is now very important that a precise plan has been made on the necessary number of soldiers in the Republic of Serbia and of course the state must and should provide the necessary minimum funds for the professional army. On the other hand, it is necessary to provide both funds and conditions for those who wish to serve voluntarily a military deadline and, of course, those who wish, will be able to establish a working relationship as professional soldiers later on, and that was the case. It would be good if, through voluntary military service, there was an opportunity to offer interested people something that could be defined as a practical benefit for the next period of time. So, what's the point of this decision? Since 1 January 2011, voluntary military service will be introduced, as of January 1st, those who wish will go to the army, and the rest will only have a symbolic obligation and will introduce it into military records when they turn 18 and thus enter into the reserve. By the way, I want to say that it is quite clear that in the past time period the status of members of the RS military has been improved and that citizens today have more confidence in the military and in favour of this finding is going to say that the recruit's response when it comes to military service, which is very important. It's very important to do, and I also want to say, real needs when it comes to military facilities. What is necessary to complete, and the rest in a certain way may be compensated with the state and from these funds, i.e. to use those resources to realise the objective of modernising the further improvement and improvement of the position of the RS Army. I agree there's still a lot of work to do, but it's quite clear that with these two proposals today and the adoption of these two proposals, we're taking a huge step forward. So, with respect for tradition and that I want to end up with, we're going towards something that's more efficient, more modern, more modern, and once again I want to say that the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47943	Mr. Dragan Todorovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47944	I am advocating Article 27, paragraph 2, where it is said that the chairman is obliged to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You remember that about an hour ago, there were undetermined problems and claims that were completely incorrect by the chairman. The MPs don't need it, because they heard it, but because of the public to repeat it correctly, I got a stenogram and it says this: the minister said it refers to Arrows – I'll tell you how much, when we're not on the air, but to know that we have over four thousand Arrows today. When I began to speak, the chairman interrupted me and said – please, MP, do not abuse the right to receive replicas. You have the right to a replica and you claim that the minister has said something that has not been said, so I ask you to use the replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia so they can see in the simplest way that there are double arches when it comes to holding a session and when it comes to certain MPs, especially the MPs of the SRS. I appeal to you that you and the President of the Assembly, and I have already done it several times already, agree and establish certain standards or something that would apply to all, at least some minimum, because this has really crossed every possible line, not to say that one MP was taken from the line, was given to him only after another speaker when he finished his discussion. You simply have to make sure that we are chosen by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that this is not the attitude towards us, but towards the citizens who chose us and in this way shows disrespect and division of the citizens of Serbia, which I do not think is your goal and that you should take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47945	No breach of Article 27. For the sake of truth, you brought out a part of a stenogram that absolutely has no doubt at all. It's obvious that here, and I was present, there was a misunderstanding, because the key words about which there was a misunderstanding were - a military secret, so there was... If you're not satisfied with my explanation, please tell me, so the Assembly in voting day will plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47946	I don't want to put you in that situation. If the minister says he can't speak publicly, then it's a military secret...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47947	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic, we understand. I'm just asking you to nod my head if you're satisfied with my explanation or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47948	I don't want to put you in an awkward situation, I want you to be the one who broke it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47949	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can see that Mr. Minister has lost his will for a further replica, but I will try several sentences to present all the SNS objections to the bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the exchange of funds and documents. It is illusory and dissuasive for this parliament that we today, on 2 December 2010, are discussing the agreement between Serbia and Montenegro on the approval of the same Agreement when the exchange of funds and good work of documentation has already been made, and this is the subject of this law. Mr Sutanovac signed the Agreement on 14 April this year on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. All M-62 planes, or G-4, landed at Batajna Airport, truth be told, some of them barely flew in, because some of the standing traps didn't want to retreat, so there were some problems during the flight. What's our role in all this now? To the National Assembly and to us, to the MPs, we have left to raise our hands and by following the law confirm something that has already been done. I think this is an additional collapse of the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I call on the government and president of the National Assembly to put forward future draft laws in the assembly procedure on time or never give them away. This agreement has two sides. On the one hand, what Serbia is getting through this agreement, and on the other hand, what Serbia gives in return. Serbia has already received six M-62 and G-4 aircraft produced between 1985 and 1991, which was intended by school and combat training of Serbia's military pilots, with certain problems of the technical type of inability to pull in a stand-up trap, however, landed at the Batajna Airport. I don't even want to think about what would happen if the stand-up trap couldn't go down and what the consequences would have been for the very brave pilots of the Serbian Army, Lieutenants Sasa Ristic and Salih Hadzic, who were flying to the last two planes that arrived at the airport at the end of October of this year. The planes arrived complete, but not remounted, and were sent to the Air Force Institute "Moma Stanojlović" after landing and viewing. I'd like to know if there's an estimate of the funds that need to be invested in order for those planes to be safe to use and when they'll be ready to use at all. Serbia also received spare parts for MI8 helicopters, at least according to the specification you listed 346,458 euros. What is symptomatic is that in addition to the specifications of those spare parts of which I do not want to doubt, there is no signature and seal of some of the respectable houses, such as the Remont Institute "Moma Stanojlović" or, say, the Department of Aeronautics of the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade. As the signature and expert overture exists, it can't be seen whether and who made the assessment that these spare parts of the hand, arms, locks and specifications really cost 350,000 euros. All we have left to do is take your word for it. I can't really trust you that these parts are usable, that they may not be spent and written off, or that maybe their only value and only purpose is to be museum exhibits. I'm sure Mr. Minister, although he's not here, will understand me, because he, like me, is a technical face and at least he was when we met just over 15 years ago at the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade. By investigating a little, and so can Mr. Minister or you and one of his first associates, to check on Rashn Kargo Helicopters' website that the price of used helicopters MI 8T, say, 281.929 US dollars, MI 8TR $300,000, and MI 8 TB that belongs more to helicopter MI 17 costs about $406.000. Comparing these prices of second-hand but safe and usable MI8 helicopters and the price for which we have received helicopter spare parts of suspicious quality, I don't think the agreement in this segment is favourable to Serbia. The 350,000-euro Army of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence, I am sure, could have used in a much smarter way. On the other hand, what did Serbia give in return? One moving night start remounted and complete, for which with the greatest will I could not even get close to value, because the agreement does not contain enough technical details and characteristics to define this moving night start. Also, most interesting in this agreement, Serbia has denied 171,577 shares in the "New First Fighter" company in Herceg Novi. This Agreement does not show or indicate the nominal value of these actions. The company "New First Fighter", and I'll tell you, it makes 801.275 shares, the largest number of shares owned by a company from the Virgin Islands Pit Investment with 39.79% shares, slightly less by another company, also, with the Virgin Islands Mail Investment, which owns 8.62% shares, Herceg municipality Novi 2.9%, and the Elektroprivred of Montenegro 1.79% shares. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia is the second largest shareholder with 171,577 shares, which accounts for 21.6% of the total number of actions enrolled. Also, the Ministry of Defence, and thus the state of Serbia, has shown great concern for the property that is not small, and what is proven to prove to you by the fact that in the management of the administration, i.e. the "New First Fighter" UO, there was no representative of the Ministry of Defence, regardless of the ownership structure and participation of the Republic of Serbia in the ownership structure of the "New First Fighter". Management of the management of the "New First Fighter" consists of Dragan Liješević, Vadim Poborabov, Viktor Kijalov and Executive Director Ilija Vukelić. I would like that if we could confirm that one of these persons has been delegated by the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Defence. The value of the "New First Fighter" action that you did not specify in the agreement on the Podgorica Stock Exchange ranged from 8.5 euros to a maximum of just over 23 euros per share, while the nominal value of one action is ten euros, with all the problems that the company has with labour inspection, court disputes and fired workers. Also, an estimate of the value of the company's "New First Fighter" by the company's authorised assessment of Dream from Podgorica found the value of the company's property to be 10.5m euros. What can be inferred from this whole story? By agreement we have received unremounted and for the use of non-secure aircraft, spare parts for unconfirmed helicopters and without any certifications, and in return we give up ownership participation in the "New First Fighter" worth millions of euros. Why aren't these stocks sold on the stock market? Why weren't they sold at the time when you could get a lot more money? Did the Department of Defense choose dividends during this period of "New First Fighter" action? Have you consulted your profession before signing the agreement? Have the spare parts planes been checked before the deal was signed? I don't expect any damage to Montenegro by this agreement, but what I want is for you to convince us that the value of the exchange of goods is at least the same. The agreement is signed, the law will be passed by the parliamentary majority's will, the material goods have been exchanged and the job is finished. We can't do anything here anymore, except to realize that in my humble opinion this agreement and following the law is harmful to the state of Serbia. For this reason, MPs of the Progressive Parliamentary Club, Serbia's SNS, will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47951	Ten minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Lapčević Milan.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47952	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's session, I can't share that impression with everyone, it had a very strange flow. I do not recall in this House that there was one bill and one debate that the minister responded to every comment and every debate of any MP and that he spent much more time than the MPs or representatives of the parliamentary groups themselves did. On the other hand, it is also very strange that a large number of ruling parties are present in the hall today, and that following each presentation, the minister follows the obligation of a frenetic applause, which also leads me to the conclusion that all of this has a one-party purpose of preparing DS and Mr Sutanovac himself for the elections in his party. I am sorry that this turned out to be so today and that the chairmans allowed the Assembly to turn into a political stage, where in fact, any possibility of entering a duel like on a TV show will be used and we will argue about what is not on the agenda. More today, the minister spoke about the defence ministry's work report and what he and his team did, rather than the objections and questions raised by MPs or dilemmas brought about by the debate itself. In doing so, of course, I can't help but feel that every time a pay phone was used by ministers, an opportunity to respond in an offensive way to the MPs, to be taught, if you don't know how to tell you, I will teach you to listen, or I don't know what terms have already been used, and yet the chairman did not warn the minister that they respect the dignity of the National Assembly. All in all, one very strange debate, but I'm going to stick to the two key things that were mentioned in this debate. The first is the professionalization of the military and the abolition of military obligations, as a subject that is dominant. All that is related to it, the first and the main thing, and what has often been the minister in a very incorrect way, is that the DSS is opposed to professionalising the military and that it is actually the force that continues to cultivate some negative trends, some prevailing ways of defending the country, etc., which absolutely does not correspond to the truth. The DSS is not against the professionalization of the military, but it is against abolishing the obligation to serve the military term in the way it is today. That's what we've been putting out a series of arguments for. So, when you're going into military professionalization, then I guess you have some elaborate on how much it's going to cost you, how much power you need, and whether what you're doing will be enough to withstand all the security risks your country is exposed to. We mentioned the problems this country has, the south of Serbia and the unresolved status of Kosovo, and the challenges with Sandzak, with nine provinces in Vojvodina, with a problem in eastern Serbia, which certainly cannot be ignored and which at the moment do not justify that the Serbian Army is reducing to 11,000 professional members, who again are not guaranteed to be much more effective and much more successful than Serbia had an army ten years ago, a few years ago or today. On the other hand, the minister indicated that we would listen to actors or experts or professionals in the military, which he probably thought we should listen to experts and professionals in the military, and he does the opposite. So, two years or a year or a half ago, the Chief of Staff, Mr. Posh, publicly opposed the Ministry of Defence and Minister Sutanovac's policy and said that the country's defence policy does not exist and that this way it does not have any purpose to carry out that duty anymore, so of course it has been replaced. He also stated that the General Staff of the Army has 192 colonels' posts, and the Ministry of Defence 476. Is it more necessary to have that expertise at the General Staff or the Ministry of Defense? On the other hand, the new Chief of Staff, Lieutenant Colonel Miloja Miletic, said that abolishing the military deadline is not the best possible solution, especially when we take the situation in the environment, but that it is the current decision of political leadership. Militaryly speaking, serving a military term wouldn't stop, I'm a professional soldier, and hardly any of us would answer differently, but it's a matter of assessment and political decision. So, on the one hand, we want to affirm professionalism and expertise when it suits us, and when it doesn't respond, when that expertise says in the image of the Chief of Staff, both of them, that the army doesn't need to be reduced, that we don't need to break the military obligation, then we say that this is not necessary and that leaders should make bold decisions and lead the people forward. I'm afraid this is certainly not the lead of the people ahead, but one easy preparation for Serbia to sneak into NATO's alliance at a small door, which is clearly said by the minister himself and his efforts to bring Serbia closer to the alliance that bombed our country 11 years ago, destroyed dozens and hundreds of civilian goals, carried away thousands of lives of innocent people. It's just that it seems to me that the crazy people and the crazy nations can enter into such an alliance that in such a criminal way bombed our country and practically brought it into this situation that we're in today. This is clearly seen in the resolution that this parliament has brought, in which we have mentioned and condemned all the crimes committed against the Serb people, but of course we did not have the courage to say that the NATO pact bombing was a crime, we have already mentioned that we regretted the victims that fell at the time. There is no greater humiliation for a nation when he cannot say himself that his country is being bombed and destroyed by exactly that NATO pact. So, we believe that in the situation where everything is in place today, and all the real analyses suggest that the security risks and tensions in the world are growing, that the security risks in the environment are also not in favor of us and of some general peace, and that in this situation it is absolutely not appropriate to reduce the number of soldiers, to abolish a binding military obligation and that total demagogue is when it is said – go to the pre-election campaign tomorrow and say that you are introducing a military obligation. You know what, such a demagogy of abolishing the obligation to do something is absolutely inappropriate to use in this debate. We can also say that we're going to cancel the electricity payment, for example, so when we see in six months that it's an unsustainable system, no one can go out in a political campaign and say, now we're going to introduce mandatory electricity payments. These things are incomparable and thus cannot be considered about Serbia's defence system as well. Of course, for all these reasons, the DSS can't support these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47953	Nine minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. The word is Miss Jovanovic Natasa.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47954	Mr. Novakovicu, Mr. Minister Dragan Sutanovac is not currently in the O.R. I have to, and so does the ministry gentlemen, for the sake of the public to say that he didn't show up on the Security and Defence Committee, because he probably apologized to some colleagues and promoted his views which, as we heard, differ or disown them from some of the DS to ease his open goal, which is Serbia's entry into the NATO Pact. This is not correct, because the minister has to do business all the time as invited to this topic, and several points of the agenda are connected, to be here, and to listen to what the MPs say, because we are now in a situation that we can't go to direct questions or what he's been saying to fellow Serbian radicals, and which is simply not true, to point out in direct confrontation and debate, because he simply doesn't have one. As the minister fled the moon, I will start with famous Serbian history and something he did not mention in his opening statement when he spoke about the Serbian army and its history. I have to go back many years earlier and say that the Serbian national consciousness has always been clearly defined and expressed in the Serbian people and that when few people had. That is what many world travellers, soldiers and those who have been passing through Serbia say, those who witnessed the participation of Serbs in the Liberation Wars. On this occasion, I will say what is today in the soul of all Serbian patriots, and the last country war in Republika Srpska that is unfortunately occupied, and in Republika Srpska, both children of Partisans and Chetniks were called Chetniks. The idea of a great Serbia present with Serbian committees, or Chetnik, is something that has deeply entered into the soul and heart of Serbian patriots and patriots. Any statements and any executive power, and this one headed by Tadic and Sutanovac certainly does not follow the famous Serbian tradition of the Serb army that fought to free every inch of the Serbian country, we must, and we Serbian radicals know it best, because that is what our president in The Hague Kazamat does, to say that the majority is against joining NATO. He is today the world's greatest fighter on the quasi-sudic scene, but certainly the international public sees how much this insistent on showing, in light of events over the past 20 years, that he was right when he was in the late 1980s, and then his SRS warned about the intentions of Western forces gathered around the Western military alliance of the aggressor NATO pact. Not to be, ladies and gentlemen of the DS, G 17, from other parties participating in power, that something that Serbian radicals say only as a political platform of our operation, which is the only way to recover Serbia and restore that national identity and pride, I will tell you from my personal experience that as a member of the Defence and Security Board, I have been in a position to speak to the leaders of that evil NATO alliance. Only a few years ago did we go to what they say is the center of the Allied forces, where the planes that bombed our country without doubt, to Shape, near Brussels, and we, even then, realized that they had a clear intention to condition Serbia's entry into the EU, against which we also, because it is breaking our country, hijacking KIM, and NATO's pact in 1999 and occupying our southern province, we understood a few years ago from the presentation of NATO's adviser to NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, that their intention was to drag Serbia into Euro-Atlantic integration. The other day, Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration, said that it is kind of natural and we now have to say, and, of course, the data, fortunately, is such a definition of Serbia's citizens, saying that at least four-fifths of Serbia's citizens, if research were now conducted, is explicitly against Serbia's entry into the NATO Pact. Then it is amazing that Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac today is in the middle of a controversy with another colleague trying to separate his position and position of DS. He was not elected as Dragan Sutanovac from a Belgrade street, but rather as a match between Boris Tadic and DS, and it is not true what he said was not being prepared and that he did not dream that he would one day be defence minister. Yes, because he's Marshall's student, because I know, because we spent six or seven years together in the Defence and Security Committee, and somehow it was his focus. Had it not been for that, he would have been pleased to be the interior minister, of course, that some security sector, but from another perspective. What Serbia survives today and the way you go through the professionalisation of the army, against which it is not the SRS, as Mr Dragan Todorovic said in his presentation, is not the path Serbia should go. The NATO Pact, as aggressive and as an occupation military alliance, which has done a lot of terrible by breaking Serbia's national, religious and ethnic space through occupying other free countries and conquering these peoples, is certainly someone who has neither had nor had any good intentions towards our country. We are at these seminars, and so are our parliamentarians, when they go to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, we can hear that they all repeat the same story. Serbia's entry into the NATO Pact, in this environment, as a country that has such a position, is a strategic role in the Balkans, is a safer and better variant, i.e. an alternative to Serbia, which is not true at all and all that they are not aggressors, which is the whole free world knows, because I have to remind you that these arguments were such and have no empirical confirmation yet in 1974 on the subject of allegedly the same status for Turkey and Greece, and then the Americans, according to their imperialistic position and hegemonistism, are conquering other countries, occupying, occupying territories, killing civilians, destroying armies, putting themselves open to the side of Turkey and today, and you know that this dispute between Turkey and Greece, when it comes to Cyprus, is not over. Last year, as a participant of another parliamentary delegation, along with counterpart Donko Banovic, I visited Golanska Visoravan. You know, and many Serbian citizens forgot when the war started between Syria and Israel. Now to take advantage of the opportunity to say that at that conference of free Arab countries from the world, especially after the occupation of Iraq and the overthrow of power, and later on killing Saddam Hussein, we understood from the friendly Arab world, which supports us, ladies and gentlemen of the Democrats, in the UN Security Council, and does not allow most of these countries to secession and the creation of a Shipatarian creation, which they call a state, that it is an obvious intention, since one of the participants also spoke about it at the NATO Pact conference, to establish here through full instrumentation and through their interests that it has both in the Balkans and that this neural point and Serbia is very important to them. Mr. Sutanovac knows all that, but he doesn't care. It serves the interests of the West, America and the Western European Union. That's what Boris Tadic and all the parties in power do. We are against it, and we must constantly tell the citizens of Serbia that it is not only a great danger, in terms of the loss of territory and our national identity... I welcome Mr. Minister, who has already entered the finals of this speech here, but I must, Mr. Minister, tell you that in that dialogue with Mr. Todorovic, not knowing probably, and you said that you were one of the best acquaintances, as a politician of domestic, world weapons, ignored the fact, because we learned that when we were staying at the Golan High School last year, at the conference, it was not true that the tanks of T55 were destroyed and that they had no use at all. The Israeli army has just equipped them in a different way and exploited them, not toss them into old iron, as you intend these remaining 495, and they have captured them from the T55 tank in that war with Egypt and Syria, one of the best armored vehicles, which includes seven plus three soldiers, a transport vehicle. I hope you don't kill that information at all. You can find that, look at every website. It was not a military secret for the Israeli army, and it was not right to react in such a way when Mr. Todorovic told you, because you know very well that with such a modification, here, the army of a country, which later produced its tank, has exploited what was its spoil. As far as Serbia and the Serbian people are concerned, I am absolutely convinced that through our activities in parliament and through what we are doing, and as an SRS, we have defined ourselves as such at our recently held 8th Motherland Congress, with the help of friendly and brotherly Russia and above all the statements given by their officials here in Serbia, and that we are not talking about everything that Mr Putin and Medvedev are doing on the world's military and political scene, we will try to promote here in the Serbian Parliament the SRS's pledge to join the ODKB organisation, which many Serbian citizens still do not know. It is an organisation that was created in 2002, an organisation of a collective security contract, which is otherwise called small NATO because of the fact that it operates sectorally through its western, Caucasus and sector, which is designed to operate in operations related to the prevention of drug trafficking and weapons. On the other hand, I must tell you, Mr Sutanovac, because it was also a negative reaction then by the chairman, Mrs Komic, to our mention of Serbia's participation in the ODKB, i.e. after that, when Mrs Komic said that she had not responded correctly and asked the Secretary-General, Mr Odalovic, to inform me, as vice-president of the Assembly, whether the Serbian Parliament was invited after the participation of our parliamentary delegation recently in Petrograd at the ODKB conference to join as an observer for this organisation, which wants to protect Serbia, our territorial sovereignty and integrity. I found out, here to inform you from the ruling party, the truth is that on November 23rd of this year, Mr Grizlov, President of the Russian State Dume, sent a letter to Ms. Slavica Djukuć Dejanovic and said that the ODKB is calling on Serbia to have observer status and that we define ourselves. We will wait and see how you define yourself, but in any case you should know that the insistence of each Serbian patriot is to maintain the glorious tradition of the Serb army. I am convinced that Serbia will never become, unfortunately for you, Mr Sutanovac, a member of the NATO Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47955	14 minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. Mr. Otto Kishmarton has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47956	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will say something about amendments to the Law on military, labour and material obligations, as well as the proposal for a decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military term. Under the proposal for a decision to suspend military service from 1 January 2011, only those young men who wish to serve a military term, who will serve for three months, will go to military service. So, since 2011, we'll have a professional army, or paid. At the same time, we will have those young men who will volunteer to serve the army, not paid, but will receive other benefits. Some of you may be taking the C category, someone will get the conditions that they can carry weapons in a civilian, etc. On the proposal, the paid army will count, as far as I've heard, over 10,000 soldiers and more, plus volunteers who go for three months. The professional army, according to the Serbian government, should lead to better military preparation, i.e. better training of soldiers, better equipment and readiness to carry out the most difficult tasks in the country and abroad, while saving at the same time. The material we have obtained says that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget because it does not create additional commitments for the budget. It is the government's opinion, and the government has given the wrong opinion several times in recent years, and we have heard from the minister that this army, which will be paid in the future, requires more money. We also heard there's not enough money in the equipment budget. Interestingly, this is a historic decision for Serbia, a decision to professionalise the military and end military obligations in the public has not caused any loud comments, as if it were not about Serbia's important historical decision. Dear colleagues, we were once proud of our soldiers and our army. Children were proud to join the army, and parents were more happy than worried that their children were standing up for the army and serving their country. The rules were great celebrations and soldiers' emissaries because mature men were returning from the army, ready for marriage and life. Today, the government wants to abolish its regular military obligation even though citizens have not answered the question. The question is whether citizens have confidence in the military and want to serve a regular military term or not they want to join the regular army. This would be the best answer if the citizens were asked, of course not in the campaign, but in the referendum. Whether the citizens want a regular army or not, it's a minister and we don't know. We are not even familiar with young people's response to Serbia's army. Based on the current presentation of the minister, we could get the impression that the citizens do not want to join the army, so a paid army is being introduced. That's probably incorrect. If it's a minor response to military service, why is that, and if it's a good response why the regular army is abolished. Our country has always had a strong and respected army. Our army was valued and respected not only by our citizens, but also by neighbouring countries, as well as by the world. We had famous military leaders, generals, heroes, respected in the country and the world. What happened was that citizens who have a rich military history so indifferently observe the abolition of the military obligation i.e. Military service? Of course, I don't think the citizens will give up a lot of military service, but I think it will fit those who want to go to military school, as well as those who want to be a professional army. It is certain that these are far more than the army will ever be able to accept in its composition. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Military Obligation Act, this law should provide a normative and legal framework for voluntary military service. This proposed law cannot be regulated by voluntary military service because it differs significantly from compulsory military service on the basis of a recruiting obligation. Amendments and additions to only a few provisions of this law cannot be regulated because provisions are obtained that are incomplete, unclear and contradictory, which will certainly lead to many problems in application. Voluntary service differs significantly from compulsory service, and therefore the legal position and rights and obligations of soldiers must be arranged in a different way. This can be done by passing a special law that would settle this issue in a clear and clear way. Therefore, it takes a voluntary service of the military deadline to be arranged by a special law. The determination of voluntary military service to government regulations is not in accordance with the Constitution. The government can only lay down regulations to enforce the law. Such a provision creates conditions that the government originally regulates the rights and obligations of persons who voluntarily serve the military term, since the issue is not fully governed by this and other law. Voluntary military service differs significantly from compulsory service with respect to the rights and obligations of soldiers, and this must be fully regulated by law. Since it's not governed by this law, it's more celibate to regulate it by a special law than to make changes to this law. If it were to be regulated by this law, it would be necessary to add a whole chapter that would regulate the issue, but in that case there could be problems in interpreting the law, and it is better for that reason to pass a special law. Dear fellow SNS MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia, submitted several amendments to the proposed laws aimed at correcting these legal proposals to benefit both Serbian citizens and Serbia's army. The SNS wants us to have an army that will be respected by Serbian citizens as well as the whole world. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, since the assembly majority will adopt such a legislative proposal, as has been happening so far, without accepting the opposition's amendment, Serbia will receive a professional army. I want to believe that it will be an army worth respect, extremely well-trained and equipped with modern weapons. I want our army to be respected again by our neighbours, as well as the rest of the world, that the army keeps us peace and that there is no need to use military force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47957	Eight minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. The People's MP Miletic Mihajlovic has the word, followed by the MP Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47958	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a central issue on the agenda – a proposal for a decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military term. In this regard, we also have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on military, labour and material obligations. The reason for this decision to suspend the military service obligation is to achieve the views of the adopted Defence Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, which was made in the earlier period, and from the acts taken on the structure and functional organisation of our army. It is realistic to see that we live in the 21st century today and that many circumstances and conditions have changed compared to earlier times. Today is not what was ten or twenty years ago, not to talk about conditions and technology, about the relationship of forces in the environment and beyond, what they were 50 or 100 years ago. So it's impossible to think in a way like in the previous period and it's impossible to make some parallels that would compare today and people's relationship to the country's defence issue in case someone attacked us, with what was hundreds of years ago, during the Balkan wars or World War I, at the time of the Thessaloniki front, etc., when we had a large number of soldiers and people in office of defence and who were winning Serbia's interests at the time. But since then, we and today have certain consequences regarding what today's biological or reproductive potential is for our people and this country. So, even after a hundred years, we have consequences that can be fatal in about 50 or 100 years in the future and even after the survival of the Serbian people and this state. Of course, the new circumstances in which we live today make us adapt to new conditions, also counting on technological developments, counting on new relations between states, counting on the integrations that should follow, and certainly leading to the adoption of such a new defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia, which today condition the decision to suspend the military service obligation. Of course, the possibility of voluntary military service has been left, which is certainly good, because the state of consciousness in certain parts of our people should be respected, in line with what is a personal feeling or a collective feeling and a personal relationship to this thing. Therefore, this law solves it in principle of contrast – it has been and gone, there has been service and can no longer be. Thus, the possibility of such a transition and the inclusion of all those people, or young worlds, in the defense of the country, is left, that is, in the service of the military period if they so wish. I think that's quite a good solution. We will see what this relationship will be and what result it will give in the next period. Regarding what it is, we also have a question and a rationalisation that can certainly contribute to what needs to be the modernisation of Serbia's army, because by reducing the number of professional soldiers and those who will volunteer to serve a soldier, we have the possibility of more engagement of those funds that have gone towards meeting the costs of a greater quantity, or the number of soldiers that were in the earlier period. Also, we also have a question of the property of the Serbian Army that has lost its function at this time, the real functions and which should be used in a particular direction, again for modernising or meeting certain needs of people who worked in the military in the earlier period, whether it is about housing, whether it is about using these funds to build some facilities that are now in office or which will be in function for the needs of the Army. This property should be used adequately. It is, for example, about barracks, land, polygons and other objects that the military will use adequately either through sale or otherwise. However, I will mention that there may be certain facilities that have been given to the military for use during the time when there was a need, and that these facilities should return to the former owner at a given moment after the end of the need. I'll be free to mention one such object here. It is about the former House of JNA, later it was called the House of the Army of Yugoslavia, then the House of Serbia in Petrovac in Mlava, which was in the early 50s, and this House of craftsmen was given by the craftsmen and the assembly of the municipality, at the time, to the use of the Yugoslavia/JNA Army, where the contract with the clause was made – while the need to use this home or this facility stands, JNA is given. I think there are different interpretations about this question, in terms of whether the need has stopped today or not. I don't want to explain this issue here very much right now, but I would simply ask Mr. Minister to look at this issue together with the representatives of the local self-government and that he, with the associates he has appointed, try to find a way to resolve this issue to mutual satisfaction. So if one agreement on giving the facility was so defined that it goes in a sense that it was given to use while there is a need, then it is time to return it to the former user or if we come to a conclusion, in another way. We need to find some agreement to please and our armies, which we must take care of and those environments that were addressed to the needs of the military, both at that time and today. It is a simple attitude and local self-government in Petrovac on Mlava and no explicitness in this, nor does that local self-government broadcast towards Serbia's military, nor does I personally as a national MP representing that environment. Finally, Mr. Minister, I would say that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this decision and this bill on amendments to the Law on military, labour and material obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47959	Ten minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji. After him, MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, it is a pleasure to speak on this subject today, given that we can truly be pleased and proud of Serbia's Army. When I say Serbia, it's really a lot of my heart, because it's no longer some artificial creation, which has been called different names in the past period, and heartily supported by a number of parties sitting in our parliament today, a country that actually, I can freely say, has devastated the army. Given that when we talk about different types of megdans, I unfortunately participated in all the megdays that were happening in these premises in 1990, 1991, 1999, and that I was sick of it, and that my memory of it was very traumatic. In 1990, I was regularly in the army of then-Yugoslavia, on the border as an 18-year-old boy in charge of combat ammunition. In 1991, I was in Vukovar and Bor’s settlement, Ernestine and Paul’s court. There I lost my friends, my close friends, and there I was, when I was moving in an attack on Paul's court, got two tears, which I wasn't trained to handle. It was a policy of that time and politics must take care of, in fact, the interests of its people. The army is a people's, and even for starters, in order for all of this to work, the people must exist, and cannot be killed and politics cannot be guided by policy against the interests of your own people. No one can say that real politics is the policy that leads to the extermination of its people. It was a policy that was conducted in the 1990s. We heard here today about military neutrality, I'm sure that if we were to explain in detail to the citizens what military neutrality means, I'm sure that in the referendum today she wouldn't have passed, and that there are many more rational arguments for NATO membership today, but for military neutrality, because we have to think with reason, common sense, and not heart, as many times in history, and that cost us. With this law and this decision, one who does not want to go to the army will lose nothing (SRS emissaries are getting out of place). Yes, yes, as far as Satellite is concerned, you know very well who handled the case. Yeah, yeah, you know that very well. So whoever wants to join the army, who wants to be a professional soldier, he gets top-notch training, gets a call that's honorable, which is fair, gets standards, gets to start a uniform, won't get two tears whose handling isn't dressed. Therefore, these are the standards of a modern Serbian unity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47961	I ask the MPs of Dragan Todorovic, Nemanja Sarovic and Zoran Krasic not to violate the Rules of Procedure. I secondly warn MP Dragan Todorovic that if he believes it is necessary to give him the warning measure, in order to enable normal work of the Assembly, I am available. If he believes he should leave the session because he cannot comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are also at his disposal. Thank you. Excuse me, MP, continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47962	It is certain that he will receive top-notch training, that he will get conditions for a man's life, because he is a man. A Serb in this country should also be at the centre of attention and should be given conditions for a normal life and be realized after his profession, which is what the Law and the decision on professionalisation of the army are about to change. We have to make sure we're in the company of the strongest, not the weakest. The best soldier is that soldier who's fully and professionally trained to do his duty. Traditional courage, calling to, I don't know, bright traditions, that doesn't mean anything, even a professional soldier can be a weakness. A professional soldier is valued according to the degree of his training and his success is appreciated by the degree of training, not by whether he has a greater or less heart, or by the light of his people's history. How are we going to motivate people to go to the army and be professionals on their call? We will motivate them in this way, which will never again exist in this country a political environment that will wage pointless wars. So policies that will be turned towards pointless wars in the region. That moment, so in such a Serbia, we want to live and we will not let such a Serbia come into question. So, we strive for modern tendencies, towards membership with countries in the region, towards membership in the NATO Pact because it simply requires common sense, because we are willing to forgive if we are Orthodox Christians, but we are not ready to forget. We must never forget, and we must learn from our own experience, but in any case, it is high time to think with common sense, not heart. As for Satellite, I've already answered. So there's no need to keep repeating. So the G17 plus was processed by a man who was, in that place, in contrast, never led a G17 plus policy that was at the expense of his people, a policy that led to the collapse, among other things, not just the profession of soldiers but all the other professions in this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47963	Six minutes of time used by the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dusan Maric, followed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47964	Ladies and gentlemen, as we conduct this debate, part of this country is under occupation. I mean Kosovo and Metohija. In Raško Mufti Zukorlic, he threatens a new war, creates a new Kosovo, holds rallys in which Turkish flags fly and calls for the restoration of the Ottoman Empire. In northern Hungary, they seek territorial autonomy. In the west, Republika Srpska Krajina is occupied, and NATO's pact and followers of Ali Izetbegovic seek to destroy Republika Srpska. Any normal state that would face these security challenges would strengthen its army. Serbia is doing the opposite. She weakens her army, and instead of a military parade, she organizes gay parades. Since 5 October 2000, the planned collapse of the Serbian Army has been carried out through drastically, scytheically, uncontrollably, as has been recognised here by Minister Sutanovac, a reduction in the number of soldiers and officers, through the uncontrolled destruction of military technique and through the unreasonable early retirement of military personnel. The most dramatic example of the destruction of military technology certainly represents the destruction of 2,000 hand-held anti-aircraft systems, which were destroyed by the order of the then defence minister and the current President Boris Tadic. Over the past ten years, the early retirement of more than 1,000 officers, who successfully opposed NATO's pact with their army, the most powerful alliance in the history of civilization, and who would wish for any army in the world. They are all retired precisely because they successfully fought against the NATO Pact. This destruction of its own army, the current state leadership calls it a successful military reform. The result of the reform is the following: Serbia's Army, an extremely powerful army that successfully opposed NATO's pact, which has impressed the domestic and world public, no one considers Serbia or outside Serbia to be strong enough, real power and a threat to a new aggressor. I remind you again that we are a country whose territory is under occupation. Eventually, in five or 50 years, Serbia, if it wants to be a normal state, will have to free its territory. When it will depend on international circumstances. It will be the moment our friends in the world become stronger than our enemies. But even if KIM were to give up, Serbia must have a strong army because the enemies did not give up the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Is there anyone in this hall who believes that the NATO Pact and the United States will not continue to wage a special war against Serbia, with the intention of further tearing up its territory or that the Shiphars will not continue to work to realize their idea of creating a great Albania on Serbia's territory? Is there anyone who believes that Croatia and Hungary and their Western sponsors have given up the idea of separating Vojvodina from Serbia and that the border of this republic is 500 meters north of Ada, on Brank Bridge? Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that in the current stage of the development of the military's professionalization technique, there is one need, and we in the SRS support it. However, we do not agree that we are creating a professional army according to NATO's pact standards, and we even less agree that Serbia will become a member of this international terrorist organisation in the future. Secondly, Serbia must not allow itself the luxury of not having the most basic elemental training of military knowledge and skills, that young men of 20 or 30 don't know at all how to handle weapons, the most ordinary rifle. I ask one question – what will happen if Serbia is still at war in the next 20 or 30 years? He will have to mobilize these 90,000 young men mentioned by Minister Sutanovac, who served an official military deadline, and have never seen a gun or a barracks. I ask the question – what will these young people represent on the battlefield? They will represent the clay pigeons and the deadly danger both in themselves and in their comrades. Under this law, young men who are 18 will be recruited, will receive a military book and will receive a military schedule. I think it's in a common conflict with common sense, to say the least. How is it possible for young men who are 18 years of age, for whom you did not plan to go through any military training, to determine a war schedule, and to send them to war tomorrow, in the same way that in 1945, Joseph Broz sent tens of thousands of Serbian young men to die on the Sremski front? Mr. Ivanji here complains that in 1991, in Paul's court, he owed two oatmeals, and he didn't know how to handle it. Imagine what it's just absurd to have us, God forbid, mobilize 90,000 soldiers tomorrow, and none of us know what a normal rifle looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no good army, no matter the weapons, no strong national consciousness and patriotism of its members, without the willingness to sacrifice for its homeland. You, with your own policy, defense of your country, have brought every citizen's greatest duty to a level of work, dangerous jobs, and even crimes. Here's how. Under pressure from a powerful Turkish empire, Milos Obrenovic in Istanbul, Carigrad, handed over the head of dead Karadzic Petrovic. That is what is today seen as one of the biggest shames in Serbian history. You, we remind you, have handed over 20 living Serb leaders to these new Ottomans from 1999 to 1999, who commanded the defence of the Serb people in the 1991-1999 wars. I remind you, since military topics are on the agenda, you have handed over the complete Supreme Command of Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia, including NATO Defence Commander Slobodan Milosevic, to take him there and to kill him there. Instead of Vladimir Lazarevic, Ratko Mladic and other proven warlords...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47965	I would, of course, ask you to bring the International War Crimes Tribunal to The Hague very quickly in connection with the topic of the agenda, which reads – Amendment and Completion of the Law on Material and Working Obligations, and the decision to abolish the obligation to serve the military deadline. Since these two topics are not in any connection, I ask you to bring them into a relationship, if you can at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47966	Okay. Thank you for your warning, I will never touch this subject again. So, instead of creating a role model and national myths from Vladimir Lazarevic and other Serbian commanders, who proved themselves in the wars to defend the Republic of Serbia, Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, you make them through a media link to war criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47967	People's MP, do you understand me? I warned you of Article 106(1) on your obligation to speak on the subject of the agenda, with a reminder that I have full understanding, as well as other MPs, of how broad the subject is for argumentation and style, but that the state obligation and co-operation with the International Court of War Crimes in The Hague in your previous presentation is in no way related to the points of the agenda. This is now a warning and a reminder of my obligation under Article 103(7), or Articles 108 to 111, to bring the subject to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47968	Mrs. Comic, I owe you an explanation. I was saying there's no strong army without strong national consciousness, and strong national consciousness can't be if you people who fought for the defense of the country are branded before they're legally convicted of being war criminals, culprits, criminals, etc. But let's move on. I ask another question – have you considered how many military officials today, in case, God forbid, there is a need for war mobilization, to respond to an invitation to defend the Republic of Serbia? I think, unfortunately, that the number of deserters would be much higher than the number of soldiers. This is the result of a policy run from 5 October 2000 to today, a policy that convinces Serbian youths that it is better to be a deserter than a soldier who defends his country. Finally, I ask the minister to explain, the same thing Mr. Dragan Todorovic asked, how is it not the military in direct television transmission to announce that the Serbian Army has 800 tanks, of which the T55-500 tanks, the M84-300 tanks, has 4,000 Arrows, and the military secret is how many Arrows were destroyed by the order of the then defence minister? Secondly, who and on what basis determined that 4,000 arrows were enough to defend the Republic of Serbia? The answer is the NATO Pact. I think this is another thing that's not in good relationships with common sense. The only one who can carry out an air aggression against the Republic of Serbia is the NATO Pact and this same NATO pact determines how much funds we will defend against its aggression. I remind you, during the NATO Pact's aggression against the Republic of Serbia, there were more than 700 aircraft flying over Serbia daily. Now I'm doing one simple math, if we have 700 planes, let's just have one tool, if we fire one arrow at each plane, we've got 4,000 arrows, we'll spend all these supplies in five days. If we shoot only every tenth of the plane, which I think is more rational, these supplies will last us for about 40 days. Now I'm asking a question - what are we going to do after we shoot a potential aggressor? Are we gonna do this with guns? Are these 90,000 soldiers who haven't seen the gun going to do it or are we going to do it with a slingshot?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47969	Ten minutes and 30 seconds the time of the parliamentary group was used. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47970	I have to say, he's nice...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47971	National MP Nemanja Sarovic, you have already been warned that the discard is forbidden and that you are acting beyond the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Now I warn you twice, after which I give you a warning measure, if you repeat the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The People's MP had time of 11 minutes and 15 seconds. I said it was time he spent 10 minutes and 30 seconds. Either listen more carefully or be prepared to suffer sanctions because of your rude conduct. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47972	Let's continue the discussion at the level of simple mathematics. The simple mathematics says -- there were 700 planes a day in the sky, we had so many arrows, now we only have 4,000, and imagine 700 planes from that 4,000 crash all 700, so tomorrow comes 700 and 700 more and so 4,000 pieces. That's what simple mathematics looks like, and objective mathematics says that the Arrow 2m is an anti-aircraft rocket that has a range of 3.5km, shot in the outgoing part of the plane. An arrow 2m hasn't hit any planes for many years, and there's a danger of hitting a civilian plane, because objectively now with its characteristics it can do so. It's a very interesting exposure and about how we invent war, someone attacked us, and who's going to defend ourselves, how we're going to defend ourselves, and the hook up of the son of Radovan, but we need to know, there's some national security strategy, there are some strategic documents, there are people who are dealing with it, so people are educated, educated, and they're considering the challenges of risk and threat. So it's said that if someone attacked you should have a minimum of three times the army, so they say someone there has already professionalized before us, he already has the kind of army we want to have, or he doesn't have what we don't have, and he's had the same civil service, so he's got to call from civilian service to attack us and that one apocalypse you're showing doesn't exist in Spielberg movies. Don't scare the people with some story that just doesn't stand. First, Serbia has no enemies in the environment. Secondly, the only army bigger than Serbia is Romanian, we'll agree, we've never fought with Romania, at least we can agree on that. Every other army is much smaller, even two and three together can't threaten us. This kind of concern that you show by supporting this law, and in fact you support it because you know that most citizens of Serbia support it, and you are essentially against it, simply all of it must have a certain explanation. Everything you said about the Arrows 2m, about the T-55 tank, about the Golan High, for I don't know what it just doesn't stand for. I'm not telling you this because I'm a man who understands everything very much, but because I'm a man who presides over the Defence Minister's College, because there are generals in that college, because I believe in the profession and in the people who give the appraisal. If the waist says we need 1,700 missiles, those missiles usually have a lifetime, you should know that, so when they run out of time, we have to destroy them, so we pay for the destruction. If the waist says so, I really don't see why you would doubt the profession. The story in which the most experienced have left the system, let's ask the question differently, should the most inexperienced leave the system, should those who have the least internships or those who have the most internships go into retirement? Is it supposed to go in a row or some kind of sympathies? The year 1999 was 11 years ago. 11 years ago, people were generals, retired. Find me two generals who took part in the attack on Serbia, who were active, retired and they. The world picture changed, and you stayed in 1999. Come on, step out a little, it's been a century, it's been a millennium. We've entered the second decade of the 21st century. So we have new officers, new generals, new colonels, people who are also war participants, were also not on the list. Those who committed war crimes are suspected of war crimes, but doesn't mean they're less heroes or they're bigger heroes. They were equally involved in defending the country, and I'm sorry you say that, because I often talk to people who don't understand what you're saying. General Miletic, Cirkovic, don't you mean to say they didn't defend Serbia? What you're saying doesn't stand, but... Is time limited for me, too?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47973	I ask MP Dragan to, if he forgets, look at the Rules of Procedure and see what is allowed and what is not allowed to be done at the National Assembly session. Please stop breaking the rules of the Rules of Procedure and, if you really want the session and the order to always come down to doing the most unpleasant thing for each chairman, I give you the penalty measures, I am at your disposal. This really goes beyond any measure of parliamentaryism, any measure of behavior that can be tolerated in the desire to be a debate. I've asked you nicely several times, despite the fact that you had the basis to impose criminal measures. She didn't deserve the theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47974	I apologize, regarding the extradition to The Hague tribunal, and the first extradition to the tribunal was at a time when you were in power until 2000. A man who was a suspect named Drazen Erdemovic was extradited. The largest number of extraditions was just at a time when, under the circumstances, the country's prime minister was Vojislav Kostunica. And that's what you say, accusing us of sitting here as guilty.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47975	The word has the People's MP Dusan Maric, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47976	Mr. Minister, you've made a replacement of thesis here. I repeat, how many Arrows were destroyed by order of then-Minister Boris Tadic? Secondly, on the basis of which you concluded that 4,000 arrows were enough to defend the Republic of Serbia, its constitutional order and territory. I expect an answer, because today you answer all the questions. Third, who is the potential aggressor against Serbia, on what basis did you make this assessment? Is it the NATO Pact or do you expect aggression from the Russian Federation or the Republic of China? I took part in the war, lucky for me, for my pride, the unit I commanded was targeting NATO pact planes, I know that the Arrow can't hit a plane that's at high altitude, but it can distract those planes, to execute the dive, to lower altitudes, and to target them more precisely. So, if nothing else, that rocket has some significance in the sense of deterring enemy planes. In any case, there was no reasonable reason to destroy 2,000 missiles. Next, I'm really interested in how you're going to give a wartime schedule to young men who didn't serve the army, who have no idea what a rifle looks like, let alone know how to shoot it. So you have to find a solution. The SRS is for a professional army, but we don't think it's normal to have a 20-year-old boy who has a war schedule without knowing how to fire a bullet from a rifle. It's just not normal. We can't send these people to war, no one summons war, but why armies exist. The armies exist because, if necessary tomorrow, they would defend their homeland to wage wars. As far as retirement and military personnel are concerned, these officers and their war experiences gained on KIM and in the war against NATO pact are only good if they can speak well what this country has had from this aggression. Instead of using their knowledge and their experience, you drove them all to retirement, early retirement, Mr. Sutanovac. I really ask you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47977	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47978	Mr. Maric, you're telling the truth. Tell me one name that I retired early because he participated in the war in Kosovo, and I'll say you're right, one name, and now you have to say at least one name in this home, because you're performing as if we've driven out the brigades. I'll remind you, I've been Minister of Defense for three and a half years. Who decided how long the rocket took? The Council for Anti-Air Defence of the Serbian Army's General Staff decides on it, not me, so it's up to the waist, not me. If you're more expert than they are, and I see that you are, come to the General Staff and talk, tell them what your experiences are, your advice and what you think. I'll tell you, I'm sorry General Miletic left, the man is busy at the General Staff, that he personally led the KIM brigade, the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army, as well as other generals. The generals weren't just out there somewhere over the Drina, there were generals who fought at KIM, who are still in the army today. We've got a general, like General Zivkovic, who's got as many shrapnel in him, twice wounded. We have a general who led the fourth brigade, who was also wounded, we have a lot of people, we have a colonel without a hand, and they just retired those who deserve time to retire. From 2004 to 2007, there was a massacre with human personnel, so the saber cut the structure and people retired, and that's why I'm telling you all this. I can't bear that responsibility, because it's at a time when someone else was in power. From May 2007 to this day, give me one who was forced into early retirement because he fought in Kosovo and Metohija. Repeat, you're telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47979	The word has the People's MP Dusan Maric, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47980	I'll be very brief, Mr. Minister. I don't think it's right for you to talk to anyone. At no point did I say that the officers who are currently in command of Serbia's military are incompetent. I just said that in an unreasonable way, this country gave up the knowledge and experience of more than 1,000 officers who participated in the defence of the Republic of Serbia against the aggression of the NATO Pact. That's the first one. Second, I didn't say you retired them at all. They retired after 5 October 2000, and for me all those who rule Serbia after 5 October are absolutely the same. So I don't really see any significant differences here. The next thing you know about these names, believe me, it's an exact and verifiable piece of information, it's more than a thousand officers and officers. I really wouldn't name them right now. Some of them are, unfortunately, in The Hague tribunal, retired early because of Hague indictments, and some are also in these assembly benches. Once again I insist that you answer my question again, why is it a military secret to say how many Arrows have been destroyed, and not a military secret in a direct TV transmission to say that we have 4,000 Arrows? Why is the military secret to say, Boris Tadic has ordered the destruction of 2000 Arrows, and it is not a military secret to say we have 495 tanks M 55, T 55 and we have 300 tanks M84. Please explain these things to the citizens of Serbia and explain one of your sentences here, I think it would be interesting for the citizens to hear, you said, no more military secrets. Tell me, is there an army in the world where there is no military secret? We're the first country in the world that has no state secret, and now we're gonna be the first country in the world that doesn't have a military secret. I don't know how far your reforms will get us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47981	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47982	Indeed, if you ask me to tell you what you voted in parliament, I will tell you. Under the Secret Data Protection Act, there is no longer a classification of military secrets. It was here in parliament and you voted. There is an internal, confidential, top secret and state secret. It doesn't exist. Now you're asking me to explain why there's no military secret, I don't use that term because it simply doesn't exist in legal terms. Do you understand? That's the point. I called you earlier, as you ask me, and trust me on all the questions you're looking for answers, you'll get. I don't know how much Arrow was destroyed and how much was sold, but you'll get that answer, you'll get a written response to that answer. I'm curious, since you've been disabling us here for half an hour, give me one name of the officers that I'm retired for because there was a war in Kosovo. One officer. You told me I did it, now I didn't do it, now there's someone before me. Really, if you think you're having an argument with me about something someone did before me, it's not natural. I'm taking a turn with you in relation to the work I've been doing, by objectively taking the time of this session today, because today there's talk of professionalization that I see you taking a hearty stand for, which is extremely important to me and that you're modernizing yourself in the spirit of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47983	National MP Dusan Maric and this is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47984	Mr. Minister, once again to clarify, the SRS is in favour of professionalising the military, but I doubt your motives for what you're doing. We believe that you are adapting the Army of Serbia to NATO standards so that tomorrow you can make it easier to realise that basic order for Serbia to become a member of the NATO Pact. Next, the SRS did not vote for the adoption of the law that there was no military secret. On the contrary, we are in our congregation benches... .
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47985	Please speak with more respect about acts that are in force and applied in the Republic of Serbia. Whether or not an MP has voted, if the law has received the majority required, whether simple or qualified or most of the total number of MPs, that law is in force. I ask you to be more careful about the regulations that we all have to worry about being implemented and applied, whether we vote for them or not, especially to use the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47986	Mrs. Komic, I do not dispute that the law exists and that it should be respected, we from the SRS will do it anyway, as we always do. However, I was obliged to inform the public that it was simply not true that we supported the adoption of such a law. That's one thing. The second thing is, I don't understand how Minister Sutanovac can perform by system, I'm a defence minister, there is no continuity, and I have no responsibility for what my predecessors did, even though the predecessors were from the same political structures. Next thing you know, it's not true that the Arrows were sold. So the Arrows are destroyed, the Arrows are trampled and literally destroyed. I know there was a deal with the Americans that any destroyed Arrow would pay. However, this has never been done and Serbia's public has not been informed, as it has not been notified of what is with those five million dollars for the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic or five million dollars for the extradition of Radovan Karadzic...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47987	People's MP, you're entitled to a replica. If you intend to abuse so much of the precious right of free word, I really leave it to the public to see how much hypocrisy is in your criticism, that you are not allowed the right to a free word. It says clearly what a replica is and how a replica is obtained. Every MP has received a replica as many times as he has asked. Your will to abuse the right to a replica is indeed inappropriate to any provision written in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47988	Now I'm only calling you because I got a message from an officer who says, if you can't tell anyone who participated, and he's retired, then tell me about a soldier or a professional member of the Serbian Army who was in the army at the time, who wasn't involved in the war. Are there any? Everyone participated in the war, believe me, it's just a question of whether someone was deployed in Kosovo, deployed at the border one, the other, the third, etc. We're really dealing with something that's just not appropriate. Let me tell you, with all the mistrust you have of what I'm saying, you should know, the arrows are 21 and destroyed and sold. Destroyed and the surplus sold. So you don't have a dilemma at all about what I'm saying, I'm behind it all, and I guarantee it. You'll get it in writing and at what cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47989	National MP Dusan Maric has been reported. You have no right to a replica. National MP Konstantin Samofalov has a word, followed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable Minister of Sutanovac, at the very beginning I would like to clarify something for the citizens who are watching this transfer, and it refers to something that the distinguished colleague Todorovic mentioned during the afternoon debate, when he spoke to the ODKB, an organisation that gathers alongside the Russian Federation and the Central Asian Republic and called it the country's decision on collective security. As far as I know, and I've been tracking this matter a few years back, this forum is called collective security arrangements, ODKB or the English CST, and here's why I'm talking about this. Dear counterpart Todorovic mentioned on several occasions that Serbia should join the organisation, as well as counterpart Jovanovic. He was in St. Petersburg as a representative of the SRS, he was also president of the Defence and Security Committee, and he is assumed to be highly qualified to speak on this subject, advocates joining an organisation that I understand doesn't even know his name. That's very interesting to me. From the appearance of individual representatives of the opposition, I was under the impression that there is still some conflict between the countries of the Warsaw Treaty and the NATO Pact. Fortunately, these block divisions are gone. Russia and NATO both represent partners today. They co-operate through NATO's Russian council. We also saw Russian President Medvedev who was at a large historic NATO summit in Lisbon recently. These are the realities of the 21st century, and these realities are co-operation and partnership. They are based, above all, on the security interests of the countries, not on some long-forgotten love relationship, which my colleague Todorovic spoke of, from the 19th century. As for the decision that lies ahead, it certainly represents the introduction of a major reform of Serbian society, which will gradually lead us to an even more efficient and capable army, which will be in the direct interest of the security of our citizens. Although the Serbian Army probably now represents perhaps the most serious army in the Balkans region, and with professionalisation, we will only further strengthen the process. We must be aware that in the 21st century, the main dangers for both Serbia and other countries simply do not threaten from the direct aggression of other countries, from the invasion of thousands of tanks or planes, as we could get the impression from the discussion of individual MPs here, but are threatened with challenges such as organised crime, such as cyber terrorism, in the Western Balkans region, particularly religious extremism and terrorism. In order to protect ourselves from these threats, to defend those fundamental values of our society and the EU that we want to enter, it is democracy, human rights, personal freedom, we need to build, among other things, an effective defence system, and that is achieved, among other things, with the professionalisation of the armed forces. Such an army will certainly be more modern, more efficient and more willing to react in crisis situations. The question is, how much does this army cost, is it cheaper or more expensive? We've heard that a professional soldier costs little more than a recruit, whom you must dress, and that you train and treat him, that you equip him, and very little later, after six months of training, you can get back from him. A key question to be asked, which should interest our citizens, who as taxpayers pay this army and will pay and that professional army, is whether they will be more or less safe with it? I am convinced that with a professional army, citizens will be safer. We have heard that the interest in the professional army is very large and I am convinced that this is precisely why we will be able to choose the best quality personnel to do this job. It is also important to note that this decision only suspends military service obligations, so it is not abolished, which means that in some, no, God forbid, situations can be reintroduced to military service. Of course, for all those young people who want to continue serving the army, they will be able to do so voluntarily. It encourages the announcement that these young boys will also have girls and have the opportunity, i.e. they will have the advantage of hiring in certain state bodies in the Ministry of Defence, and hopefully, if they want to be professional soldiers later. Serbia has unequivocally defined in its strategic documents, the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy as strengthening its reputation in the world, improving its international position, including participation in various multinational operations. The professional army will further strengthen our capacities on this plan and certainly strengthen Serbia's external policy capacity, because the Serbian Army, that is, in the past few years and that strong weapons are in the hands of Serbian foreign policy. This is just another one in a series of steps that I am sure will contribute to further strengthening the reputation of the Serb army, which it enjoys in our people. According to the latest studies, as we've heard, it is indeed the most trusted institution in the country. There's a lot of reasons for that. We know the military industry is closing really record contracts. They employ factory workers who were really on the verge of collapse just a few years ago. On the other hand, military diplomacy skips some barriers. That's what my colleague Senic was talking about very well, in my opinion. Today, the defence minister, we have seen, open doors to heads of state and government in every country he wants to visit, as well as top officials from other countries, from chief of staff of such countries as China, Russia or the United States, are now coming to the Ministry of Defence. The military is also a factor in regional stability today. We must not forget that a recently signed military co-operation agreement has been signed with Croatia, with which we fought in the 1990s. With such an agreement, we have put an end to the years of conflict and certainly opened a new chapter in the positives of the two countries. It is good and looks forward to signing the same agreement with Albania. I hope it comes to this. We've been closely monitoring all these processes in the Defence and Security Committee. I am pleased to mention what our job is in the context of democratic and civilian control of the entire security sector. Unfortunately, the fact is that we had a board president who abused this function for party purposes, for personal promotion, and did not perform his duty adequately. Fortunately, he's not in charge of this very important body today. We have decided to divide this committee into two brand-new committees. One will be controlled by the military -- the MUP, and the other, the smallest committee in Serbia's Assembly, will be very specialised, security control, so the Military Security and Military Intelligence, BIA. In this way we will create bodies that will, I'm sure, be filled with top professionals, when we talk about MPs who will really do this job professionally. I hope that in the next assembly of the Assembly we will be able to further contribute to all processes in this area and to perform our control function in a much better way than we have done so far. Mr. Todorovic, unfortunately, was the chairman of this committee. What is the problem in Serbia, and this has been said, is that we had a neglect of the army that was brought on the sidelines of society by some 2005-2006. It was really on the sidelines of society, and we had a abandonment of weapons and military equipment. I hope that when we discuss some future Serbian budgets, we will also be able to free up significantly more funds for investment. That's what Minister Sutanovac was talking about. In this process of one regional force, which we certainly are now, we may become a truly serious European army. I will vote for this decision, I am sure that other colleagues from the ZES coalition will do so, and above all because I am convinced that professionalisation is in the direct interest of both Serbia and its citizens, and above all their security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47991	Nine minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47992	When it comes to knowledge, I'm sorry to have to involve the minister, but since you mentioned that his door is wide open all over the world, just to remind you of May 9th and to celebrate victory over fascism in Moscow. He is the only one not invited by Serbian representatives. As for the relationship between Russia and NATO, arguing that they co-operate, it shows an enormous amount of knowledge. It's just amazing. You know how much Russia and NATO have been cut off from every communication. Do you remember what happened in Georgia? Since then, Russia and NATO have not cooperated at all. Do you remember the problem with the missile shield? Do you remember the problem with Ukraine? You know, they cooperate, but how do they cooperate? By making it clear what limits the Russians will be able to tolerate moves made by the Americans and the NATO Pact. They won't cross any borders. Normally, they are trying to solve this by pointing to problems, and this is precisely why they have managed to make the missile shield issue no longer a stumbling block, but they have clearly said – if it is set up, Russian policy towards Western Europe and NATO will change. As for the ODKB, the decision of the state on collective security, I'm finally glad that someone from the DS mentioned that word, but I'm sorry that you're not essentially talking about one thing. What is the difference between the ODKB Assembly and the NATO Pact Assembly? We are not members of the NATO Pact, and we are part of the work of the assembly. Why can't we also be part of the work of the ODKB Assembly? Especially since some members of the ruling majority feel that there is no serious problem. I just mentioned it and asked that the congregation be informed whether the letter had arrived or not. I've been told I'm telling the truth. So the secretary of the assembly brought that letter and showed it. Then you see who's telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47993	People's MPs, since you're repeating the lie, look at the stenogram. I intervened when you talked about the first letter, not the second letter. For the second letter, it was delivered both to the secretary and to the original. You look at your discussion, so you will see that your remark that the National Assembly will not participate or hide the right to participate is false. You're cheating on the public. The letter was sent personally to the President of the Assembly, and the three MPs who went to the meeting were guests and my request was that you do not speak falsely, anything more and nothing less. The second letter, there is another letter, not the second, not the first, you first published the lie, and the second letter contains information that, of course, all the information you need will be given to both the MPs and the public. For the second time, I ask you not to deceive the public, but it has been tried around this famous first letter, to present this letter as a letter of co-operation between the Duma, or the Assembly of the Independent States and the National Assembly, and it has been explained that it is not true. I ask other MPs not to earn, since this is about the integrity of the institution in which we are all sitting, it is not about policies, it is about your will to demean the obligations that the National Assembly has, and I ask you not to do so. Indeed, do not do so, for talking about the first letter and meeting two months ago was a theme in the National Assembly, so I ask you not to do so. Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47994	Allow me, the position I'm in I'm not experiencing personal and international military co-operation, the co-operation in the area of defense we're building, I'm not building on personal grounds. I'm a man who's as professional here as you are, the Secretary of Defense, and while I'm getting calls as Secretary of Defense, I'm certainly building certain relationships. The call for participation in the May 9th parade was not received by anyone from the Serbian Army, nor by me as defence minister. Why? It's a question for those who organized the parade. At the same time, in front of Red Square and in Red Square were NATO troops, NATO troops of US Marines who had just returned from Afghanistan, French, British, Polish troops, carrying the NATO flag in the Red Square. Which is why our army was not welcome back then, I don't know, as I don't know how it is possible that on the anniversary in which Stipe Mesic was invited was not the president of the Republic of Serbia to attend the celebration several years ago. But it's not a personal matter, it's a matter of relationship to our country and tradition, to our army. If someone thinks we're not supposed to be in there, and I see you nod your head, it's something that's your personal matter. On the other hand, I am really trying to represent the state in the best possible way, first of all, the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia, and as such I have had the opportunity to be the first to meet, let's say, in China Shi Jin Ping, vice president of China, the future president of China, also the President of the China Parliament, Mr Wu, who is today the second man in China officially. I also had a chance to meet Sarkozy at a celebration of the end of World War I in Verden. I've had the opportunity to host the Department of Defense and Vice President Beyden of the United States, as well as Secretary of State Clinton. I also had opportunities to speak with the presidents of Turkey, Austria, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Croatia, Algeria, the prime ministers of Norway, Iraq, Libya, a large number of countries. I have to tell you, I didn't get the impression that none of them respected us. What you want to show here today in parliament, that our system, our state is not respected beyond the borders of the country in the way that it should be, I have to tell you that there are certain statistics that say that it is not true. I told you, the visits we had in Serbia by various ministers are so historic that some have never, absolutely never happened. Brazil's defence minister and president of Brazil have never been to Belgrade. The Secretary of Defense of China came on my call two years ago for the first time. In three years, I've even been there twice. What you're saying with a desire to demean me personally, please just, if you have something against me personally, feel free to say, it's not a dispute, but don't disrespect the Serbian Army in a way that you're saying everyone was invited to the Red Square, only we didn't say what you had to say, because if you say they were all invited, please list which, if they're not, as I said, American Marines, members of the French Guard, British and Polish, who are otherwise all in NATO and all of them, by the circumstances, came straight from Afghanistan to the Red Square.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47995	Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic has a word. National MP Dragan Todorovic, you have no right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47996	Mr Minister, representatives of the Serbian Ministry and Army, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to say that professionalisation of the Serbian Army is taking place in accordance with the times and demands of the time in which we live, with a valuable system that we have been building for a decade and that the reform of the army is certainly the most significant segment of the reform of the entire defence system. As a citizen of Serbia, I am proud that we have reformed such an important segment of both state and society and that as parliament we have brought very important strategic documents in 2009, and these documents are just the normative basis for further reform and professionalisation of the military. I am filled with a sense of pride when I am aware of the fact that the Serbian Army is part of the collective security system, when we are under a common umbrella in the Partnership for Peace, in which all countries are Western hemispheres, but also Russia and many other countries, which we actively participate in building on a new system of planetary security, in which the dangers and risks that existed in the mid- or late 20th century are today anachrons and overcome and that today humanity faces other kinds of risks and dangers. Serbia's army certainly has a significant place in the Southeast European region, but in general on the European continent and in the planetary frameworks, through everything I've been saying. I'm proud to see that members of my country's army have extremely good relations with the National Guard of Ohio. It's one big step after a decade of autism, isolation, xenophobia, and isolation, and excommunication from all over the world. I'm also proud, Mr. Minister, when I know we're involved in international multinational operations, in international missions. This is all the result of the extraordinary work of the Ministry of Defence, you, Mr. Minister, of the Serbian Army, but also of this parliament, which voted and brought important strategic documents. The defence of the state, international missions and support for civil structures are three main tasks and the main missions in the second decade of the 21st century and the Serbian Army are only professionalised and trained, among other things, in the way these documents ahead are predicted, can be quality-fulfilling and high-quality. The professionalization of the military through this decision and through this law, i.e. the amendment of this law that is before us, has its own political implications, its economic, foreign policy, but implications in terms of a value system that we are building. Through military reform, we send a clear message to both the EU and the United States and the world that we are a country that is building democratic institutions, which reformes the military and by introducing civilian control, strengthens that civilian control, primarily through the form of parliamentary control. We firmly support not only these decisions, but even the reform of the army conducted by Minister Sutanovac and his cabinet and the establishment of the Serbian Army. We will insist that the Serbian Army is a significant factor in the South East European Partnership for Peace region, we will insist and support that NATO standards that have largely been achieved already continue to be built and improved in many areas of Serbia's military. I want to say in the end that I'm going to vote, like all my colleagues from DS and the MEP group, for these documents that are ahead of us and say like an unspective tank T55, which no modelling can be fixed or modified, is also an anachronone one idea that we could hear today in this room, to stop time or, worse still, to get back some old time. On that behalf, I call once again on the other MPs, the opposition's ambassadors, to support the military's reform. This is not political, it is political, but it is not a political issue, but I am not optimistic that my appeal will come to the approval of the opposition, as the same MPs did, or the parliamentary groups did not vote even after we passed the laws that put Serbia on the white Schengen or that allowed Serbia to start joining European integration. I thank you once again for your attention and support these reform laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47997	Five minutes and 30 seconds. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He's not in the O.R. MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47998	Ladies and gentlemen, military reform, defence reform, all very important things for the state of Serbia. I would like to talk about the motion for a decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military deadline and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations. The proposed amendments to the law on military, labour and material obligations create conditions for the implementation of the tasks of professionalisation of the Serbian Army and ensure that young people are successfully referred to the voluntary service of the military term in the Serbian Army, which retains the link between the military and the people, ensures continuity of military obligations and preserves traditional values. This bill will voluntaryly serve the military term in the Serbian Army. The adoption of this bill also creates conditions for women to participate more significantly in Serbia's military structure. Then, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 43, which guarantees freedom of mind, conscience, conviction and religion, the right to remain in their belief or religion or to change them according to their own choice, allows those persons who, calling for conscience, have served a civil service or served a military term without a weapon, to change their trust and serve a military term with a weapon in principle of volunteering. With regard to the proposal for a decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military deadline, I must say that all of us, meaning both Parliament and the Government and the military, are aware of the challenges and dangers. Just because we know that there are three military missions, and in defence of the state, by participating in international missions and supporting civil structures, I believe that this is exactly the kind of decision that contributes to adapting the army's organisation to a new security environment. The decision and the law are in line with the defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia, in line with the strategic defence review and in line with Serbia's military doctrine. I'd like to say a few more things I think I have to say, since I'm from Panchev. About the importance of garrison in Panchev, I think that people who live outside the southern Banat, because just in Panchev, for many years, even decades have been stationed elite units of the Serbian Army, earlier Yugoslavia, and now Serbia. From the armored mechanized brigade, from the school center, from the military police, and now from the school center, the special brigade, the earlier '72st Special Brigade', then the anti-aircraft defenses, the engineering units, they're all units that we can be proud of, and the Pančevs can also be witnesses of good co-operation and are witnesses to support civil structures. When it was most difficult for the citizens of Panchev, we remember well in 2006, it wasn't so long ago, when large floods threatened the entire coast of the Danube and Tisa and other waterways, precisely the great involvement of engineering units in anti-aircraft defense and special brigades, thanks to these units and their participation, we managed to defend ourselves against ever such high waters in the southern Banat area. It was not easy to perform, but I have to say that just then co-operation and not only the units that were stationed in Pancheva, but also the armored-mechanized brigades in Topcider, when during the night on a phone call they managed to get the extraction tank to the village of Glogonj, next to Pancheva, and to mechanize, which threatened to stay underwater, practically extract. It's one example of good military cooperation and civil structures, and surely we don't have time to list good examples here, not just the help of the army to help when a serious accident happens to our people, as is the case when an earthquake or something like that happens. In any case, just professionalism and professional relationship to obligations, first of all I speak to officers and those who are professionally engaged in the military, contribute to the respect of this third mission properly and to the performance of tasks. Realising what is outlined in the defence strategy and making such decisions and laws will create conditions for more rational spending of funds. Conditions will be created to focus part of the financial resources on the development of modern weapons and equipment. As a Pančevac, I must be happy that just on December 1st, two ministers were in Pancheva, and that is the Minister of Defence and Minister of Economy and Regional Development. They were in a position to see the Utva plane factory on the spot and to see for themselves, and not only those, but all those who followed the visit, that Serbia is willing to support the production that has a future. It's part of a dedicated production that, if I'm not mistaken, about 200m euros won last year, and only 22m euros from export jobs in Iraq only in the case of the Lasta aircraft. It is this parallel engagement with regard to further promotion and reforming of the military and defence reform and the overall raising of the security system and linking with those economic activities that need to enable new material values, employment of people and the rise of businesses, that is what is done in a good way. We're the Panchos now. We are aware that members of Serbia's military, that the serious professional members of Serbia's army represent that segment of citizenship that not only in our workplace, but also in our social life, represents that force that should contribute to Serbia's further progress, precisely aware that by adopting such decisions and laws, we are contributing to the improvement of the situation in this area, we invite you to accept in the day to vote the proposals for decisions that lie ahead of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u47999	Eight minutes and 45 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, followed by the MP Jadranka Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the decision to suspend the service of the regular military deadline provides for the abolition of the service obligation and the possibility of serving a military term on a voluntary basis. However, all those young men who will not go into the army in the future will be introduced to the so-called. The reserve composition, which is said to be activated in the proposal for this decision only in the event of a serious threat to the country's security. The mobilization of these young men in reserve without any training and their involvement in war conditions along with professional composition can mean their sacrifice, because they would be very likely to represent only a cannon place, which means that such a concept of defence of state and nation through this way is a ruined army of very dangerous delusions and can even freely say pranks. A number of serious questions are raised regarding this decision. First, will the young men of 18 years without military training, without a day of military training represent a high-quality and reliable army in the event of a war, when they were not in peace motivated to serve a military term, let alone be motivated for military engagement in conditions of severe threat and security of the country? Will these young men and their parents agree to be cannon flesh in the defense of their country if our country is even preparing for defense? Will the professional composition of the army want and be able to command such unprepared timely, or untrained and incompetent soldiers, and will, in such conditions, accept the professional part of the army to carry out its obligation to defend the country? The Serbian people have a rich military tradition, a great historical experience that makes us cultivate an army cult because it was connected to the survival of our people. However, even after the 1990s and vicious NATO bombings, the aggression against the Serb people continues with unlimited intensity in various forms, from economic, cultural, political, economic, regional, to military. It just depends on which form of aggression or which forms are more present and intense at which point. The destruction of the military cult has been done in different ways, from the media abuse of soldiers at regular military service, to the fact that you've abolized deserters from the '90s and declared heroes, to the fact that you've declared the greatest Serbian heroes and warriors as criminals and you've sent them to The Hague tribunal, and you're supposed to expect someone to defend this country again tomorrow. We need to know both earlier and recent history, especially the history of genocide against the Serb people during the 20th century, in order to take time to take whatever it takes to ensure that the tragedy of genocide against the Serb people does not happen again in the 21st century. It is up to us, but it is also your responsibility not to allow us to be found unable to defend our naked lives, the lives of our children, our women, our parents, but also our property, our sanctity and our national territory. It is absurd to expect that the NATO Pact will defend us, because the claim that the NATO Pact will protect us in the event of future danger is pointless and based more on wishes that do not have any support in the real facts, and I must say that this thesis – there will never be any conflict again, because other than Serbia and all countries in the environment will be NATO members, it is simply not true. I will remind that Greece and Turkey are members of the NATO Pact, but that they have had fierce conflicts and are not excluded from having them in the future and that NATO's pact has not interfered. They are one of those unrealistic and naive desires that there will never be another conflict and that no one will attack us in the future, but that countries in the environment should not be ignored, unlike what Dragan Sutanovac said, and that they have territorial claims towards Serbia. Croatia does not hide claims on Serbia's Srem and parts. Albania, it is obvious to all, has territorial claims towards KIM, but also according to Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. Bulgaria is showing more and more open claims on eastern Serbia. Hungary on Vojvodina. Turkey has been intensively expanding its influence on the Balkans in recent years, especially on BiH and the Rask area. The only countries in the environment that do not appear so far are Romania, but when they see our country being torn apart without any resistance, it is practically not excluded and that they will look for a part of Serbia. Serbia has already paid a high price when by 1941 it trusted these stories of brotherhood and unity. You made us trust these stories again by 1991, and once again, the Serbian people suffered badly. Now you're talking again about some love and co-operation in the region, and history reminds us that Croatia attacked us whenever it had the chance. It is one thing to have an army appointed to have your beautiful president tell her – soldiers healthy, as he likes to do, and something completely different is to have a combatable army capable of protecting the state. A serious army is creating a long period of time, at least 15 to 20 years, and it's much harder to create an army than destroy it, and once you destroy it, you can't create an ad hoc when you need it. The impact you had from 2000 to today, from the bulldozer of the revolution to today, is devastating and if we were to start today it would probably take at least ten years of serious essential reforms for the army to recover from these so far called reforms. The minimum number of soldiers and professional and permanent who should have Serbia is estimated to be moving around 100,000 and anything below that number is extremely dangerous. What you are predicting is something beneath 11,000 soldiers, especially with the technique available to the RS Army, we cannot defend nor Srem, let alone all of Serbia. You talked about arrows on your own. You said that an arrow had not hit a single plane for many years, so that it could eventually hit a civilian, but then the question arises – what do we need arrows for the RS Army in the first place? The most invited to give an assessment of what kind of army Serbia needs is, I certainly think that the officers who went through the wars in the 1990s and who proved to be military commanders and strategists. Instead, they are retired today, and you are advised first of all by those who bombed RS and Republika Srpska in 1995. We heard here that NATO and UN troops defended the Serb people in Republika Srpska and KIM. I will remind that 600,000 Serbs have been expelled from Republika Srpska, that who knows how many properties of property, churches have been destroyed, and similar things have happened in KIM when care for citizens of RS, Serbian people, Serbian property and Serb sanctities were taken over by members of the NATO Pact and the international mission. What's particularly dangerous is that Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac has recently been disobeying the Constitution, and has just been calling for the Parliament's decisions. I must remind him that the decision of this assembly is that Serbia is neutral. You are required as an official, as RS minister to represent that opinion, whether you like it or not, and you are increasingly in favour of Serbia's membership in the NATO Pact and have recently even stated that this issue should not go even to the referendum, because my God and that the reform of the Serbian language and letters of Vuk Karadzic may not have received the necessary majority. It must be noted that Serbia today is not a problem with civilian military control, but rather with the control of military-controlled civilians. Mr. Sutanovac spoke and commented, asking whether Mr. Bozovic was a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and asking if he could even comment on the state of the army in the Republic of Serbia. As you start the topic, I will remind you that the current president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, was not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia or Montenegro at the time of his post as SRJ Minister of Defence, but rather a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then the logical question arises – how is it that someone who is not a citizen cannot comment, and someone who is a senior DS official, who was not a citizen of our country but a citizen of a foreign state, could even be a defence minister? You asked and talked about who served the army and who didn't. Even our current commander-in-chief, Boris Tadic, as far as I know, did not serve the army. But if I was wrong, I apologize. But it certainly didn't bother him to go around the region and apologize to everyone for some crimes allegedly committed on behalf of the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48001	National MP, your desire to speak of the President of the Republic is understandable, but this topic is far too far from the amendment and addition of the laws that are on the agenda. Therefore, unless you need to inform yourself if you want to put out a public word, for which I bear responsibility, then I would also ask you to remember that Article 106(1) implies the obligation to talk about the agenda. Serbia's president cannot possibly be in the context of amending and supplementing the laws on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48002	Another question I would like Mr. Sutanovac to answer is this dilemma that he has asked all of us who are against Serbia's entry into the NATO Pact – you said as an alternative that you were fighting the NATO Pact? That's something we heard from the MPs of another parliamentary group. Now you answer us if you've ever been given such an alternative? We heard some quasiarguments about why Serbia should enter and you said we were unable to prove why Serbia should not enter the NATO Pact. It is never a negative fact, but on the contrary – you need to prove what Serbia will do in the NATO Pact, you need to tell the citizens of Serbia how much it will cost us and what the economic price of entering the NATO Pact is. But if you claim and argue that Serbia is not threatening any danger, then why would Serbia enter the NATO Pact at any time? Professionalisation does not only mean reducing the number of soldiers and abolishing the regular military deadline, as you say, but primarily means modernising, better equipment and better training and using the most modern technique. That's why your comparison with the Russian Federation is wrong. The Russian Federation may be reducing the number of soldiers but its army remains among the most numerous in the world, and what is certain is that the war technique available by the Russian Federation is superior. In the end, all I have to say is that the SRS is not against the reforms and against the professionalization of the military, but we certainly are against the way you do it. Because what you're doing is not professionalising or modernising, it's destroying the military under the NATO Pact and the European Union's patronage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48003	12 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48004	Just for a little while, for the truth. It's often true here, and I think Serbian citizens should know that President Tadic never had Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship, but President Tadic's father was from Montenegro, so he had Serbian-Montenegro citizenship. Secondly, President Tadic served the army, as I served, since I heard such comments. Thirdly, since you're asking me questions, I would ask you who are the prominent experts who have estimated that Serbia should have 100,000 troops? One Romania, which has almost 20 million people and a few million people, has 90,000 and is reducing it. I'm just curious to know what this expert you're consulting who told you that we should have a minimum of 100,000 soldiers and that you're finally telling us that we know who we're correspondence with, because you're obviously just a transmitter, and some experts are sitting there somewhere sending signals? I sit here all day listening to things that don't really stand. I understand if you're attacking me, but don't say anything that doesn't stand, because there's no one numerically worth 1.2% of their population. It's the only thing Israel has, which is in a situation where it is and no one else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48005	National MP Nemanja Sarovic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48006	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac, but I'll remind you not to hold the session, but Mrs. Comic. You're slowly taking over one function at a time, but you've been in parliament for a long time, remember how things work. (President: absolutely do not be worried. ) Mrs. Comic, I tried to protect you from such a violent defence minister. I'd like to go back to the subject now. Mr Sutanovac, I responsibly claim that Boris Tadic was enrolled in the book of citizens of SRJ and the Republic of Serbia the day before he submitted his application for president of the Republic of Serbia for the first time. His father may be from Montenegro, but Boris Tadic was born in Sarajevo. He served as defence minister and was a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and entered our citizenship only a day before he submitted his candidacy for the president of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48007	The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48008	How do you have all this information and how do you know all this? It is true that he entered the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, but it is not true that he was a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So he was a citizen of a single country at the time -- Serbia-Montenegro. When he ran for president of the Republic, he was a citizen of Serbia-Montenegro, at the time of Montenegro. If you don't know, it wasn't the birthplace, it was the place where your father was registered. If I'm not mistaken, then you were also a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina? This situation is very clear and I personally took part in it, so you're wasting your time and energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48009	The word has an MP, Jadranka Jovisic. You no longer have the right to a replica. This kind of conversation doesn't use discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48010	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to see, unlike my predecessors, a little more positive about this change, because I really think it's one of the most positive things that's happened in our society lately. There are many reasons for contentment and commendation. We heard the minister today. In that sense, I would refer first of all to the good results that the Ministry of Defence achieved in 2009. Although many believe that the debate on military success is exclusively a man's issue, I would like to say that women also know very well that last year the South base was completed with Bujanovac, that various domestic and international military exercises were held there, that documents were adopted which are of strategic importance for the defence system. So, excellent results and I think we should mention them when we talk about this reform that is ahead of us, because it is the result of one continuity and good work of the Ministry in the previous period, to the day of today. When we talk about professionalising the military, we should actually talk about the importance of the Ministry of Defence that the reforms they have begun to implement to the end. So, I have to say, our people are already a little afraid of politicians who start reforms and never implement them. I'm very glad that exactly the minister of the DS reform he started in action. So he proved that what started and ended, regardless of what the 2010 budget was all just not developmental. What does professionalizing the Army mean for young people? It means choice. So anyone who wants can serve a military term. On the other hand, one who doesn't want to, doesn't have to serve. Therefore, the obligation to serve is lifted. In the past, we haven't had the opportunity to choose, and we all know where it took us. The professional Serbian Army will be strong and ready to respond to all obstacles set before it, much better than an army made up of soldiers who are under military obligation, especially because a professional soldier has much more motivation. So, he's paid for his service, he's very well-prepared and he's in a continuous training process and with quality training, with good education, he's worth four recruits. Democratic Party representatives see Serbia as a modern European state, and so should our army, therefore modern, modern, compatible with modern armies of the world. Citizens have great faith in the army. We heard today from Minister Sutanovac's statement that it did not come from anywhere and that both the minister and members of his ministry are people who are believed in Serbia today. To everyone who joins the professional army, I want success, especially to the first historical generation of girls among whom there will be girls pilots. I personally believe in the necessity of this reform. I believe that a vast number of young people will be pleased because someone has finally given them the opportunity to choose. That's never been the case before. I'm glad to be able to help this situation change for the better. I call on my other colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48011	Three minutes and 15 seconds used by the MPs' group. The word has a National MP Milan Vukovic, followed by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48012	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a great pleasure to see that something you may have experienced a few years ago as a dream becomes a reality. It doesn't happen every day in Serbia. By abolishing mandatory military service, we will achieve two very important things for each citizen of Serbia. On the one hand, we'll have a better army, so, better protection, professionals in their places. On the other hand, and what my predecessor Jovisic said, we will have freedom of choice, what my generations and generations before mine had not had. Boys who today are 18, 20, 25, live in Kragujevac, Krusevc, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Nis, the whole of Serbia, will have the freedom to choose whether they want their six months or nine months, those who served civil, a year ago, or more, to spend in the military, or on the other hand, to devote themselves to schooling, to get busy, to solve some personal problems. If they want to join the army, if they want to serve the military deadline, they're welcome and it's commendable. Why is the professional army better? We heard countless arguments today. In short, because she's professional. Is there anything professional that's not better than what's not professional? We also heard that one military professional is worth at least four in the operational sense of recruits, who just came to fulfill a patriotic or legal obligation, but they don't have that kind of motivation, they don't have that kind of training, they don't get paid, after all, from the military and the state. A professional soldier is ready 24 hours to take action. On the other hand, every new generation of recruits is being trained again and just when they learn something then they go back home, and if they don't use that knowledge for years, every student, every student, that knowledge that isn't being used, it stops being operational, so in a few years, the one who's been training in the military is the big question of whether he's ready to join the army. Serbia has no claim against other countries. We don't want to be a conquering country, we're not about to march on the surrounding countries, nor do we have any idea of entering the Liberation Wars, as we did during the Balkan wars. We don't need a giant army to mobilise the entire population. We need a professional army to meet modern challenges. Our army is already today, and with this reform especially, the most modern in the region and is seen as a factor of stability. Members of the Serbian Army today, in missions in the Ivory Coast, Liberia, Congo, Lebanon, I hope in other countries, as formerly members of the United Nations, countries, members of the United Nations came to Serbia, that is, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, to the space of the former Yugoslavia to preserve peace, and today our army will do so, and in the future, I hope with increasing capacity. We need a high-quality army that serves as a means of deterring the enemy. We don't want to threaten to bomb Vienna, bomb Rome, because in that case, if we want to threaten Vienna and Rome, it's not enough for us to recruit babies, women and old people, and then there won't be enough soldiers at our disposal and we won't be safe if we plan to do that. Our policy is peaceful and should remain that way. I see that there are many converts, those who have also called for European cities to be bombed, and today at their party meetings are calling on the ambassadors of the countries of the European Union and they have accepted at least formally our policy, but they do not understand until the end of what it means, because if they understood today we would hear, instead of unmistakable sentences, unequivocal support for the decision to abolish mandatory military service. Why is this decision a dream come true for my generation? Just because the army used to chase young people into Serbia, it forced them into wars they didn't understand, which the army itself didn't understand. That's what the state did. These people were not free citizens, they were cannon flesh of missed ideas and failed policies. Today, the army no longer invites anyone. As of January 1st next year, the army will no longer invite anyone, but many will call on the army to join it. That's right, it also tells you that nine and a half thousand people, of which 14% of women, signed up last year for the admission of 2,400 professional soldiers. Mandatory military service was introduced in Serbia until the end of the 19th century. So when we talk about tradition, we should consider tradition before that. This was introduced because the needs of the country's security and defence required it. It was then a world trend, such as today's world trend of professionalization. We don't break tradition, we just give one rational answer to today's needs. I've heard regrets from some speakers today in the debate, so they won't be able to drink brandy, they won't be able to make send-offs, and the good news is for them, and that's what the minister said, anyone who wants to join the army and go through that training will be able to do so, so there's going to be a send-off in Serbia. It's very important, and we should all work to make sure that these shipments don't go back to the past, send them to war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48013	Five minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Milan Avramovic, followed by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that the decision found on the agenda has found a foothold both in the Law in the Assembly and in the Law on military, labour and material obligations. But what has not found a foothold in this law has been demonstrated in a decision that we have on the agenda, is Article 135. The law on military, labour and material obligations, which says -- that after the professionalisation of the Serbian Army, and during emergency or wartime, the President of the Republic may decide to reintroduce the obligation to serve the military term, which may continue until the emergency or war is over. This proposal does not include Article 135(6), which says that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Government, can reactivate the obligation to serve the military term, in accordance with the provisions of this law. What does that mean in translation? Not citing the possibility that it has in this prefix of the previous position after professionalization, means that the Assembly and the Government have no authority after the decision of the one on the agenda. Now given the fact that we know how easily you are alarming the state of emergency, it is made clear only that the president of Serbia can undo everything that we are discussing today, this whole debate that we are having on these points of the agenda, as well as amnesty all that we have made as a conclusion, even trying to fix these two decisions. So we're essentially asking a question that's quite simple -- why did we waste time trying to convince you that you were wrong, when you know that? If the president is going to amnesty all of what we did today, then let the president go out in public, let him go out in the media, and let him say, "I promised in a pre-election campaign that I would end the army, I promised, I did, why do this to the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government." What is also important is that your aspirations towards the NATO Alliance and all that you are willing to sacrifice, both citizens and the budget, and I am particularly referring to entering the European Union, is to shut down the military itself. That is why you have achieved this by a law called the Amnesty Act, which was adopted on 23 March 2010, which was prepared for today's agenda. And then we told you that the Amnesty Act is not good, that you are destroying the image of the regular army and that you are doing everything that is contrary to the interest of the Serbian state. The Amnesty Act itself envisioned the avoidance of military obligations, the avoidance of regulations and checks, the non-execution of material obligations, the avoidance of military service by incapacitation or deception, the voluntary absence and escape from the military. The entity's amnesty involves the release from prosecution, the release from the execution of sentence and the erasure of conviction. So this law was a prerequisite for this, and we now claim that this is a prerequisite for entering the NATO Pact. Whether you believe us or not, it will show time. It is also a worrying analysis, the effects of this law, which reads – the application of this law will have a significant impact on better preparation of the organisation and completion of voluntary military service, leading to a planned, secure and complete army, i.e. the completion of Serbia's military and other defences to carry out planned missions and tasks. What are the scheduled missions and tasks, we will also see in the coming period, since the military is not under civilian control and we have time to conclude that. What is further foreseen by this bill? What's the difference, Mr. Minister, between professional officers and officers and a professional soldier? Does a professional soldier have an oath, some moral obligation, whether he has a professional soldier contract and when he can break it up, how that same soldier will act according to his maximum, or, God forbid, disappear for this country, if the labor contract says – as soon as you feel uncomfortable, you can quit. I think it's a comparison of these two things and how important, because you can't measure the former honor that is now forbidden or translated, voluntary departure with what used to be like in all previous wars, like World War I and II. Colonel Vlatkovic himself knows, who is in charge of human resources, that the health status of the recruiting population is very bad and that all those acting on a voluntary basis will not be able to do the job properly, given that their military term is three months. Until today, serving the military term, along with the element of the obligation, contained an element of honor. So serving the army was both honor and obligation, both in war and in peace, and now that honor is identified with the goodwill of the individual, so it will be, today I will, tomorrow I will not, today I can, tomorrow I can't, today I'm honored, and tomorrow I'm not. What is also worse is the fact that I will support by quoting Article 3rd paragraph 3 that recruits in the reserve are becoming soldiers on a voluntary service of military service with a weapon the day of entry into Serbia, when they become military figures. They cease to be military persons, either on a day of discharge or suspending the voluntary service of the military term. Now we have a situation and tradition that the army has always jumped first to help its people, especially when it comes to elementary disasters. Now a volunteer soldier comes in and says, "I won't help, I don't have any obligation, and this law allows me, I won't help anyone, I won't be ordered by anyone." You have a professional army, and when you get services from some professional, they charge themselves, Mr. Sutanovac. Then we have proof that everything the army does in the next period will be for commercial purposes or any kind of military task will be charged, because we have a professional army. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, know that the military has become a private company, a professional army where management will be the main and basic decision to fill the budget, both pockets and the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, and on that basis we will draw a conclusion where everyone will be nice. It's something that's a basic practice and an idea that you've been presenting all day today, advertising DS, but I'm only going to deny you with two facts. First of all, you claim to have a large number of pensioners, and that's why you didn't give them 11% more pensions to follow. Secondly, you're saying you didn't fire any officers, and I'm telling you that you fired and expelled those department chiefs, the sector and the management that you shut down, and one of those chiefs of the Department of Material Resources was in the rank of colonel. So any sector that was shut down was left without an officer who had to retire and had no option to activate differently. What's also very bad is that those who apply to serve under arms, and so far have not done so, because they have avoided a military obligation, can do so by chance for existential reasons, or for the reasons of lack and misery that the DS policy has led us to be soldiers and under arms, so that they have no chance of surviving, because you yourself have specified how many incomes they can be. We're going to come to an easy conclusion, which is that we're going to have a social and incompetent army that's going to be there for the task of securing existence. By the time you're done with voluntary soldiers who have three months of detention status, the question is, what kind of army is it going to be? It's funny to me, but unfortunately what's funny is also true. That's why a professional soldier doesn't have to do maximum damage in his work, break the contract, have no responsibility in relation to the contract, do any damages in the military or not, remains to be seen, but what we're going to do with the state, that's question number two. What you left as a message today is -- we won't be touched, we don't need an army, you're wrong, you didn't enter the NATO Pact to be so safe and safe, and we all know who the NATO Pact is guarding, it's going to end up in the mud and there's no dilemma. Mr. Sutanovac, don't live in an election campaign. Look at the reality. If you want to hire a youth like these colleagues, find them a better perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48015	Nine minutes and 30 seconds, the time of the parliamentary group has been used. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48016	I have to say, it was a pretty funny ending, but after all nine or ten minutes, I don't really know if you're for professionals or what? I get the impression you're not. I'd like you to know that a professional soldier has duties and obligations both officers and officers have while under contract, they have all obligations, if he deserts, to laws that apply in Serbia, both for officers and for sub-offices. Unless he wants to do something, of course, there are sanctions concerning military disciplinary authorities, but what's important is that everyone is obliged to comply with the law. The law that you have here in parliament, when I say you, I mean parliament, but not for you personally, I do not address any of you personally, voted and implies that the Serbian Army must be equipped, trained, to carry out three missions. The third mission is to help the civilian population in the situation of natural disasters. So this same soldier won't be able to say - no, I don't care, it's not my job, so he goes home if he has orders to help the civilian population. Don't have any doubt that his job will be that. Do you think someone, let me say, a man of adult male age or someone who was 18, is better at doing this job? It's something where we're going to agree, that simply a man who's older, it'll be easier to handle that job, if he's dressed and equipped, than someone who's here, because he didn't have a choice and that's actually the main thing in this whole law, and that's that we give Serbian citizens the choice. So whoever doesn't want to, they don't have to. The point is, in the modern and modern world, that no one makes us. Imagine what an army is like when you're driven by someone, and you have so many examples from the past. The other thing, I have to tell you, don't be angry, but you don't seem to know about the defense ministry's organization, or you know very little, the material resource sector is run by no captain or colonel. The Department of Material Resources is led by an assistant minister and he's been a civilian since I became a minister, so what you said is simply incompatible and someone's missupplied you or you didn't understand it very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48017	The word is from Ambassador Dejan Nikolic. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48018	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not difficult to speak after one of my fellow MPs' emissable speeches. A sentence that we have heard so many times, and even today in the congregation, is not an army that used to be and that's true. It's an irrefutable fact, it's not what it used to be, and today we're talking about a more modern, more efficient army, today we're talking about a professional army that strives to meet all modern challenges to the security of our country. I listened carefully to all my fellow MPs and their statements and heard criticisms that don't make much sense, especially because they contribute to that army that was a religion of some ancient times where the military played a broad social role, and even in establishing political relations. We must be aware of the moment and time we live in. Not today's biggest challenge is the one holding the finger on the red button. It's enough that you have information and you know it with the Internet, so you're making international relations more complicated to the point where one country is jeopardizing the security of another country. That's why we need to talk about a different army today. About an army that has an exclusively defensive and security role, which will be a more respectable factor than that army that was built on the principles of the 19th and 20th centuries. It extends the social role of the military – yes, but in economic terms. In the field, the ministry and the minister produced huge results. Within just three and a half years, the Serbian Army has become the main exporter of equipment and military weapons in Southeast Europe. It is a huge support for our support for young people who want to work for builders, engineers, designers who will find a catch in jobs provided by the Ministry of Defence and the minister himself. I served my army in a uniform in Nis, and I know it's very important that every soldier knows that the state thinks about him and about him. I also know that each and every officer knows that the military's battle will depend on the motivation of every soldier. You won't find a more motivated soldier than the one who volunteered, from a paid soldier who was trained by the best. You won't find a more motivated soldier than a modern professional soldier. And that is why today's proposal for a decision to abolish compulsory military service is of paramount importance. On the other hand, those who do not want to serve the military will have six months more in their lives to devote to their college, work or personal professional training, which will be seen in a socioeconomic sense, wider, and they will further accelerate the modernisation and professionalisation of the military. It's very important that the Department of Defense creates a chance and opportunity for young people to choose. I wish I could have chosen, but I didn't. Today, young people can choose, and that is why I am a minister and a ministry enjoy a huge reputation among young people and certainly a high rating. A reform that, I would say, is unconstitutionally initiated by the ministry goes well, but there's a big deal ahead of them. It's good to know we're not alone in this business. The ministry is co-operating with over 50 countries. Minister Sutanovac himself signed over 35 co-operation contracts. Our Army of Serbia today is a very important factor in peace-making international operations, and also in international relevant military circles today in our army is spoken with respect. That is why, Minister, my personal and full support of the ZES Parliament Club and for further efforts to bring our army into order of modern European and world armies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48019	Four minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48020	How much time do we have, Mrs. Comic? (President: 20 minutes. Thank you. Mrs. Comic, I don't want to talk about the epochal results of our military industry, because a few days ago some gunmen demonstrated something in front of the SDPR. That solves and convinces them of these really great epochal results. I don't want to make a joke at the expense of military priests, it's probably because of the post, because there's no money, because these professionals are going to eat a lot. I wouldn't even want to comment on the fact that there were more colonels than elders, you know, alone, it was about pay and work hours. I would not even like to remind you that the NATO Pact in Kosovo and Metohija is building special military units of an independent state of Kosovo. Those units should have about 2,500 soldiers and 800 reserves. That's what the NATO Pact says. I'm just quoting what the NATO Pact says. I haven't heard yet that the NATO Pact has heard that it's in some friendly relationship with Serbia, but many other things I've heard from NATO's pact over the past 20 years what's been on the territory of the former SFRY. Of course, I have no intention of commenting on what's called the Pancir affair, the Satellite affair, I don't. Although there's nothing I can say to Mr. Sutanovac, it's someone who used to do it before. What does he have to do with him? It's all DOS, since 2000, everything's been DOS. What else could I say? I couldn't even comment on Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's interview with his memory when he was in the army, because he was in charge of goats and then he learned to play guitar. His interview. Give him a warning, not to me. Of course, when such a multitude of different and rich biographies come into a situation that allegedly decides something, then I'm not surprised by what's going on. About 20 days ago, we had a chance to hear and that former US Ambassador Montgomery was promoting some of his books, and it doesn't matter that much, but it's very important that he's a co-owner at some private security agency, so it was a reason that researchers are looking for a little bit, and what they're seeing in the Agency for Business Registers, which, given some other records... (President: National MP, do not deny that you can bring into contact with former US Ambassador Montgomery and a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement, or a decision to suspend the military term of mandatory and working and material obligations, please do so in order to remain in respect of Rules of Procedure and Articles 106, item 1 of the agenda. It would be good if you just listened, Mrs. Comic. Why am I telling you all about the total number of these people? Because the minister said that about 36,000 people would work in the military. These researchers said that over 40,000 people work in private security and various agencies and have both guns and guns and handcuffs and satellite guidance, etc. I just wanted to make one parallel. Let him who understands these things... (President: Now please don't make parallels.) Why? (President: Between Serbia's Army and physical and technical security. I'm talking numbers. (President: Please do not insult the Serbian Army institution in this room. Who insults? (President: You can make parallels as much as you want in general, looking at the members of the law that is ahead of us, but I ask you to put as much respect in this room as the Army of Serbia has to, whatever any one of us in this room thinks. ) Mrs. Komic, you have a problem with facts, I'm not giving my grades. I'm just saying the naked facts the public knows, I haven't painted any facts with my own opinion. I'm drying out the facts. If that's forbidden, say so, then we'll talk in some other way. You have to give a special instruction to make it work in charity. You know, if someone says the Army ends their transformation and they're going to have a total of 36. 1,000 I want to put in the context of someone else who has about that number. Then some conclusions are drawn. Let each one draw some conclusion. Let's move on. You see, it's said that professionalization is something epochal, which started in 2003. I must immediately draw your attention to the fact that in this room, it seems to me at the end of 1992, the Financial Assistance Act was passed for the purpose of the material and technical transformation of JNA, or the SRJ Army. It seems to me that for 10 years it was a deadline and it seems to me that in each of the federal budgets there was a special item – material means for transformation, I may have mistaken the name. The purpose of the law was to train, transform the army in terms of arms and personnel to solve those issues of a large number of active military personnel and military pensioners. Look at "The Official Journal of the SRJ" and you will see, for years it has been, and if you don't believe me, here where Mrs Kolundžija sits, there were Micunović, Labus, Desimir Tosic, Ivan Vujačić and I don't order any further. One time he was even, I think, Perisic. Every year when the budget law was passed, appropriate additions were made and certain funds were put in place to improve the transformation of the army. One of the items in this programme, this law was brought on the basis of a single programme, was just that – professionalization. Since we're hearing here today about the professionalization of different interpretations, of course everyone paints it in their own way, the military has never been able to be seen as some institution that isn't made up of professionals. Well, it wasn't the shepherds who led the army or the armed forces, it was the professionals, the military faces, the people who had completed the academy and other schools. We are now talking about something that is professionalizing a common soldier, if I can bring it down to this common language of ours. Then we're faced with some dilemma, but I think the history of wars, technology and new achievements have answered that question. Our army has always been modern, I must tell you. It starts from that period when recruits had to say: hay, straw, because they didn't know the left, the right, because it was an army and an educational institution and an educational institution, which, unfortunately, someone didn't realize this morning and insulted a retired general who, in that sense, talked about the army as a very serious institution. Also, an institution that described people, so an institution that was the only springboard to get a driver's license and beyond. So you need to have respect when talking about something and you need to have a big respect, because history doesn't start today. People lived before us, and they had some knowledge. Of course, at a high-tech age, no one who goes to serve the army for two months can manage some navigational system or some new technology. The weapon has changed, everything has changed. That's gotta be followed. Professionalisation is necessary in this respect, but professionalisation also has countries that still have military obligations in their regulations. In that sense, we support professionalization. In these twenty years, we're constantly undermining some stage line, so we turn back a little bit, and then we see that the material assumptions for many wishes are gone. So these material assumptions disappeared in 1992, in 2000, in 2003, and I have to say in 2010. Material assumptions in terms of money above all else. Money for defense, money for the army, obviously no. There are no funds after 2000 when we opened up as a can, help came, businesses sold, all the best things done, and today it's determined that there's no money. Perhaps that knowledge today can better help some to understand that the money was not even in the time of sanctions, so it wasn't just the wrong policy because there was no money. Here, now we have the ideal policy, so there's no money. Probably those who in 1991 and 1992 publicly called for people not to respond to mobilization when they came into a situation to do new things over the armed forces, then no wonder that some things were happening to us. It's all about politics, that's what I have to tell you. In this sense, the SRS is defined to perfect and professionalise our armed forces. What are the dangers, problems and challenges, that I am not now using this new terminology? I'm absolutely not sure we're that safe. I think that these dangers always exist and I think that some defense systems, which are no longer defence systems, are already aggressive, are now changing their strategies, are now focusing on global climate change, nuclear energy proliferation, the desire to master energy throughout the globe, etc., not to get into those big stories. We in that great story are the smallest possible bolt. We need to be aware that we're not talking big things, that we're going to solve big partnerships. We can't solve these big partnerships. These are our problems, and I don't think this bill solves it. I'd like to draw your attention to the text of the motion for a decision and an explanation. This is contradictory. This member who was the basis for proposing this decision, Article 135, paragraph 4, is just saying that professionalisation must be completed in order to make this decision. In an explanation, it's just an expectation. According to some program, or strategic review, this could happen. Then it is said – 90% is expected to be completed by the end of this year. The member of the law says - when this is over, then the next step will come into force. So it's only when it's 100% over. But that's not the basic problem with this decision, the basic problem with our army is that there's no money and there's no money. That's the main reason. I think in today's debate we said our opposition to this kind of approach to NATO pact, because we don't see any reason why we're going to crash into that organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48021	12 minutes of MP time was used. Is the minister answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word, and after him is the National Messenger Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48022	Dear Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, as vice-president of the SPO and MP, I have the honour and pleasure to say that after 20 years of the SPO programme, today the support of the professionalisation of the military has been given to a three-quarter majority in the opposition. Namely, the SRS is for the professionalization of the military. Today we are not deciding to enter the NATO Pact. So they'll vote yes. The Serbian Progressive Party or Radicals number two are for partial professionalisation. It's a step forward. The LDP is for complete professionalization. One part of the DSS is for professionalization, the other part against, but it means one half again. That's three quarters plus the ruling majority. This is proof that this is the Ministry of Defence, with qualified and professional people, who have followed all that is happening in terms of modern military flows in the world, carried out detailed analyses of Serbia's military situation, applied standards of the world's most modern countries, and if all state institutions and all ministries did so, Serbia would today be an EU member, possibly NATO pact and a country with a great perspective. Of course, today was also the crash of two policies. One policy that defended the army of the 1990s, which was also dominated by patriotism, which also dominated officers' staff, patriots, professional and trained people, but whose soldier was fully politicised, and before October 5th, even in the service of state terrorism, because military resources were also used for the assassination of the then largest political opponent of the regime, Mr. Vuk Draskovic. A military helicopter was also used, and the airport was used in the Ships, the barracks in Tivt, and the false documents that were given to the terrorists at the time. What was that about? Well, there was no valid security assessment, first of all, the political summit. What I'm saying is, as someone who was a fierce opponent of the system back then, that even then security services, both military and civilian, at the time of the state and political summits pointed to security challenges, the weapons of Croats, Muslims and Shipara, every UCC unit that was founded, the training centres were identified, etc., but the political and state summit understood nothing and collapsed, and as a disastrous consequence of that policy we managed to unite the world and for the first time in the history of the world we were opposed to the greatest military force in the world, the NATO Pact. Is there a NATO pact wrong? Of course it is. How was the 1999 bombing? Against all international standards, international public law, and indeed because of that, the SPO, which it would do again, would be in the defence of the country and would once again be our position to defend the country in every situation. But what did Russian President Medvedev tell the MPs in this assembly, or Serbia? That Serbia should enter the collective security system. What the Department of Defense is doing is preparing for a collective security system. It is true that this National Assembly has brought in a document that was somehow a politicized document that does not have legal validity from the point of view of international law. A decision has been made on military neutrality. However, it is not recognised by international contracts and countries that are military neutral can only be recognised by international agreements as it requires. Now, the question arises -- will after the military's professionalization be the enlistment of an army in the spirit of Serbian tradition? The SPO, as the only right hand side, we think, of European Serbia, in this parliament, in the ruling majority, of course, is in love with the Serbian army, with the Serbian army's honorable tradition, but not with the farce of the 1990s, when the communist generals stood still in front of the red dukes and when we had the farce we had. It will be sent to the army, of course, who wants to serve a military term voluntarily, it will be enabled, but will recruits, who will be trained for several months under the current law, who is still in force, be able to meet the challenges of modern, informative and technological systems in the way professionals do it? I'm sure I can't. We have heard here the assessment that the security of the Republic of Serbia is well and dangerous. So all the documents we adopted in this National Assembly, a defence strategy, a security strategy based on relevant assessments, not only of the Ministry of Defence, but also of the countries in the region and the environment, suggest that Serbia is not at risk for its safety and that no conflict is expected in the first decade of the 21st century in this region, armed or war. Indeed today, with great pleasure, I listened to a highly qualified minister, who spoke to each one of them on a valid basis, based on a valid analysis. The guy's estimates that we need 100 or 200 thousand soldiers, etc., they're not true. For what? We didn't have time for armed conflicts in the '90s, power in both men and weapons. Was the security of the Republic of Serbia at the highest level with that advantage? It has just been at the lowest level in Serbia's history, because the wrong foreign policy was conducted, because the state summit understood nothing about the destruction of the Berlin Wall and the withdrawal of the then great Soviet Union from Eastern European countries, because it did not understand the era of the end of the Cold War, because it did not understand that large like the NATO Pact, the United States and the Russian Federation began to co-operate on the collective security system and against common risks, primarily terrorism. It is also good in the spirit of Serbian tradition that the religious service is returning to our army, opening doors for cadets who are preparing to take over future officers' roles. It is good that the defence university will also be established and it is certain that with a small number of soldiers Serbia will increase its security, which has been significantly increased from 2000 to 2010 compared to that of Serbia's darkest period of history. There have been a lot of words here today, and it seems to me that this discussion has dominated -- should Serbia be a member of the NATO Pact? The argument against him was that we were bombed 11 years ago. Gentlemen, for 500 years, the Turks have ruled this area. Who forgot to charge the stake, right on the wedding night, by the force of our young men into the Janitors? Does this mean that in the next 500 years because of such a history of relations with Turkey we should not co-operate with the current Turkey? Here the wrong people who do not know history called for traditional friendships and traditional enmity. The world in which we live is not safe and is not fair and there are no traditional friendships and traditional enmities, but there are greater interests, interests of Serbia, the economy, security, perspective, investment, and not emotions, saying that Serbia will one day be a NATO pact member. Does that mean we'll forget all our victims? No, I don't. In my family in all armed conflicts, as is likely in most families of MPs, in every war he suffered a few. Three grandfathers were shot in 1943 by the Germans. My great-grandfather died in World War I, so I don't keep counting. Do we need to lock ourselves up here in the National Assembly for the next 200 years and complain about unfair and unfair bombings? You don't have to. Is military neutrality, even though it's just a dead letter on paper, expensive? Yes, and everyone today has agreed that we don't have any money to obtain any basic techniques and military equipment. You know what military neutrality means? This means that we will finance the defence system ourselves, but that means returning to the political way of thinking in the 1990s, to a kind of autism, or not respecting the facts of the indisputables that are happening in the world. The indisputable facts are that both France and Germany, which have fought for 300 years today, are forming joint military units, that NATO is co-operating with the Russian Federation on many issues and that surely, if we are guided by argument and common sense, we will once be a NATO pact member, not because NATO would justify unfair bombings, but in order to do something good for Serbia. Where NATO's pact, where the EU is, there's stability, there's increased security, there's capital coming in, there's an open perspective for the country, and therefore in case, God forbid, someone attacks you, they'll defend you all. It's not much of a difference. It doesn't take much wisdom to realize that it was ideal for us to have new equipment as much as possible and as many soldiers, officers, officers, and that we were all in a system that would allow for a better and safer life. I just want to know how you think we're gonna do that. How do you plan on doing that with how much resources? So there are some means in the world that are meant to be, let's say for our system, with pensions up to 2.4% of the budget. Of the 2.4 budgets, it is set aside for the defence system, that the defence system is not devastated in the 1990s, as it is, that there are no debts towards pensioners, that there is no what happened, and that is a large number of retired officers and officers who have come from the former Yugoslavia, who are receiving pensions in Serbia, and may never have served in Serbia, simply requires time to resolve the issue. We have over 50,000 pensioners. We'll have 36,000 professionals. So, to a professional, a coma is a bit of a pensioner. There is no system in the world that can solve it. We've got 40 generals and brigades, that's a new act, so we've got more brigade generals and we've got almost 700 military pensioners of the generals. A good part of them, I say, have never served in Serbia. We pay about 2,000 pensions in Republika Srpska. That's why the bill is a little tricky because we have some things that we have to solve from the past and that we solve in walking. Today, a professional soldier costs little more, but within the same budget, which will arrive very quickly, and you will see that I have no increase in budgets because of professionalization. On the contrary, 2007, 2008 and 2009 there were more money than today, and then this job could have been done much better, better quality, but that it was also done in 2004, 2005, 2006. I'm sorry Mr. Krasic came out. It is true that there were certain documents in 1992, but no deadline was given according to these documents. We in Serbia begin something, not to talk about roads to Serbia, not to talk about railways, not to talk about things. An army professionalization project has been launched. When do we finish? Today in Serbia, we end something that started in 1992 and someone says you have a lot of courage, etc. Thank God we're working with courage because we're convinced we're doing the right thing. Today's discussions haven't changed our mind. They absolutely haven't changed our mind. The fact that there is no knowledge that there was a referendum in Switzerland about entering the UN does not matter. We had a debate today, too. What is impossible is to support a decision on the free choice of Serbian citizens and be at the same time for a semi-professional system. It can't. Either you're for a professional system or you're for a combination that exists now under mandatory military service. SNS, the idea that you have to go public and say that we support the combined would not have sympathy on both sides, and on the other hand, I have to tell you that the combined system implies what it is now, mandatory military service. So there wouldn't be any dilemma when we had a debate in the future political to say no, no, we were for professionalization. It's not the same. If you think you can do professionalization so that one part of the soldier comes on call, then that's what we have. We can announce the completion of the professionalization process tomorrow. I'm sorry Mr. Krasic left. We now have about 84% of our units. About 80% or 85. We're planning over 90% by the end of the year. We've completed this process. We end and have a professional army, and even if this decision is not made, we will have a small contingent of those who serve the army, because we do not feel that there is a need for anyone to send calls when we have an interest in volunteering. What's important is that you know, voluntary service will benefit from various benefits and benefits. Today we talked about enrolling their employment. I also think it's something that's very good in those three months. We'll see what amount of funds we need. We have some savings in the natural outflow of pensioners. It's a thing that happens naturally, so we might be able to transfer that money. We have savings on solving housing issues over a thousand people a year, and then we have savings on this so-called. UTS. There are various savings, but we generally try to do everything within the coordinates given, and that's the budget that exists. We never thought we'd do anything that was best in the world. On the contrary, we ask for guidance from you. I didn't hear the suggestion that you could help us be better than we are. I have heard various criticisms, but these criticisms have come down to whether my performance was good or not, whether I have fulfilled your expectations in addressing your MPs here who, by the way, have offended me occasionally, but that is now a matter of our relationship. I didn't throw anyone away when you were talking. I sit here all the time and listen carefully. I expected you to give some suggestions, say you love the army, that we did things that have not been done for many years, that the Serbian Army today has the highest trust of Serbian citizens, that it was not just a few years ago. I don't want to talk about the '90s. I didn't mention it to anyone today in the '90s. I didn't mention in the '90s or when we analyzed who goes into the army, who doesn't go to the military, how the president of the state who's the commander-in-chief, his son didn't go to the army from that time on, and that's the time we all call ourselves "a terrible tradition". The President of the Republic, and his son didn't join the army. I don't want to be the next person who didn't go into the army. The signator of the opposition parties' co-operation did not go to the military. A very important debater here today didn't go to the army. For all of this I have an understanding, you don't have to go to the army. That's why we're introducing you not to go into the army, but don't attack the army the way you do it. The military has to do with this so much that it's doing the tasks and it helps on scientific, technical and whatever the technical basis, to do something that's tradition, to say, in the modern world like we did in 1883. I'll stand up for the reputation of Bonaparte. Just a year or two before that we had, Mr. Todorovic said well, we had a French minister of defense. Our military academy was formed by Franjo Zah, right? Czech. We don't know how to co-operate with the West, even when a military academy was formed. Our kings had no problem hiring a foreigner to be the defence minister in Serbia, so the story of our traditional ties in the east is something that is currently less important. It's important that we try to do one thing in the given coordinates in which, believe me, we barely go through it. Why? There's no money. Why isn't there any money? Believe me, if we were to analyze now where all the money went and who made all the money trails I asked for the army and how much those trails cost us, from the stables to the toilets, that would be a very large analysis. At the same government as your party president, I asked for a million euros to help the First Partisan from Uzic get out of a hole that was down there, which was next to Užica and I didn't get it, it was meant for travellers around Cačka. Then when what happened happened, then the first one attacked me and said, "Why didn't you solve it?" Because you didn't let me handle it. All that, believe me, we know all that, but I'm not using it, there's no transmission at the moment, so it doesn't matter anymore. I don't use that argument because I don't think it matters. What's important is that today we want to propose something that's good. What's good is, I expect her to have support. I'm glad the radicals support, even though they don't even vote. It doesn't matter. What you're offering as a SNS, let's see if we can figure out what that is? No grandmother, no girlfriend. Half-pregnant. It can't be like that. It's either professional or it's an old system -- the '80s, the '90s, so you decide, but you have to be clear. Simply, Serbian citizens expect to hear your position as a party that claims to win power and change this law on professionalisation or support it now during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48023	The word has a message from Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48024	Mr. Minister, first of all, I wasn't talking about traditional relationships. I didn't say it at all, and I didn't use it. I was talking about tradition. So, just a definition of tradition, because it's been used a lot today, and I don't think many people knew what it was about or what it was about. Secondly, I didn't mention the word isolation at all. I was talking about a rhetoric, which you later demonstrated very convincingly. I just said some of the old ones that I technically noticed, who today didn't belong, not wanting in any word, if I'm wrong, remind me of what I offended the army or said something against the army? On the contrary, I have deep respect for the army. I have a son who was a soldier and I know very well what the army is in our people. My concept of exposure wasn't like that. I said one thing that makes sense. I don't know why you were called here. That bothered me. You said, and that's the logic itself, the pure logic, so, technique, expression of sentence, sentence -- the power of the army depends not on the number of weapons, but on the quality. You've really responded to that. So it's good when something is quality and numerous and that's better. Not only that, there's no need to replicate, that was it. I think I was very correct. So, I was talking about the rhetoric here today, and clearly there are two concepts and two views here. I asked you technically – if there is no interest and if there is maximum interest, are we able to answer that? So, not speaking against it, absolutely. There was no need for you to react that way, but thank you for bringing me some things you accused me of not knowing. I know how security agencies work and how much they've contributed to the fight against narcotics, etc. Everyone in Serbia knows that, and it's a lot of use, right at a time when other things happen, then drug dealers get out, and Serbia falls asleep with that information, both necessary and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48025	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48026	If you weren't from New Serbia, I'd think you'd be honest about this way of communication and conduct. I'm really trying to be polite, and if anyone in Serbia has a communication problem, it's just the president of your party. Try to advise him, we'll all find it easier. I didn't say what you said today – it's better and better quality. I said today that in the North-South War there were 600 soldiers per square mile, that the landing in Normandy was 400, and in Iraq there were three soldiers and those three soldiers were equipped and trained to neutralize these 600. That's the point. Believe me, now that we open that topic, do you really think that I, as defence minister, and Chief of General Staff, as well as the President of the Republic, would not want us to have 150 thousand soldiers and as many tanks and 250 planes? Of course we'd love to, but it just doesn't exist as a possibility. Not because we don't want to, but because there are certain standards in the world that are being fulfilled and that relate to both the numerous states of soldiers and the numerous states of tanks, weapons, etc. Every jump out of that system involves more military funding. Greater military funding would mean less in other budgets, for education, for health, for education, etc. In this budget, we tried to have a small, minimal, 2.15% this year, and in 2008, it was 2.4%, so we do very good savings and the system to move forward. It's been said here that the money is gone, that it used to be, but that the money wasn't there, etc. I agree with that, but I have to say that in the term of office of this government, we've increased wages, size order, about 40%, from a budget that's smaller than it was. How? By making big savings. How do we make savings? By not having as much energy as we had, we have no food costs, as well as the other various costs of a recruiting soldier who comes and goes, but now we form a serious army that doesn't cost us on this issue, and we invest the money in operational costs. The army is much more exercise than it has practiced, much more on the ground than it was, we don't have a problem in the land's security zone like it was in earlier years, filling 100% with the needs that are necessary. So wherever the problem is, the Army is now responding in a much more serious and better way. This wasn't just an answer to you, but I took the opportunity to say something I thought I'd say at the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48027	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. After that, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48028	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and People's Parliaments, above all, Mr Minister, since you have been generously giving lessons to the MPs today and teaching them various things, I am pleased that at the end of this productive day, I have had the opportunity for the MPs to teach you something. In fact, Mrs Djeric said at the beginning of her presentation that she would ask you several rhetorical questions. The rhetorical question is a question that does not require an answer, so that you could save your longer discussion for the end of today's work day. You, at the beginning of today, when you had the opening presentation, said a verse or a krill that was repeated during this discussion several times, which is a famous winged woman – the Serb is happy to go into the soldiers, which I personally am not too close to, but I admit that there are people who are and who sound very nice, but it seems to me that in certain periods and stages that our army has been going through, it was just as you have said - the winged one. At the time of the 90s, when young people were violently mobilized, when they were killed in wars that were fought because of somebody's dreams of great Serbia and the Memorial goals, then after the end of the wars, when young men and soldiers died in peace as well as in war, at that time when all young people or young people were trying to find different connections by sections, doctors, and in any way to avoid a military commitment, this winged woman was, unfortunately, everything was just not true. You have to be honest and say that no one can blame those young people for their behavior at the time. They did not want to answer the call of a state that remembered them only when they needed to be called to the army. In addition to the fact that military service was problematic and for another reason that, I am surprised, today did not deserve much attention from the MPs, it is an economic and financial aspect, because many young people and financially and economically were troubled to go to regular military service, especially those who had their families to feed. This has been problematic for many other reasons. First of all, until recently, it was an army where conditions were far below those worthy of human beings, an army that was deeply compromised by its relationship to war crimes, to Hague refugees, to people who were accused of genocide and the worst crimes against humanity, an army which, unfortunately, too many times proved to have its secrets that were stronger than any truth. We have heard a lot of big words about tradition, about patriotism, about how to become a man by going to the military. We have heard that many MPs regret that their children will not be able to drive all their forces into the army, because they probably won't be the same denseness if the child voluntarily goes to do so. Unfortunately, I don't think a man becomes an army but a relationship to life and the fact that from this army like us, hopefully, to change and create a new army, a young man who went into it could learn nothing or at least nothing useful. Anyway, he couldn't see anything nice there. He could see an army that wasn't prepared in any way to respond to the challenges the world puts before her and modern society. He could see an army where the conditions of training, residence and life were below all levels. He could see an army that didn't have the strength to deal with numerous internal problems, affairs that upset it and did not have the strength to give young people the answers to those questions they had to provide. I see this decision today as a chance to make it right. An opportunity to create an army that will be able to deal with all these problems. An opportunity to create an army that will be different. After all, as an army that would function in a different country than that country that sent its children to die in wars they allegedly never fought. To all of us who are here, to all of us who are going to vote for this decision is not to drop that opportunity and do all of this. I'll remind you, although you mentioned it here today, but the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina reminds us every year, that we still don't have the answers to the question of who killed the two guards on Topcider? We don't know why it happened? What is the truth about this event? Who will give answers to their families and who will tell the truth? Is it possible to get an exact answer to the question of how many soldiers of the Yugoslav People's Army from Serbia died in the wars of the 1990s? Furthermore, what about the compensation of the income gap Serbia is due to pay former General JNA to Vlad Trifunovic, who saved 250 soldiers and was convicted of it and who still did not receive compensation? Who's gonna take care of it? Who's going to make sure that he gets those benefits, that he's compensated? This is really an opportunity today to create conditions for these things never to happen again. This is today a chance to create conditions for all these answers to be given and the responsibility is shared. The responsibility is not only with the Ministry of Defense, it is with all of us who are going to complete this military reform together and bring an end. This is an opportunity that we must not miss, and in that sense it is historic. The decision to abolish the mandatory service of the Social Democratic League League sees Vojvodina as a kind of personal success, because it is a triumph of the policy that the Social Democrats League has seen for 20 years. We first organized anti-war protests in Vojvodina, always and constantly against war, no matter what, we collected signatures to object to conscience and advocated the professionalization of the military. We are confident that this decision that we will adopt in a way that we will create an army that will be organized according to the most modern standards, which will be modern and which, most importantly, will be ready to respond to the challenges facing it. All MPs of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will vote in favour of all draft laws and decisions and we will do so very proudly. Likewise, as we know that all of our MPs will vote for these proposals, we know that those who today oppose it, those who today spoke against the completion of this reform, will have the opportunity to see an army that will be more modern, more efficient and proud than this one is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48029	Eight minutes and 10 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48030	In my opening statement, I said that the standing army is experiencing its peak in World War I, when the wings "work Serbian goes into soldiers", and later I said that at that time and the winged "loving to go Serb into soldiers" won the sequel "three beats him and two wolves". I didn't say that, because I don't think it's very appropriate, but here, you know what the sequel is. In the 1990s, we have an erosion of military service, so that you don't experience the "work of a Serb goes into soldiers" as some tradition of your own, and I believe in your generation may not, in my generation it worked happily in the military. I'm older, but it's no big deal. The answer to the second question will be given in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48031	The People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Petar Jojic, and after him, the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević, who is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, since I see that it is important, let me say that I have served the army, I am a participant in the war at the time of the bombing, I have served in Croatia, in the Wildlife, the PSC and I can say, based on what I saw there, and in this war, I have realized that even then the states or armies that apply the doctrine of the armed people are nonsense and that there is nothing of it. After four or five years, of course, JNA showed that the tiger of paper had fallen apart very quickly. In January, it will be 20 years as I deal with politics. Since then, I have and publicly said that Serbia needs a professional army and I think Serbia needs a professional army. There are countless examples in the history of how much better it is to have a good professional army, since the formation of a minority civilization and a well-trained soldier, an experienced and professional one, than an armed bunch of people. I can tell you a few examples. For example, Hannibal had been harassing the Apeninian Peninsula and the Roman Empire for years and defeated several armies that Rome had prepared in a row just because he had an experienced army and well - equipped. What to say about Leonidas and 300 Spartans who opposed some estimates of over 200,000 Persians in one field for three days. Or Alexander of Macedonia who, with a seven-time smaller army, defeated the Persian Empire, but he had soldiers who were experienced, from 10 to 30 years of war and much better armed than what the Persian emperor had, who thus gathered the tribes and sent the jumbles upon them and of course lost his empire afterwards. What to say about Sparta as the first state to have an organized professional army, men who were just soldiers and nothing but a second and six years on their soil is, therefore, let's say, recordmen, no one has been able to cross the border of Sparta for 600 years, let alone lead some conflict on their territory with them. However, few of this euphoria was shown by the ruling majority MPs and made me answer the phone. Yes, gentlemen, but this is not a complete reform, this is just the beginning of the reform. So we have to move on. There aren't many answers here. For example, I've read somewhere, I don't know if it's true, the minister might know it, that a professional soldier on average today costs six times more than usual, but that means he has to be well-armed, that he has to be well-trained, that he's well-dressed, that he has to have it all. This is what this Serbian professional army is not and it has to continue to be done, and with this economy and this way and with what is set aside for the military budget, we are hardly going to get to that anytime soon, I am not one to say that we will not, of course we have to. That's why that euphoria is a little out of place. On the other hand, I also need, for me, what is wrong, at least now in the promotion of this reform, the minister may agree or not, but I am making a proposal to promote the professional army, but it is not promoted and not advertised this voluntary part, or at least it is not spoken of, a voluntary possibility of serving a military deadline. Let's make today change that, for example, that's my suggestion. You said it yourself – maybe a job internship. There's got to be some stimulation. So, the internship is yes, but I don't agree with you that the military should be accounted for, why can't we law-abiding? Give me a bill of law and we'll just sign up for a job internship. Why does it have to be charged now in retirement for three, six months, a year, as predicted? As a state, we can make a decision. The military needs help. It's enough just to motivate these people, so those who want to serve the army can not lose anything by going to serve the army, so the job internship is in the book, stamp, sign, and that's known. Why does it have to be paid? I think it's the legal way to do it. Second, we need to promote the voluntary service of the army because we may need it. The collective security, it is spoken of by the President of Russia, the President of the Government of Russia, and I think that we should advocate from Lisbon to Vladivostok, and certainly not NATO, that's something we don't need right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48033	National MP Petar Jojic has a word, and after him, MP Srdjan Milivojevic and he is the last registered speaker on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48034	Listen to this discussion today, and in some circles, I see that the word patriotism has led to absurdity and shame, that even some party leaders are laughing and throwing that word out to vulgarity today. Mr Minister, the proposal of Article 7 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations provides that the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, may shorten the duration of military service. I'm worried about this because this isn't a constitutional category. Namely, read Article 112. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, read Article 17. The Law on the Army of the Republic of Serbia. It's come out of the box and I'm worried about this. Now the President of the Republic is Mr. Boris Tadic, but I am concerned that someone else who can cut the military deadline and endanger the security of the Republic of Serbia will come. Mr. Minister, as far as this decision on volunteering is concerned, I believe that persons who volunteer to serve a military term with weapons also belong to benefits, stimulation under this law and count, first - time spent in the service of a military term under arms, is considered to be an increased service, well-fused, plus four months in a year. I think this needs to be settled by law. Mr. Minister, we also heard historical sighting today. NATO members never helped Serbia in any war where they had no interest, starting with Emperor Dusan, through the Thessaloniki Front, until World War II. Serbs have always turned naive in friendly relations, the war alliance against each opponent, where Serbs were the biggest victims they had ever suffered. We had bigger losses in relations with NATO members, and NATO's leading pact countries, the current members were villains to Serbia and Serbs. In the last 90's wars, US retired generals, plan makers and perpetrators of the "Storms" against Serbs in Croatia, bombarding everything that is Serbian, Bosnia and Herzegovina, bombed Serbia and made huge sacrifices and damages and brought it back 50 years. They have occupied Serbian territories, now KIM, occupied the Serb people in BiH, and wants to abolish the Republika Srpska and to join the Muslim-Croatian Federation, hand over Serbian territories to the Croats and the whole of NATO helps Croats to implement the third position of the Ustasha Pavelic politics, and Pavelic's policy was towards the Serbs: one-third should be killed, one-third should be cataclysed, one-third displaced. It is now being implemented by Croatia under the auspices of the NATO Pact, America, Germany, England and others who support Croatia to enter the NATO Pact and the EU to strengthen Serbia's account. I ask the question what does Serbia get if we join NATO? If we join NATO, Mr. Minister, Serbia will lose everything, and its opponents will receive everything and we don't need such a society, because it hurts more than it benefits. This is said by an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, other categories, technically, our armed forces, are by no means compatible with the technical and logistical weapons of the NATO Pact. Our entire NATO pact couldn't remount three fighter planes, but we had to send them to Russia. About two or three months ago, the whole world is familiar, so we, too, have had to try our operations to run Russian anti-aircraft missiles in Bulgaria, on their own polygon, as much information as I have. If that's the case, you know better. Mr. Minister, I've had two hours to speak here, but because of the time left at my disposal, because my colleagues talked about it in detail today, I have to remind you that in wars war is won with three things, that's what the famous generals of France said. The war is won by money, money and money. What's our army up to? Mr. Minister, what are you going to do to improve the material position of our army? Why are such properties, Mr. Minister, at the disposal of the Serbian Army? Mr. Minister, the Serbian Army has huge properties, and these properties should be freed, which do not need the military, improve the material position of the military, tens of thousands of soldiers and reservers and officers have no settled housing issue. It has to be done as soon as possible, selling properties that don't even provide for the military, and they're empty, no one uses them. Therefore, I agree that the Serbian Army must first of all be provided materially, it must be technical and you must understand that by this number of 10,000, Serbia will not be able to defend itself, even if a Kosovo Corps attacks us, and therefore our army must be stronger and numerical. I disagree with you, as far as three well-trained professional soldiers can do better than 600 other untrained, or non-professional soldiers. I would agree with you on one condition only, if these three were armed, and those 600 aren't. The Serbian Radical Party, you heard from our MPs of previous speakers, is not against the professionalization of the military, and we want our army to be strong, to defend the state, but not to meet every society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48035	The word is from Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48036	Dear Mr. Minister, honorary officers and the proud Army of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, but above all, the citizens of Serbia, here in this small hour to recapture everything we've heard, and we've heard a lot today. First, let's start with tradition. Interestingly, the remaining colleagues in the hall, this concept of our tradition, as anyone who sees Serbian history and Serbian traditions. Tradition is by some only what suits us at this time, which corresponds to the political party and the political idea. When it comes to tradition in such a way that there is no knowledge of Serbian history, military history and the creation of the Serbian Army. Some are looking for a tradition at Obrenovic, other historical roots are looking for Karadzic, forgetting that the country of Serbia had its own history before and before Karadzic, especially before their entry into the country's political life and the establishment of their political party. Now they're looking for similar political parties through history that may have had a similar name, to make continuance with these political ideas, and there's only one grotesque, not to say, humorous of a very serious topic. Is there even a city in Serbia that is tied to more bandages than the town of Kruševec? Not because we were a city related to the 1389th and the Kosovo struggle, we had an army before, but to remind you that when we listened to the history of the Serbian army, it was forgotten that Serbia was involved in wars and pre Germany, and during the first Serbian uprising and the Second Serbian uprising, so much was forgotten. I'll cut my exposure short and I won't have any other representatives of the opposition, and there are few of them, reminding me that when we talk about tradition, they don't know that tradition. He says I'm talking about the law. This is all about the law. I want to reminisce through one section of the invitation to tradition of a Kruševinar, the despot of Stefan Lazarevic. The despot Stefan Lazarevic was known and canonized on the 500th anniversary of his death in 1927, and he was forced to be in the vassal army with his father's murderer, at Sultan Bajazit, to fight for his interest with Serbian knights, to impress Mongols in the battle of Angola with courage, to then join the vassal relationship with King Zigmund of Bulgaria and today he would probably be called a foreign payer by those who interpret Serbian tradition in this way, having the need to have at one historic moment under certain historical circumstances Serbia's election for its survival. On the other hand, when we talk about the despot Stefan Lazarevic, I will only remind him that he personally received that title from the Byzantine rulers, and it is right below the emperor's. In his biography, he enrolled in several wars by Turks, in several battles and battles on the side of the Hungarian crown, and eventually fought and fought to keep Serbia alive after Kosovo's defeat. What to say about not knowing the fact that Serbia's first military minister was French, that in 1861 we received a Monden as army minister. What to say is that because we didn't know the facts, because of the Standing Army Act of January 1883, we had a Timocha rebellion. So, the moment we replaced the professional mercenaries' army with our traditional army, because for us tradition only began in 1883, Serbia entered into a mutual account, because it felt that the standing army was something bad, and that the professional army was something good, right, honest. Now we've got 100 years and a few years of this dilemma again -- is it good to get the professional army back, not standing? We now call only on Serbian tradition, and this tradition of ours begins in 1883. All I was saying now is, ladies and gentlemen, negligiblely, it doesn't matter, it didn't happen in history, because it fits certain political options. In 1867, a Law on the admission of foreign officers to the Army of Serbia was passed, because who acted as the basis of the Serbian Army officers. The first provisions of the standing army we received in Serbia during Milos Obrenovic in 1827 and these were Russians after the nuclear peace. I can talk about many traditions now, but there are no representatives of the opposition. I'll cut my exposure short. I must really comment, no one who advocates traditional values in this room has ever heard the praise of being introduced by military priests, I congratulate you on that, Mr. Sutanovac, I am an Orthodox Christian, I belong to the spiritual brotherhood of St. George, it's a temple in Krushevec. I'm really very happy and proud that this DS is responsible for finally having military priests. Finally, speaking of Kruševec, let me thank you as a Kruševljan that you, as Dragan Sutanovac, brought $1.2 billion to this country through the promotion of the country's military industry. When Serbian citizens hear that a military factory works in Serbia, know that it is the merit of Mr. Dragan Sutanovac. When you go to work and it will work, Mr. Jojic, when you go to work and get paid, you know that someone with their personal authority made sure that this factory works, whether it's "Freedom" in Čačka, whether it's "Cruik" in Valjev or "14 October" in Kruševec. I haven't heard a word of praise about it. I haven't heard a word of praise about the moment when Serbia seeks out pension money, wages, someone says, it's a reformed army, it's a reformed military industry, we can be proud of it. I will conclude my exposure with the fact that not long ago we had an army as an institution that experienced the least trust of the citizens of this country. Today, with the Serbian Orthodox Church, the institution that the largest number of citizens of this country trusts, because if someone thinks it happened overnight, the magic wand, the hocus-pocus preparations, it happened by day and night, by passing these laws, by returning to see the army in the world, by international engagement of our army in international peace missions, by participating in where these boys illuminated the face of Serbia and showing what it is and what it should look like as a Serb soldier in the 21st century. This law allows us to have these soldiers who will once again celebrate Serbia's country, not only in Serbia but throughout the world, exclusively in peacekeeping missions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48037	Seven minutes and 40 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48038	I thank all those who have endured this day and have stayed to the end in the congregation. I'd like to finish my address just some questions to all of you, I suppose they know the answer. We have been in front of the Federal Assembly, the current House of the National Assembly, for several years now, doing a ceremony to promote new supporters. I had a chance to read in the media as you say in accordance with the old Serbian tradition. Let me tell you right now, that's what we made up, and it never was. It's a tradition we're making now. And he wasn't the only one who was smart, because there are smart people who live today who are going to create some new tradition today that will be for future generations to be proud of too. We've had a military-medical college for two years. In 50 years, there will probably be a debate here, so someone will say – we traditionally have a military-medical college, even though we have made it now. In 100 years, someone will say that Serbia has a professional army. It'll be a tradition. What we're doing today in the area of defense, the defence university, which we're going to form, the control of our agencies, all of these are the first steps, unfortunately we're a few decades behind, but we're catching up slowly and in front of some of us fast, we're behind some of us, let's say, slower. All that matters is that all you know is that we're fully convinced that we're doing the right thing. Whether they're at the pace we'd like them to be, not always, but we don't have a dilemma that we're neither the best, nor the worst, but there's room for us to be even better. Believe me, you can be proud of what's going on at the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, and that's really, what someone here said today, an absolute other army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-02-0.u48039	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or of someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) Since no one has signed up, I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search. I thank you all for your work today's session. For today, we finish our work, which we continue on Tuesday, December 7th, at 10:00 p.m. At 10.00 hours of course, the first part of the session, after opening, will work on the basis of Article 286, and then on the agenda, while, as you are informed, the afternoon will be a special session, or session with the current topic. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly, I ask all MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I ask the MPs to see if the verification is in the MP's card unit. Yes, it is. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that Tuesday and Thursday, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, the session of the National Assembly shall take place on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials and from the authority of the authorities at which they are headed. The President-in-Office, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise this right under Rule 1 of Article 286 at a session of the National Assembly orally, in a single address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic.
