ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40710	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is a question for all of us, but for a large part of the world is – how do you get out of the crisis? In Serbia, we agree that we need to make a change in the economic structure, but we also agree that it is one of the export chances for Serbia's development and tourism. The precondition for both is good infrastructure, because without good roads, bridges, but also infrastructure has no tourism at all, but there is no development of Serbia. Today, Minister Milosavljevic presented data in an interview that annually, only during several summer months, millions of transit tourists pass through Serbia. As government minister, he warned the government that the problem Serbia will face this year will be a very high price of fuel and that a large number of tourists will pour fuel into their cars before Serbia and only after leaving Serbia. The price of fuel at this point is the highest in the region. Minister Milosavljevic estimates it is at least a dozen dinars more than it is in countries in the region. The second problem Serbia faces is very high toll prices. If you start from Austria, Germany or Western Europe towards Serbia, toll through Austria costs eight euros in ten days, for all highways, toll through Hungary costs seven euros for four days, for all Hungarian highways, and tolls for only one pass from Belgrade, i.e. from Horgos to Nis cost 12.5 euros. I'm sure that's not how we're gonna attract tourists. The problem for the realisation of infrastructure is of course the funds, but these toll and these transit tourists on the one hand go to Serbia's budget, and on the other they go directly to the budget of "The Way of Serbia". Serbia's assembly, among the many laws it has passed, has passed a number of laws ratifying loans amounting to over a billion and a half euros, which are intended for roads. When it comes to the few works carried out on infrastructure facilities or on roads, or the work is late or the work has not started and there are serious problems. Why aren't we working on our paths? If we think we have the best construction firms, if our colleges are among the best in the world, if financial resources are provided, then what is the key problem at this point, so the work is delayed or the work is gone? Look what's going on on the Beška Bridge, what's going on on the Gazela Bridge, what's going on on the other highways. Is the problem with the human factor, is the problem with the bad system that makes it all work or is the problem with the combination of human factor and system? Government ministers accuse "Serbia's Ways". The director of "The Way of Serbia" says they have done everything right. There is a serious delay in granting building permits. The result of all this is that the loans stand, that we pay interest for them, that we have a problem with bad infrastructure, that we all feel the consequences of it, that we absolutely don't know what it is to get out of the crisis. In order for the patient to be cured, a diagnosis should be made. I ask Minister Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure – what, in the ministry's view, is the key problem that does not begin, because of which late works on the infrastructure in Serbia, although funds have been provided and for whom only 50km of Corridor was done last year, although funds have been provided for the completion of the entire corridor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40711	Would any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to request a notice? Yeah. ) Mr. Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40712	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I use this time to ask three questions. The first question is that the municipalities of Sombor, Kula and Vrbas have launched a joint initiative to build a road route from Vrbasa via Kula, Sombor and Bezdan, which should be more quality infrastructure to connect our country with Croatia. This would significantly shorten the way to Croatia's coast and BiH, the region's most important foreign trade partner. Given that this direction is also the closest road to the EU, that Hungary is long ago in the EU, that Croatia will be soon, it is too much to say how much strengthening the road network would be important for this region and beyond. As public insight into the draft spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia by the end of May, which unfortunately is not scheduled for the construction of this route, I think now is the last moment to change the decisions that have led to several years, I can say the decades-long marginalisation of this region, which could very easily become a locomotive on the way to the EU. My second question concerns the city of Novi Sad. Representatives of the New Sad Assembly's parliamentary groups did not receive a response from the government of the Republic of Serbia after six months on the request for exemption from the privatisation process and the city's management of DP Gas. It's like the case of the Newsad Fair. The fact that almost all the committee groups, except for one, signed this initiative is in favour of the fact that it is no longer a political matter, but a clear attitude of the citizens of Novi Sad. The interest of the citizens of the largest Vojvodina city is to determine exactly how gas distribution was done in Novi Sad. This is what I am saying, and the initiative itself has been launched in this sense, because there are serious indications, which have been shown before, especially by DS and SPO members, that there have been a lot of illogicalness and irregularities in the business of the company and that such business policy, unfortunately, has been beaten over the back of individual gas consumers. My third question is also an application from the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to assist as much as possible in solving the case of 500 former workers of the Bosilegrad profit centre, who are members of the holding company Jumko from Vranja, who have a strong verdict to pay them 17 wars from 2002 and 2003. Despite the judicial verdict, these people didn't win any of these wars. None of these wars have been paid. I know this case isn't lonely, it's a lot of cases like this, but if we all stand for even regional development, then it's quite certain that these cases must be our priority, because it's one of the poorest municipalities, especially considering the devastating fact that even 95% of these people I'm talking about today are unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40713	Thank you. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, let me inform you that part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of National Assembly will be followed by a group of students of the 34th class of the Military High School in Belgrade with elders and subordinates, including: Ranko Andrić, Nikola Vasiljevic, Uros Drmanović, Branislav Dimitrijevic, Pavle Dugalić, Nikola Djokić, Miodrag Ivković, Stefan Jovanovic, Andrijan Karas, Janoš Kardoš, Miloš Krtinić, Stefan Lazarevic, Vladimir Marić, Djordjelja Matić, Stefan Miljković, Dejan Miljević, Ilja Milajlović, Andrija Miladinović, Andrija Markavić, Dejan Mirić, Jovan Naždinić, Milan Samopjan, Bojan Matjan Matjanović, Slavan Šović, Slavan Milić, Slavić, Ivanožarović, Priščić, Ivanažar, Ivanoč, Prišč, Prišč, Prišković, Prišković, Prišč. Miljana Zivkovic, Lieutenant Colonel Dragan Jovanovic and Lieutenant Marko Marjanovic. Let's welcome our dear and esteemed guests. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40714	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the government what they're going to do about this case involving General Krstic, with all the convicts convicted by the UN tribunal? Because this case shows in the most drastic way the relationship between the authorities of the states in which the convicts endure sentences, especially given the fact that General Krstic warned in December of the threats coming to him and the possibility that the attack would be carried out on him. He was visited in prison and representatives of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and he repeated all these things to them and foreshadowed them. Unfortunately, it had no effect and General Krstic in prison literally tried to cross over. What is particularly indicative is the relationship between some representatives of our government, such as our embassy in London, which says General Krstic was attacked by a blunt object. If you look at the British media report, you'll see that they there clearly say that he was attacked by a sharp object, that he was lying in a pool of blood and that they thought he was dead. It is really inadmissible for a man who has been convicted to endure a sentence, which is disabled, to be left to the mercy of some other convicts without our country responding. It's particularly interesting, and if that's true, it should be determined, given that he is disabled, that General Krstic's prison authorities, based on his daughter's statement, did not allow him to use prosthetics. I ask the question - what kind of state did we send a man to serve a punishment? What kind of barbarism is that? Those who boast of democracy, human rights and freedoms do not allow a disabled person to use prosthetics! That's how they made it easier for those who tried to kill him to perform the act. That's just inadmissible. The foreign ministry, the Department of Justice, has to react to this. Not only now for General Krstic, but for all our prisoners; they should serve prison sentences in Serbia, because this is unacceptable. Should we wait for a case like this to happen again to react? Especially interesting is the so-called reaction. NGOs in Serbia. Did one of the only NGOs come forward? It's not. How's that? When it comes to any problem related to any member of the national minority or anything else that is turned or not in the interests of the Serbs, we cannot remain alive. But no one pays for it, they only pay for it when it comes to attacking Serbs, then they're there without a problem. We can't stay alive from them. In this case, absolutely no one's answering. It is particularly interesting to write some of our media, i.e. reporting electronic media. The apparent attempted brutal murder they qualify as a fight, causing blunt force injuries, etc. What does that look like? Aren't you at least able to objectively and truthfully convey what happened? Are we really a state where we absolutely have no rights when it comes to the rights of Serbs and when it comes to the problems that Serbs face, not only in Serbia, but in such cases as General Krstic? I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, of the foreign ministry, of the justice ministry to inform us most urgently what they have done on the matter of General Krstic and what they will do on the issue of all convicts by The Hague tribunal, to maintain a prison sentence in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40715	Thank you. I would like to inform you, MPs, that they have been prevented from attending MPs Nikola Lazic, Djordje Milicevic, Dejan Radenkovic, Sinisa Stamenkovic and Donka Banovic. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on State Audition of the Institution (Resume in principle) The word has a National MP Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40716	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, the SRS, for five years since the DRI Law was passed, has been pointing to an institutional framework that is too tight, as far as these most significant financial institutions and control institutions in the Republic of Serbia are concerned. For five years, the government has not taken all the activities and measures to establish and obtain the institutional framework necessary for the independence of this institution. When we talk about independence, it must have full legal, financial, political and general independence, which excludes arbitration, politics and financial influence of certain financial circles, which in any case want to place not only this institution but also all other control financial institutions. When we talk about the State Audit Institute, we have to go back to the 12th month last year, when she filed her first report. It is good that she submitted the report, however, the current government and the media created such a name – we finally received the first report, we began to boast, etc. But what did we get in the report? We've received some information on violations, economic crimes and possible criminal acts by the state institutions controlled by this state institution. A fama was created – here, all that the state institutions of control have missed now has been established by the State Auditing Institution, no more illegality, no more failures, no more non-intentional use, now all the anomalies that were present in society have been removed. When you look a little bit better at this report, you see a lot of gaps. One colourful lie, which has been laid upon us. We must also point out that the Serbian Radical Party has for years indicated that this state institution cannot fulfill the role it has played in society. Why can't he? Because the entire system of state financial control is not in operation, from the tiniest pores, from local self-government, budget inspections and other inspections in local self-government, to this National Assembly. Why isn't the state control system responding? Because it doesn't fit the current government. It's a general finding. And why isn't he responding to the current government? Because it's a wide field if there's no control. The Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly in the assembly, and through parliamentary issues, pointed to the failures and criminal actions of individuals in the current government. What was feedback? They covered it all up, and in response to the parliamentary questions, we received distorted answers. The bottom line is that this assembly and MPs, as well as the public, must receive full and clear information about every crime scene. The competent national inspection services and judicial services shall be subject to all identified deficiencies and problems encountered during the controls. When we talk about the State Auditing Institution, we must point to its scope and its jurisdiction. The state audit institution does not have those competences created in public. It doesn't, and it can't. Eight state auditors cannot replace a whole state system that is aimed at controlling and detecting all negative phenomena. The State Auditing Institution has shown us certain shortcomings in public procurement. Let this example serve us, which I will point out, which is a statement by the ambassador of Great Britain, who in one of his numerous interviews in the media in Serbia said the following, noting and making a recommendation to the state control authorities that they are not controlling enough and that through public procurement in 2009 it is "washed" (he did not say so, but that I translate it into the national language) 600,000 euros; of the four billion euros, which go through public procurement, what is carried out through the tender by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, 15% has gone, i.e. non-purposely used. That's what the ambassador of the foreign state tells us and points to the lack of system. This way is not appropriate. This is not the task of foreign ambassadors, but since their position is such that they can warn us in this way and give us certain recommendations, instructions, but also orders... On the other hand, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, following these appeals and following numerous appeals from the SRS and other opposition parties, in terms of non-intentional and illegal use of state authorities, are doing nothing. What is done, if the true fact presented by the English ambassador, is that 600,000 euros were unintendedly used, what are the consequences of those who have not purposely spent the funds? What is the state body that has determined exactly on specific cases where the law has been broken, and where has it been purposelessly used? None of these economic crimes and other offences were observed. Where are these sanctions and what are the sanctions? The sanctions, according to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, are very small. Here, we have a dozen misdemeanors sent against the ministers and they will be responsible for the violations committed. The highest fine is 50,000. The ministries transfer billions of dinars over their accounts over the year, hundreds of millions of euros and will account for failures with a minimum fine of 50,000 dinars. Inadequate criminal policy. That's why we've got these leaks. For years, it has been suggested that there is inadequate financial control and that the system of sanctioning violations is inadequate. We don't have adequate fines. It's all worth nothing, the current government doesn't do anything to remove these anomalies. Let me just get back to the State Auditing Institution a little bit more. For five years it has not been set up as it should and as it is practice in other countries. First, there was a problem with the business space. After that, there was a problem with the equipment. We are now harmonising and agreeing with this law (conceive, negotiate, even the representatives of the authorities here have presented such facts) the level of earnings with the State Auditing Institution and the State Auditors. That's inappropriate. Simply, the state authorities cannot be in a position to determine their profits. Profits must be regulated at the level of all state authorities. The remuneration, or salary, of civil servants must be uniform. In the system of rewarding state workers today, we have several laws that regulate this area. That's why we have these problems. But it's obvious that the current government responds to a situation like this, that she can reward one, that others will be punished, etc. Then what do we have in practice? We have workers who aren't interested in working. Why haven't we filled out the systematic jobs in this state institution so far? Because it's a small fee. No one, highly educated today, with such a low income, will enter this business because there are at least 30, 50 or 100% higher incomes in a private institution or private company. Why didn't the current government do it five years ago when she passed the Law? Why didn't she do it a year ago? You're aware of the fact that he can't get highly qualified personnel, but you're not doing anything. Here, these 25 million, as you've predicted with these amendments and additions to the law, you're going to focus on rewarding these workers. Why hasn't it been done before? It's obvious that this is about systemic problems and that the current government is doing nothing to remove them. But we need to point out here a few anomalies that we have in practice, as regards internal and external audits. We received the draft budget from the Ministry of Finance information on what internal control is doing at the Ministry and other state institutions. Two-thirds of state institutions do not have an internal audit, regardless of what is the obligation under the provisions of the law. Who was responsible for that? Nobody. Let's see at the external audit. We have put an external audit in the context of commercial approach – we choose the most favourable and cheapest, or audit institution that will be our most acceptable, which will not notice the failures we have made in the work. What happens next? We get a positive opinion from the review and then we close all our failures, all our violations and all the crime we've committed in the business of the current year. Where's the state control? This disenfranchised and unsuspecting state control can't have a positive result. The Serbian Radical Party has warned you for years, without adequate state control, there are no quality state institutions. The European Commission's representatives told you the same thing when they recommended that this state institution be put in an operational state, so that it could effectively control the state finance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40717	Thank you. National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40718	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the best review of the development of one society and its functioning should be a debate held in parliament, primarily on the budget and way of spending all taxpayers' money. What is not good is the fact that such an important function of parliament as the Supreme Legislative Institution has so far, for the truth, had no significant role to play. Today we are witnessing that several years since the formal establishment of the State Auditing Institution, this partial report on the State Final Account has come out on a light day. What the public paid the most attention to in the past period, and what should certainly occupy the most attention of our MPs, is the fact that what could actually be seen in that report is a good indicator of the presence of the authorities, since part of the results shows irresponsibility, indemnity and non-compliance of the law by those authorities and ministers who have been chosen to enforce these same laws. To the truth, it should be recalled that the budget audit refers to the previous year and that it covers only a third of the budget funds and only 18 of the nearly 9,000 budget beneficiaries. In doing so, the question is, as logically, when and if we are going to get, even if we are going to get, a partial audit of the final account, i.e. the data on the spending of money in 2009, which is, by the logic of things, and the very view of the calendar was already to be found here in parliament. I note, ladies and gentlemen, that immediately after the presentation of such a report, due to the relationship that has power towards one of these institutions, the competence of members of an independent DRI was also questioned, and the government then very determined to react by deciding to withdraw the 2008 Final Account Bill in order to most likely correct the observed errors and inconsistencies. I would just like to remind you that Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has even said that this move has been taken due to minor cosmetic changes in the report. What is evident is a message that can be carried out on the basis of such a move, which is clearly not a clear and firm intention to determine the specific responsibility of those ministries and ministers who have violated certain rules of law and requirements caused by the current political situation and some higher reasons. So, what's inevitable, unfortunately, is that taxpayers can only watch tax revenues spend and break legal procedures. In the Serbian Radical Party, we find it truly inappropriate and inadmissible that the issue of responsibility is not even taken seriously. While acknowledging that the issue of the DRI report is outside his constitutional jurisdiction, Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic also issued a statement in which he was finally found to be making great progress that Serbia finally has a DRI report. What, then, classmates and colleagues, is really looking forward to progress if no one is to bear responsibility and sanctions? The public is mostly familiar with the main findings of the DRI, which is, just to remind you: breach of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, the millions of costs that are under the representation, unwarranted labour contracts, astronomical fees, "aware" the work of people in certain health centres, whose working day has been charged as if they had worked 30 hours a day, and a lot of other anomalies. It was also found that public procurements amounted to two billion dinars in the gray zone, that the Republic Public Revenue Administration without the public procurement process had obtained fuel bonuses worth 110,000,000 dinars, that in the Ministry of Finance in the balance of income and expenditure, 379,000,000 donations were spent, and no loans were recovered from the budget of 14.9 billion dinars; in the Republic Property Directorate, all employees worked overtime and received eight million dinars, etc. So what you could see in this DRI report is just a small part of the story. In light of the amendments to the DRI Act, it is said that increasing the salaries of state auditors creates an opportunity for the institution to humanely strengthen. Currently, DRI is known to have five state auditors, two top state auditors, and it is planned to employ three top state auditors and 27 state auditors this year. In the opinion of us in the Serbian Radical Party, it is of paramount importance that what happens next. It is undeniable that it is necessary to enable people who are employed in this republican institution to make maximum working conditions, but the main shifts will only be made when this body, therefore the DRI, begins to assess the relevance of the funds spent, not just the compliance of spending with the legal regulations. In fact, what the DRI is currently dealing with is actually work and other bodies, such as the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, various internal audits. The DRI report pointed to some serious problems, which have nothing to do with individual or individual responsibility alone, but with systemic deficiencies, such as shortcomings in individual procedures, so that it is quite logical to ask – is it only irregularities and violations of the law or the incompleteness of the rules? In the end, I would like to point out that the SRS will insist that this whole story that has been taking part in the last few months, since the formation of the DRI, then with these amendments and additions to the DRI Act, not only has the system "shared up, the mouse was born", but that concrete measures are actually taken to combat what is most constricting and which causes the most problems in the functioning of a state, which is the problem of corruption that they are facing and where this should never happen, and these are republican institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40719	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. You've got fourteen minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40720	The Serbian Radical Party is not for populist measures and measures that are pure demagogy, such as some other parties in opposition and government. We believe that someone who has been professional and who has spent years studying for this job, such as the DRI job, deserves to have a salary that is approximate to the one that exists in the private sector. It is widely known that in the private sector, such professionals have about 2,000 euros and that the best staff, as is the case with other public enterprises, is because the state, under the influence of the IMF and the EU, is not a good employer in terms of wages, moving into a private sector. In order to prevent this, of course, it is necessary to support these amendments to the law and to increase the salary to auditors. However, there is one political, economical and whatever dilemma you want – how is it possible to raise salaries in a state institution, if it is in line with the IMF that the salaries are frozen, that pensions are frozen and that it may last more than a year, maybe two, maybe three years? It is not yet known, but given the experience with the IMF and negotiations, which are more like the ultimate requirements of the IMF (and this other side accepts everything), I would rather believe Bogdan Lisovic, who is head of the IMF office in Serbia, who says that defreezing of salaries and pensions will not be this year. He made that statement on 11 May 2010. Also, 2. 2. In 2010, he said that defreezing wages and pensions would lead to allegedly, I don't know, based on what data, to an increase in deficits from 4% to 6%. So if on the one hand you have a freeze of wages and pensions, which is essentially not because inflation is known to be about 7%, in this year and next year, that's what the outgoing governor said, and on the other hand you have an increase in wages in the DRI, then the question is, what is the real motive of that salary increase? In this context, it should be borne in mind that, for example, in other public enterprises, such as the Railways, they are paid at a miserable level of 30,000 dinars. It is the same in the state road, with 51,000 dinars in the EPS. You have 1,600,000 pensioners, who will in fact have 7% less pensions this year and next. In this context, a letter on the intentions of the governor, the finance minister and the prime minister may also be referred to the IMF on 18 March, where they are said to be frozen and paid and retired and that I quote, "it will be strictly frozen employment, including those who are employed at a certain time". So on the one hand you have a request from the IMF, you have one rigid policy that leads to the collapse of the social rights of employees in the state administration, and on the other hand you have an increase in wages and new employment. I think the only answer to the question of why this is happening and why double standards are applied in the text that came out in "Blica" 29. 3. In 2010, which says Serbia could lose 200m euros in credit assistance to the European Union (the question is what is credit assistance), unless the DRI does not control financial reports this year at least three public enterprises. So when you take this into consideration, it is concluded that the revision is not done because of those reasons that are mentioned in the amendments to the law, but because of so-called. requests from the European Union. That this is true shows that last year is one of the conditions for getting so-called. Direct budget assistance of 100m euros from the EU was the review report on the 2008 final budget account. I'll remind you, it's that report that we had about an hour to discuss on parliamentary issues, which has about 165 pages. In the report, already on page six, the state auditor sincerely admits that he is unable to handle all the tasks he has received from the state, that he is unable to process even one third of the ministries and has selectively controlled the budget and among the ministries. On the other hand, he also (on the side of ten) says he was unable to do the whole business of the Treasury, which is a very important institution, properly. It also acknowledges on page 18 that there is an unorganised internal audit; there is also an objection to the Republic Directorate on page 20 and, of course, on page 28 they have objections to the work of the National Bank of Serbia. Unfortunately, what should perhaps be most important, as huge funds are allegedly allocated from the IPA funds, from the EU loan, is only being analysed on the 161 and 163 sides. The auditor again sincerely says there is no institution in general that could handle the application, the way the funds are allocated and the total amount of EU funds allocated to Serbia and says there is no co-ordination between the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance. So, instead of focusing on one such very important area as the allocation of EU funds and loans, the DRI handles it on only two sides, from 165 sides. That says there's a so-called. The conflict of interest between the DRI and the one who effectively manages economic policy, the budget, which is the IMF and the EU. So the state auditor can explore various art studios, like on page 91, courier jobs (on page 85), but it's not something that's basic and there's not the basic flow of money, it's some side-by-side stuff and it seems to me to be a kind of pulsism and demagogy. On the other hand, it is similarly noted in the 2009 DRI Annual Work Report, which states how many new employees there will be; in this sense we only have eleven new employees, as regards these European funds. So again one species, I'd say conscious, negligent. Also, it states here that the DRI is working together with the Office of the General Auditor of Norway, which is essentially not so bad, but here you have a focus on media representation, you have a focus on the co-operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Norwegian Parliament, which is one side-by-side thing in relation to training such a professional job requires. Of course, there is another fact that stems from this context, which is that despite the freezing of employment in all other sectors, you have new employment within the EU funds. EU funds co-ordinator in the Serbian government Ognje Miric said a month ago that around 350 more employees would be employed in the ministries for the application of EU funds. So, while the IMF requires that the EU and the World Bank freeze employment, freeze wages and pensions, you have a new inflow of Brussels democracy, which will essentially have two centres to account for -- here and in Brussels. I think it's another example of double standards. They show that DRI's work, despite its best intentions and expertise, which is not disputed, will be conditioned by a conflict of interest which, above all, is due to EU interference in such an important part of the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40721	Mr. Vlajko Senic asked for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40722	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, at the end of the debate, I wanted to express great satisfaction on behalf of the G17 plus that the debate on amendments to the DRI Act enabled practically all parties to support the work of this independent body. I think that this is how we sent a clear message, I would say a parliamentary message, not a party message, about the need for institutions in Serbia that normally do their jobs, which are not part of the daily policy, and that will last no matter what political situation there is in the Assembly or in the government. I think it is important, if by the end of this debate (I think we have a majority in the debate) that we also accept that amendment that means that the salary is 50% higher, because it is not a bargaining or any liquor store with the salary of the president or members of the Council, but simply an expression of the need to accept as MPs what the DRI members themselves have said is an appropriate profit, which would allow them to do their job in a good way and in the right way. I think we would thus demonstrate our complete willingness to meet their demands and show once again that as an institution they have our full support and that they should continue to do their job in the future. The amount of salary that MP Mirovic was talking about will not affect some mass in Serbia's negotiations with the IMF. We, in fact, even for the original version, which meant almost double the salary, received the Ministry of Finance's opinion, which in its explanation made it very clear that there was enough resources to enable such pay in the context of the planned mass of expenditure in the Republic of Serbia's budget. As a party, of course, we will support the motion to amend this law. We will insist that the topic of DRI be removed from the daily policy, that members of the Council, that DRI employees can do their job in the right way, without any direct or indirect pressures, because what they do is a commitment that we as MPs have towards Serbian citizens, therefore, that there is one completely independent, neutral, responsible, professional and professional control of public finances. I am also pleased that (I hope not only because of the commitment to the EU, the 200m euros the state will receive) the DRI will exercise control of at least three public enterprises. I am convinced that funding control, i.e. the control of public enterprises' finances, is also an important segment of the establishment of order in Serbia's financial system. I must finally say that this law is on the agenda thanks to, I would say, all the members of the Finance Committee. This time, regardless of the party differences, we demonstrated a minimum of consent, above all, about the need to pass such a law. For several months, this debate took place in the Committee on Finance. There were different suggestions, ideas, initiatives. I would also like to thank the President of the Finance Committee, Mr Krasic, who has shown understanding, tolerance and patience that we all come together to one solution that would be acceptable to both the National Assembly and the Finance Committee and the DRI. I think that by this law at least a few days we have risen above the daily political situation in Serbia, which implies that there must be absolute opposition between the government and the opposition. It would be good for this work model to be used more by the Assembly in the future. I know that there are huge differences between political parties and MPs sitting in this assembly, but I deeply believe that there are some things that we can find common language about and thus relax political life in Serbia, which is also too dirty, burdened and leads to enormous abstinence and disappointment in people. I think that by adopting this law to a large majority we can send a message to the public that there are moments in Serbia, there are political responsibilities and that there is a readiness of all political actors, all political parties, that when it comes to some interests that are not part of the day policy, we make an agreement between the various political options and I think that this way we all work together in the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40723	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Kasalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40724	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am convinced that the course of this debate has shown that one process has been opened for the completion of the State Auditing Institution in organisational, human and all respects, which should be a prelude to obtaining significant status as an independent institution, which performs very important tasks. At this point, it is impossible to support the idea of this law on amendments to the DRI Act, and to require, to expect the DRI this year, in the coming period, to fully implement its law and Constitution of the intended tasks. I am truly pleased that almost all discussions went in that direction equally. What has been the subject and subject of differences on both the Committee on Finance and between MPs and those who are initiators of this law is that this initial proposal on the State Auditing Institution is not only an expression of the wish of the State Auditing Institution, but it is a proposal which, in my opinion, is deeply based on the commercial basis of the status of professionals who can carry out these tasks. I would like to say that at no point was profit disputed, i.e. the use of the state auditor and the authorised state auditor with the state officials of the first and second order, whose earnings would have been 128,000 and 144,000 dinars, but the profit of an authorised state auditor served as a basis for determining the profits made by the president of the DRI, members of the Council, deputy and supreme state auditor, of all those in the DRI hierarchy. In that sense, I would like to say that this proposal, which provides for Article 1(2), that the earnings of the president of the DRI amounted to 30% more than that of the authorised state auditor, is a minimum of possible profit determination. If this percentage of the salary increase of DRI President in relation to the income of the authorised state auditor, which was originally, as was said yesterday, foreseen in a double amount, which in the opinion of most of us in the Committee on Finance, or almost all MPs, seems to be enormously high and incomparable at this time for the conditions of the severe economic crisis in Serbia, but compared to some countries in the region... So this 30% increase provides the hierarchy, to keep the salary ratio to the level of the state auditor by descending from President DRI's salary. In the event that it, as was proposed, was increased by a percentage lower than 30, we would be in a situation where the Supreme State Auditor has a lower salary than the authorised State Auditor, although he is in charge of this authorised State Auditor. What I'm saying is that, in this sense, we've made sure that we behave as economically and as much as possible and that we take care of current opportunities and potentials. Of course, the Ministry of Finance came out with support and provided the necessary funding. If this proposal is fully supported, I expect that these funds will not be needed in the amount of 25,000,000 dinars, but significantly lower, given that the Ministry of Finance has already declared at the outset that it is supporting and providing funds, which would be significantly higher, according to that original proposal, which would represent the possibility of a double increase in the profits of the president of the DRI, and in this case the proposal is 30%. I think it is this way that the very idea of amending and supplementing the DRI Act is preserved to significantly improve the standard of those doing the job, and these are state auditors and authorised state auditors, which are most needed at this point; they are making significant increases at this point. We expect that this reaction, as well as the state of the commercial market of auditors, will significantly improve the quality of DRI work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40725	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, since there are no more entries on the lists for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if anyone else who has not applied his right to Article 93 wants a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We move to a joint single search of the 6-12th agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE Treaty WITH THE EIB ON THE RURAL SECTOR AND DONATION FOR THE BELEGRAD OF IPA 2008, THE FUNDMENT ON FREE TRADE WITH THE EFTA STATES, THE CONVENTION ON THE RECOGNISATION OF THE EUROPEAN PATS, THE SINGAPORTS OF THE SIGNAL RIGHTS, THE MEMORANDOM FOR THE PREVENTION OF KATASTROF IN SOUTHYSTROF IN THE SOUTHISTIC EUROPE AND THE CONTRACTION WITH THE CROATS OF THE CROATSION OF THE CROATIES OF THE PUBLISHING LAWS, THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE PUBLISHING OF THE PUBLICTORS, AND THE SUBLISHING OF THE COMPLE OF THE COMPLE OF THE SUBLISHING OF THE SUBE CONTRATION 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs and MPs' groups, and this is the MEP's Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS MP's group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia MP group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Milan Nikolic of the SPS-JS Group and MP Dragan Stevanović of the SRS. In accordance with Article 152, paragraph 3, and with Article 142(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Financial Treaty (Research and Development in the Public Sector) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Donation (Employment for Infrastructure Projects for the Local Framework) under the IPA 2008 Multi-user Programme between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Recognition of European Patents (Convention on the European Patent) of 5 October 1973, with amendments to Article 63. The Convention on the European Patent of 17 December 1991 and the amendments of 29 November 2000, the Proposal for a Law confirming the Singapore Treaty on trade law, the Regulation implementing the Singapore Treaty on trade law and the Resolution of a diplomatic conference supplementing the Singapore Treaty on trade mark law and the Regulation implementing the Singapore Treaty on trade law, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Initiative for the Prevention and preparedness in the event of disasters for the region of South East Europe and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Waterway Navigation and their Technical Maintenance. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The Finance Committee, MP Branko Ljiljak, vice president of the Committee? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Science and Technological Development, MP Pavel Marchok, vice president of the Committee? No, I don't. ) Defence and Security Committee, MP Dusan Bajatovic, deputy chairman of the Committee? No, I don't. ) Committee on Transport and Communications, MP Velimir Ilic, chairman of the Committee? No, I don't. ) Chairman of the Legislative Committee National MP Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. ) At the session of the Legislative Committee, did the MPs of Milorad Buha, Srboljub Zivanovic and Sreto Peric, who gave an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, want to explain their opinion? Yeah. ) The word has a master's degree in Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40726	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, I have issued an opinion aimed at improving the draft law on the validation of the Convention on the Recognition of European Patents and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Singapore Treaty on Marking Law. The aim of each bill is to improve legal regulation, and its application. I suppose it wants to strengthen co-operation between European countries in the area of protection of inventions, as such protection can be obtained in these countries based on a single patent recognition process and establishing a certain uniform rule on recognised patents. This Convention seeks to establish the right of a Contracting State to recognise patents and finds. On the Committee on Science and Technological Development, we have been informed that 37 countries are members of this Convention on the Recognition of European Patents. The patents under this convention are called European patents. This kind of centralized system is supposed to lead to cheaper and safer protection. If you're a member of this family, you don't need a representative, and the application is much cheaper. Ladies and gentlemen, after the Friday revolution and the 21st century entry into the 21st century, it has become a political party, not the effect of scientists and highly qualified engineers and experts, who possess innovation skills, or achieve results. We do not play a significant role in any significant discipline in Europe and the world. Globalisation has led to a multiplication of technology and science centers, so Western Europe, the United States and Japan, Canada... Or, we could say, after twenty years, Russia, India, China, even the Middle East, countries that have greatly advanced in scientific and technological terms, which shows their financial effect of investment. Ladies and gentlemen, so far our inventive men have delivered about 400 patents, but I don't know when they'll see the light of day. It is necessary that behind every patent stands the institute and state, but I ask you – which institute and what state? These are mahogany institutes that were part of large companies, which were financially and professionally behind every innovation and patent. What is it today, after criminal privatisation and destruction of the economy and production in Serbia? Scientific research is not funded by new tycoons, such as Miskovic and Bek. The plague, a protected witness, is the owner, unfortunately, of several colleges. This is Serbia's reality today. As far as the proposal for a law confirming the Singapore Treaty on trade mark law is concerned, there is a greater harmonisation of stamps and a new form of stamps, i.e. The legal fact of the stamp where the registration of the trade mark is to be agreed. Also, this brand wants to be kept from counterfeiting every product. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Serbia, the most important patent, and possibly the latest innovation, is how to catch criminals sitting next to your right knee. They seem to have stolen for themselves, but I'm afraid they haven't stolen for you, too, for those who need to order this mission, as you say, which is most important in Serbia, to be carried out today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40727	Thank you. Mr. Radojko Obradovic is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40728	On the basis of Article 27, I have an application, as we are discussing a set of very important laws, and we have not received any official information, to let us know who will present before the Government the legislator of these laws, so that we can adequately participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40729	Mine's a slip. It's an accident. I inform you, it is very correct, that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Đukić-Dejanović, acting unanimously to Article 88(1), called for today's session, on the joint single-session of the agenda from 6th to 12th, in addition to the representatives of Prime Minister Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of Infrastructure and Minister of Science and Technological Development, Ivica Dačić, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Minister of Interior and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure, whose arrival we expect every hour, invited the sittings to attend and: Zoran Ćirović, Assistant Minister of Finance and Minister of Interior, Predrag Marić, Assistant Minister of Interior, Pavle Gajic, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure, Milorad Todorov, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of the Interior and Security of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. The word is from Mr Sreto Peric, who held an opinion at the Committee on Science and Technological Development session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the meeting of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, I have issued an opinion on the Singapore Treaty on trade marks and the Convention on European Patents. We can't take transnational systems, when it comes to the SRS, from a critical point of view. It might not be a bad idea to say that Mrs Branka Totic and Mirela Boskovic show a proper and professional relationship when it comes to the agenda points for which they are responsible, of course, on the subject of the Institute of Intellectual Property, but the same cannot be said about the Minister for Science and Technological Development. This is actually a picture of the minister's relationship to the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. We respect the fact that at this point, there may be no more resources for science and technological development than is set aside, but we cannot accept that transnational institutions, such as the Convention on European patents and the Singapore Treaty on Marking Law, are not being watched critically and that we do not see what this brings us. If by any chance the Minister of Science and Technological Development... You know, he likes to use sports terms and says – we play, we compete. This desire for us to adopt the Convention on European patents rather reminds me of a football player who didn't play for "Radjevac" from Krupanj, and would like to play for the European team, if possible, as well as the world. What is negative about the European Patents Convention? It is negative, above all, that the principle of territoriality applies, and that means that those countries that have not signed the Convention on European patents cannot count on the protection of their patents within those countries... It is said to the Committee on Science and Technological Development that these are primarily EU member states and, as far as this comes, about seventeen countries, mainly from Central Europe, which have signed this Convention. The fact is, the Convention on European patents since 5 October... We do not like that this was October 5th 1973; for us October 5th is a synonym for many things that certainly are not good for the state of Serbia, and above all for the Serbian people. But let's put that aside. The European Patents Convention was signed in 1973 and entered into force in 1977. The last changes were in 2000 and entered into force in 2007. It's waiting too long. If we have such a fact in mind, then there's no special reason for us to rush there as soon as possible. There is one more thing, since November 2004, 18,887 applications by European patents have been announced in the Republic of Serbia, 425 has been recognised. You see what the disproportionate proportion is when it comes to the recognition of European patents by applicants from Serbia. This indicates that even if this convention is to be adopted, we cannot expect that progress and the reasons that you state in an explanation for the adoption of this Convention. Perhaps much more attention should be paid to setting aside more significant resources, especially for young talents. Certainly, special attention should be paid at this time to the establishment of a strawberry fruit institute. We are entering the season in Ariel if it would be very important to resolve this issue. It seems to me that lately we have been talking a lot more about regional phenomena, about statistical regions, in order for some political parties that do not now have a foothold with voters in Serbia to gain some credibility. Mr. Chairman, as far as I'm concerned, I don't miss the Minister of Science and Technological Development at all; I refer to that because I am talking about agreements that are within his jurisdiction. His relationship with this problem could have been seen several times. He could actually be seen from the moment he was elected Minister of Science and Technological Development. His presence here would not contribute to improving the quality of these agreements that are on the agenda, so perhaps it was unnecessary for you to explain that they are invited, that we expect them and that they should come. As MPs, we have the full right to discuss these agreements and to propose to our colleagues that in the day to vote this fact, we bear in mind that such a relationship is manifested under these agreements. It should be remembered, first of all, that I am now speaking to Mrs Totic, that the SFRY at some point did not accept this convention agreement... (Chairman:Time, Mr. Perry. ) Just one moment, on the Convention on European Patents, and it cited its reasons, that at that moment they are not ready for such a thing. I am sure that even the Republic of Serbia is not ready at this point, and it should be kept in mind these two facts that I have stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40731	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40732	Mr. Novakovic, you have just read the names, minors, half of the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but here we see absolutely no one but the lady and gentlemen of officials from various republican ministries, so please give a break or ensure that Article 87 is respected. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that at least one resolution minister be present in the O.R. because today we need to discuss the ratification of seven different international contracts from different areas. It is a great honor for the present lady and gentlemen, but it is really unacceptable for a debate on such important international contracts to take place without any of those members of the Government being present at the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40733	Thank you. You're absolutely right. By applying article 88, I'm setting a break of one hour and continuing our work at 12.25 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-13-0.u40734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the absence of the largest number of ministers I have called for to participate in this agenda, so, of the six ministers I have called for, five is out of the country, I estimate that their participation in the work or at least one of them is necessary, so we delay this session and debate on this agenda point and continue on Tuesday, May 18, at 10 o'clock. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
