ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36164	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that only on Tuesdays and Thursdays after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving on to a further debate, we are working on the basis of Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or MPs, shall use the right to request information and explanations, based on Article 235. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36165	I would like to ask Mrs Svetlana Vukajlovic, director of the Republic Health Insurance Office, the honourable president and working presidency, fellow MPs. The dental science deals, first of all, with prevention. The children's and preventive dentistry clinic has to deal with prevention, for the simple reason that children are without teeth, have tooth, face, jaw anomalies, etc. However, the decision by Mrs. Vukajlovic, or perhaps the health minister, does not allow them to deal with prevention, but only the therapeutic part of the medical, or dental profession. I'd like to make a written note of whether the dental school will finally get that right to deal with and prevent, because they're in secondary medical care and they can't deal with only primary and tertiary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36166	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36167	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, I have a question, namely asking the Ministry of Agriculture, from the Minister of Agriculture, and the topics are at risk of agricultural households, households, or threatened agricultural land due to unregulated streams of rivers in Serbia. Recently, on television, we watched the most drastic examples from the Sword, where the Sava River carries hectares and hectares of agricultural land every day. I want to apostrophe one problem and one example. So, I ask the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture – what is the Ministry of Agriculture doing on this issue, that is, how does it plan to solve this problem? This time I particularly refer to the Athar of the village of Katrera in the Chapanese municipality, where every year the West Morava river carries hectares and hectares of agricultural land, so that our peasants, our farmers, in such an unusual way, would say a tragic way, because of the negligence of the state towards farmers, remain without their fatherland, remain without the parts of the "factory under the sky", as we like to say when we need the voices of peasants, and the state does nothing. None of them have even been released from the work of some of the duties against the state, which our farmers, despite the accidents that have hit them, have fulfilled. So I'm asking the Ministry of Agriculture - what does the Ministry of Agriculture think they're doing to solve these problems? This time I especially apostrophe of the Chačan municipality, the Atar of the village of Katra, where people have been engaged in agriculture and live on their land for hundreds of years, feeding on this city population and our people, and each year they remain without the work of their fatherland and their inheritance. Is there any means in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture to address these problems, therefore, to address the problem of the water flow of our rivers? I expect the answer as soon as possible, because we have seen that, unfortunately, there have been floods in some parts of our country. Of course, the greatest harm and the greatest tragedy is that people were left without homes to live in, but believe that nothing less tragedy is when people go out into their atheras, to their agricultural land and see how their homeland, their inheritance, which they have been working for hundreds of years, the rivers relations at one point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36168	The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36169	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the constitutional obligation of Parliament and our MPs is to carry out a legislative, but also a control function. Parliament's job in all democracies is to pass laws, but it is equally important to carry out a control function, primarily the Government, but also all the executive authorities. It's a job to work on; not a much more developed democracy and democracy with a much longer experience than ours have yet to find real control mechanisms. Our Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work, amended by the Rules of Procedure, which was adopted a year ago (18 February 2009) provided for amendments to that Rules of Procedure, provided that MPs could do so twice a week, on Tuesday and Thursday, before the beginning of the session, as you said at the beginning, and ask questions to all those institutions that answer parliament for their work and get answers to those questions. This is certainly one of the mechanisms to strengthen the control function of parliament, but the full purpose of this control function can only be realised in one way – if we get an answer on these issues, because it is extremely important to raise certain issues, it is extremely important to talk about different topics and it is in these issues that the diversity of political parties is seen because each is potential for other things. What is extremely important for the implementation of this control function is answers to the questions asked. I have one very simple question for Parliament Speaker Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic: Madam President, how many total questions, based on Article 235, have been raised since the change of Rules of Procedure, i.e. since 18 February 2009? Second question: how many total answers have come to the questions asked? I think we'll get an answer very easily. The Rules of Procedure provide for 15 days to receive an answer. I think only when we get that answer can we get a full picture of our control function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36170	The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36171	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia and for Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, for his ministry. It is a domestic car carrier which, when transporting goods from other countries to Kosovo and Metohija, has been issued permits for a third country in the ministry of Mr Mrkonjic. In this way, our country indirectly recognises Kosovo and Metohija's independence, contrary to international law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. To be precise, I'll tell you that there are three types of transport permits: one is transitory, the other are bilateral, so between the two countries, and the third type of permits are third country permits. For example, when our car carriers load goods, for example, in Croatia and intend to unload them in Kosovo and Metohija, they must deliver a permit for a third country. So Kosovo and Metohija are treated as an independent state. The question for Mr. Mrkonjic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is – why do they allow such a thing in the first place? How can the government of the Republic of Serbia grant licenses for a third country to car carriers in Belgrade, and its officials advise car carriers to when they go to the Croats and intend to unload goods in Kosovo and Metohija to carry a permit for a third country? So this is really scandalous, it's the opposite of our Constitution. I'm interested in why the Government of the Republic of Serbia behaves that way. The second question: what did the ministry of Mr Dacic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the BIA do to curb the harmful influence of the Federal Union of European ethnic groups, an organisation dealing with minority issues, which operates in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which, for example, is forbidden to attend in the Republic of France and Italy, is prohibited from meeting them, and is engaged in manipulation of members of national minorities? So, the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups is an EU-sponsored organisation, the Federal Foreign Ministry of the Republic of Germany and, according to French geopolitical expert General Pierre Marie Gallo, the German security service GNI. They had several meetings on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, two parties registered in the Republic of Serbia are members of these organisations, as well as one minority group. At this point, I won't name their names, I'll do it later. What is the problem with the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups? The Federal Union of European Ethics Groups issues a magazine called "Europe of Ethnics". The magazine contains ancient Hitler's Nazis, such as Bem, Steinher and Rojja, so people who were tasked by Hitler's Germany to deal with minorities, for example, in occupied Czechoslovakia. The federal union of European ethnic groups continues such a tradition and, as I told you, operates on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This action is contrary to the laws of the Republic of Serbia, contrary to our Constitution. I will tell you once again that France and Italy on several occasions banned the meetings of the Federal Union of European ethnic groups in their territory. Her German keyboard is FEUV. I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the BIA – what have they done to investigate and curb the harmful functioning of the Federal Union of European ethnic groups in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36172	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? In the electronic system, MP Mirko Chikiriz has been reported. The chairman's desk has not yet been given the authority of the parliamentary group. Is there that kind of authority, so it'll come? Yeah. Here you go. People's MP, do you want a word or not? Thank you. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives are answering for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of MPs - I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Zoran Kasalović, Riza Halimi, Elvira Kovac and Milan Lapčević. Notice of invitations to the sitting - pursuant to Article 88(1) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Đukić-Dejanovic, besides the representative of the proposings of Snezana Malovic, the justice minister, has called for the members to attend Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and Vladimir Ceklic, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Justice. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amnesty (Principles) You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group Progress Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Mission group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Sasa Dujovic, MP of the SPS - JS, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, MP Sreto Peric. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled search on the Amnesty Law proposal. Before I give a word to the proposing representative Snezani Malovic, the minister of justice, a national MP Tomislav Nikolic was registered in the electronic system. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Only as president of the parliamentary group. Thank you. Does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36173	Thank you. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the debate in principle, I would like to make some preliminary remarks on the Amnesty Bill proposed by the RS government, which prepared the Ministry of Justice in co-operation with the Diaspora Ministry. Amnesty is one of the institutes of criminal law that has been adopted in general and envisions all modern criminal laws. By its legal nature, amnesty is an act of political will by the highest authorities of the state. According to Article 99(1), point 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly gives amnesty for criminal acts. In accordance with Article 109 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Criminal Code, amnesty is an act which, namely, undefined persons, whose circle is determined by the act of amnesty, gives the release from prosecution or, in full or in part, the release from the execution of the sentence, replaces the fine with a minor penalty, gives rehabilitation or abolishs individual or all legal consequences of the conviction. The release from prosecution is actually an abolization, which is contained in the act of amnesty. The release from prosecution applies to all persons covered by amnesty, regardless of whether they are already being prosecuted for an act for which amnesty is given or the criminal proceedings are ongoing, with no relevance to the stage in which the proceedings are being conducted. If an amnesty is granted release from prosecution, a procedure that is not launched can no longer be initiated, and if the procedure is ongoing, it will be suspended. If the act of amnesty gives full exemption from the execution of the sentence, and the person covered by the amnesty act has not yet begun with the maintenance of the sentence, or if the execution of the sentence has not yet begun, the sentence will not be executed; if the execution is initiated, then it will be suspended. The amnesty law, which is today, gives amnesty for certain crimes committed by a group of crimes against the Serbian Army. In view of the fact that new regulations governing the defence area have been adopted last fall, notably the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligations, the Civil Service Act, amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army, which are also foreseen for the professionalisation of the military, it is estimated that it would be justified to give amnesty for certain criminal acts to persons who have failed to carry out military obligations under the current rules, and against whom a criminal act is being conducted or ended. In addition, it should be borne in mind the fact that, according to available data, there are about 140,000 military taxpayers abroad, of which about 44,000 are recruits, and that an extension of the recruiting obligation is reached annually at the request of about 5,000 military officials. The crimes for which amnesty is proposed are being prosecuted for some 5,000 crimes, mainly against our citizens living and staying abroad. In a situation where a large number of military officials are abroad and have not regulated a military obligation, it is unfair to attribute the whole blame for such a situation to them alone. A significant number of military officials abroad are not objectively able to make contact with our diplomatic and consular representations to regulate military obligations for reasons of distance, insufficient information, costs and other reasons. In addition, military bonds living abroad, most often young people, fear a possible arrest when they return to Serbia when they want to visit their family, as this could cause harmful consequences, such as the interruption of education or the loss of work abroad. Due to the above, a number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are staying abroad and have not regulated their military obligation, it is defined for the release from RS citizenship, so it is a clear need for our country to prevent the outflow of our citizens, especially young people. Article 1 The bill sets out the period of time for which amnesty is given and taxively lists the crimes which are the subject of amnesty. In particular, amnesty is given for criminal offences: avoiding military obligations under Article 394, avoiding the list and review referred to in Article 395, non-execution of the material obligation under Article 396, avoiding military service by incapacitation or deception from Article 397, and voluntary absence and escape from the Serbian Army under Article 399, prescribed by the Criminal Code. In addition, the bill stipulates that amnesty is given for the period from 18 April 2006, when the previous Amnesty Act was adopted, for the same crimes, and until the day of entry into force of this law. Article 2 The bill is a provision detailing the forms of amnesty given to this law, which are a release from prosecution and release from execution. Article 3 The draft law states that amnesty does not affect third party rights, which is otherwise in line with the system law resolution, Article 111. Criminal code. Articles 4 - 10. The draft laws are procedural provisions, which include any law on amnesty, which prescribes the jurisdiction of courts, the procedure for adopting a solution to the application of amnesty, the right to appeal, the release to the freedom of the person to whom the amnesty applies, if that person is in custody or maintains a prison sentence, the procedure to delete the conviction from the criminal record, as well as the subsequent application of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the amnesty procedure. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate in principle and in particular the proposed law will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36174	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. He's not there. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The rule is that the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, receive the word from a larger parliamentary group. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has been registered in the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is, I think, already the third law on amnesty since DOS came to power, about the amnesty applied to those who have not responded to the call to serve their military time in the army of the country where they are. Amnesty is indeed an act of pardon and is usually applied when the situation in the country is difficult, when the number of crimes exceeds the possibility of judgments and sanctions being applied, but in this case there is no such reason. It's really cynical when the promoter says he's looking for an emergency procedure to remove any possibility of chaos in the country, this or that. So this law on amnesty, which has now amnesty of persons who have avoided serving their military term since 2006 and have fallen under the provisions of the Criminal Code, is in fact a sign that you who run the country or in this area do not know what you want. In such undefined relations in the country, the Ministry of Justice is performing with the Amnesty Law proposal. The defence minister was to sit here, the president of the Republic and the chief of staff were to sit here and tell us what they wanted from the Serbian Army, to tell us whether the young men who meet the legal requirements for this, the physical, the mental, the years of age, would serve military service in the Serbian Army or not. It's much better, it's much more honest, with much more care for the state to say – it doesn't have to be a military deadline, one who wants to be able to respond, one who doesn't want to be. You are putting many citizens of Serbia in an unequal position. I could assume you'll always amnesty those who don't serve the military deadline, but that can't be the basis for my behavior. I must not avoid one obligation, which falls under the terms of the Criminal Code, convinced that you will amnesty me. That doesn't make sense to Serbian citizens who are going to the military. All of us who served the army counted it as a lost part of our lives. So you're separated from the science you've been working on, the work you've been doing, separated from your family, separated from your dates, from your company. You fall under the discipline of none before or after the army. It comes to you as an episode in which you were thought to be a man. Since it does not become a man by military service today, since the Serbian Army is absolutely falling by many of the characteristics examined, and by reputation, both by discipline and by the safety of those who are there, then the question arises – what is your ultimate goal with the Army of Serbia? A man would have to be very cruel if he voted against the law on amnesty. Amnesty is a great work and always refers to a greater number of faces. This is not an individual act to which the President of the Republic resorts. It's a general act, it's a law passed by the Assembly. I don't know if it'll be there or how many faces are going to be amnesty. We have no analysis here of how many Serbian citizens, meanwhile, have served a military term, as far as it is not, against how many proceedings are being conducted, who are persons in custody or serving the prison sentence, who have served the entire prison sentence. They'll be the only ones to get rid of that conviction, but you haven't given them amnesty. He did his time, he's a free citizen now. So, a lot of moral dilemmas are put in front of a man who, during your reign, from October 5th to today, has three times had the opportunity to vote on amnesty. The crime that is scheduled is the same, in my opinion, as is the act of driving in an alcoholic state, as this is now -- that you're chasing these drug dealers. There are no easier and more serious crimes. He has them, but the penalty, or punishment, has determined what is easier and what is more serious. When you place something in the works for which the prison is scheduled, then you need to think about why there is only one act, or why it still exists as a criminal act. Ten years does not apply the provisions of these members of the law that you have stated here. Then why the provisions of this law? What is the crime of avoidance in the first place, if you constantly amnesty anyone who has since 5 October avoided responding to their obligation to all the laws of the National Assembly? That's why the SNS doesn't even know what to think about what the ultimate purpose of your law is. You say it's valid until the day of entry into force, eight days from the day of publication. Let it be, for example, March 20th. What will happen on March 21st to one who avoids serving military duty? You will tell me: it falls under the law of the Criminal Code, the member, the one and the one, and he will say, "You have been amnesty for these crimes for ten years, I will commit it, because I will not be punished." I ask you to silence the MPs who disturb me to think. If they don't think for themselves, let them not prevent others who can think for themselves from doing so. So, if I knew that you had prepared a law under which the military service would be voluntary, I would vote for this amnesty. But how do I know that from that March 21st, for example, there's going to be people you're going to punish again, and she's hoping to give them a new amnesty, or that the changed form of authority will give them amnesty, then I don't know how to put myself up to this problem. Many families are waiting for this. You used to justify it to us that there are Serbian citizens who are distracted, so they say -- they can't come for New Year's Eve, they can't do Christmas, they can't celebrate with their parents, they're threatening to punish him for avoiding military obligations. She'd threaten him if he stole something from the store. Many have fled abroad to avoid serving a military term. I think this law thinks more about those who break the laws than about those who respect them. That's why amnesty should always be cautious. According to the Constitution, the congregation has the authority to pass the law on amnesty. We'll bring it this time, probably, as we've done since October 5th on several occasions. I'm just asking you to run the country for a little while. We don't need firemen to put out the fire. We don't need to get to the fire. It is not necessary to build up crimes to the extent that it is impossible to implement a criminal policy. So this crime... Please, since you've cut down all the judges and prosecutors, you can now commit yourself to justice, justice and justice. This crime would be nice for you to erase, in co-operation with the Department of Defense. Let him propose to amend and supplement the Military Act, so that whoever wants to be able to serve a military term. Anyone who turns 18 goes and says, "I want to serve, I don't want to serve." He's either bound or not, and the job's done. You put us here in a position to think about people who have avoided military obligations, and each case is individual, each one has a reason, and we here are merciful to those who have not served a military term, and merciless to those who have served, since there is nothing for them. There's not even a job internship for them, for example. Instead of having some motivation, that the state is paying them pension, disability and social security, so when they're serving a military term to have, well, that little job internship, no, they have a salary for a pack of cigarettes a day. If you were to regulate relationships like that, we would be willing to help you pass such a law, because that is our policy, the military must be professional. Of course, to one who is honored, who is proud to serve a military term, should be allowed to do so, in one of the ways that you have predicted, or by objecting to conscience or under arms, it doesn't matter. After all, I am convinced that the Serbian Army will never war again and that we should prepare special units that will fight the gangs you created from October 5th to today, which have evolved to the point that half of the ministers are worried whether tapes have been found at Saric's or not. It's much more important to fight this crime than to pretend we have an army, which we amnesty every three or four years. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party's attitude towards amnesty is even positive. We believe that amnesty is indeed an act of mercy and that the people are the only ones who can give this act of mercy. But, according to the amnesty in these cases, we are very careful, as we amneste you, a poor government, which is not in one area at all, in the area whether the country should be defended or not, whether the country deserves to be defended or not, whether Serbia is within the borders listed in the Constitution in preamble, means together with the AP Kosovo and Metohija, or not. As you wander in many segments of social life, so do you wander in Serbia's military. As a monopoly, you listed the company SDPR, in which everyone in the management of the company has at least two or three private companies. You sent two managers from that company to the Department of Defense to link that crime completely and completely. I think the study of the situation in the military is, in this way, certain states of defence, the main task of a good, fair and fair government. Let's take care of all the problems we've got here, and you've got a lot of problems. You've got high-priced purchase rates, and of course no one can control it, it's not available to auditors and the public, it's under the influence of military secrets, just like the police. Until we have complete control, all these laws actually serve not to raise too many votes against what you do in that area. It is your fault that these crimes are committed, it is your fault if they are not punished; our mercy will be to free it all, but do not teach the citizens of Serbia that there are crimes that can be committed because they will not be punished, because we have bad authority. In this Serbia, ten people lie on the track and trains don't go for three days. If the government were fair and fair, if no one had got any of that, if none of the ministers had been involved in this crime, the police would have put these people away, but every cop wearing a bat knows that honest people are lying on the rails, and criminals are ordering these congratulatory people to beat them. Take care of that. Life is one and very fast, and whoever's in power is twice as fast as who's in opposition. You must honor your obligations. You took the responsibility to stand before those who run the Justice Department. So some of your assistants there, or whatever they call themselves, explain the strategy of the Justice Department, and you, as a lovely woman, mother, are in charge of giving your character, and they give their work. You're not involved in this at all. So as far as we're concerned, you're authorized, you have most, you run this country however you think best, think about what's going on on the street, what's going on in each house individually. The act of mercy cannot save the government, but it may save some Serbian citizen who was convinced that this act of mercy would win. I'd rather anyone who commits a crime while he's doing it thinks about punishment, not amnesty, not pardon, not abject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36176	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36177	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, the third law on amnesty that this assembly brings concerns the period from 2006 to today, i.e. until the time of entry into force of this law. What I find difficult in this law is the mere amnesty to talk about when it comes to military and criminal acts of the military, i.e. certain crimes that are clearly mentioned here. The previous two amnesties were about forgiving citizens for failing to participate in the defence of the state and avoiding military obligations, avoiding what many young people are, i.e. many Serbian citizens accepted as their commitment and worked, i.e. defend the state. It's not easy to speak from the position of someone who took part in the defense of the state and just to accept that someone is willing not to participate in the brightest tradition of this people, which is serving the military term. But as it's usually ours, we have to think about the future and everything that's coming to us, and that's to forgive things like this, even though they may not be for forgiveness. In any case, this refers to avoiding military service at times when the army was indeed brought to the lowest possible branches to which it could be brought. However, when in the phase of military transformation we are slowly approaching the professionalization of the military and professionalisation or the creation of units that, we hope never again in the war, will serve in peace to defend the state, in this sense, a professional soldier should be someone who truly performs his duties in accordance with the Constitution and with the laws of this state. Of course, we should leave room so that we can't have all the dry professionals themselves, but that some who want to serve a military deadline can do so. Forgive or amnesty, which is a legal term, not a bad one, the question is, what are we doing here? People who have avoided military service and committed certain crimes listed in this law are set to prove themselves in the coming period, return to this country, if they have already escaped from it, because their sentences have been forgiven, because we will forgive them. In the conversations I had with many of my colleagues and with the citizens about what this law on amnesty means, and apathy caught first and foremost all of our colleagues, my fellow warriors, they said – let them also, let them return, let them work, let them do, if they have already studied for this country, do not have to be in the white world, let them come here. It's one of the motives to finally put an end to the story of the army, to the story of deserters, to the story of the so-called, people's word, to escape from the military and to put things professionally in place, which is that we have a modern, modern army, and that those who want to return amnesty, to let them create for the benefit of this society. That's one of the reasons why I'm going to vote with my colleagues on this bill. We hope that there will be no new amnesty in the next period, that there will be no new things, but that we will all work together to make this country and our society progress in general and move on. From this place I can invite these young people to return here after the adoption of this law and to put all their knowledge they have gained into the modern development of this country, and we are ready and we will always be ready to give them a chance to do so. This law and the passing of this law is exactly the opportunity to do so. So I call on all the MPs, all my colleagues, to make an additional contribution together and invite that youth to return, and we will adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36178	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36179	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Malovic, we will vote for this law and support it, but I think we must take this opportunity to discuss the essence of the problem. A lot of what some previous speakers have said at first glance sounds logical; why would someone be amnesty and exempt from sanctioning for contempt of the law, and someone else, by force of that law, be forced, say, to do something against their beliefs? It's only at first sight of the dilemma and it's not a fake, of course, but it can't be built on an argument that would lead us to criticise this law. If you look at the whole process of amnesty of those who have avoided a military obligation, who have left the country because they did not want to participate in the war, then you will see that the number is shrinking. We are now talking about a group of about 5,000 people, who are largely not living in Serbia, living abroad, who have simply made a decision because of the nature of that life to break the Military Obligation Act and to continue living, expecting to find a solution to the problem that arises at some point. I think the solutions are found, but not only through amnesty, but also through the fact that the military's position in our society is changing, the circumstances in which we live, that a new kind of relationship between citizens and this important institution has been established, and certainly the military is something like that. I don't think today our army has that reputation and image that she had five or ten years ago. The particulars are about restoring trust in the military in our society. Today, you don't go to the military like it was in the case of, say, 2006, when we define the moment since we start applying this law on amnesty. What's the problem? The problem is in an unreformed state. We cannot apply the rules of ordinary law in the 21st century or rely exclusively on tradition. Today society does not function by having the right to invite any of us to war and taking his life because it itself implies that such a right belongs to someone, even if it is a state. That's why we need a professional army, which is why we need membership in the NATO Pact, which is why we need those reforms that we distance ourselves from. They're big paradoxes, and we often meet with them in the work we do. We cannot be blind to thousands of people with disabilities from wars Serbia has not fought; we cannot be blind to the suffering of all those who have cared for their own who have gone to those wars, but we also cannot ignore the fact that it is only the result of a misorganised society. Today, in 2010, we need to challenge ourselves to the professionalization of the military. As a result, this amnesty should not frighten someone by arguing that the fact that 5,000 are excluded from the respect of the law will give rise to some new 5,000. He won't. Today we amnesty much less people than it was last time. Today, there is a much higher percentage of those who go into the army than it was before. All that says we're on a good track, but that job needs to be done. This practically means that we should professionalise our army, create economic preconditions for such a thing, so those 5,000 people who didn't want to serve will do their jobs. Who knows how many of them are the most educated personnel we need today. Who knows what the cost of a lost student year or a working experience at the most productive age is? We need to think about all this. So economic conditions must be created. It's supposed to be our responsibility. Then, we need to leave these ritual rules that format our society and say that the military is a service, like many others around us, and that we are obliged as a state to enable our citizens to benefit from one such service without expecting them to be an integral part of it, as we do not expect citizens to heal themselves, rather than be able to pay for their health insurance, and the state will allow the health care system. The state must also make the security system more efficient, through it and the position of the military itself, through professionalization. If we have adopted the Strategy of Defence, if we are familiar with these planning documents, then we know the deadlines in which this professionalization is planned, it is a step away from us. Therefore, the practical extension of agony would be to ignore the fact that 5,000 people presently pose a problem for the country itself. What if all of them showed up and this state was supposed to take them somewhere, to maintenance, say, jail sentences, if the trials were closed, or if the trials were to begin? How much would that cost, how pointless would that be? Let's put an end to one of the consequences of the wrong organisation of the state, not with ambition that after two or three years, we're re-branding a new law on amnesty, but with ambition to remove the causes of such anomalies. They are actually lying in the fact that life here is very little and that it is understood that the state has the right to knock on our door and invite us to a war or an army, to ask our children, without having any right to question the meaning of such an organization and the possibility of it changing. We'd like to live in a country where we'll be sure to feed and raise our children so that they can do the jobs they want, which we want, not the jobs that the state prescribes. Let them be successful in these affairs and pay the price to those who care, let's say, about their safety, which are professional soldiers and officers. That's one order to pursue, and this is something to enable, and that's what's good. I think there is this sense of double arches, but we are obliged to explain to those who have respected the law that, first, we appreciate their gesture and that, on the other hand, we do not demean their willingness to obey the law by allegedly favouring some who have violated that law. These are not the same situations, they are quite the opposite, although at first glance the analogies that have been established and through the performance of one of the previous speakers seem logical. I don't think that argument we insist on will gain weight if we say that we respected the Military Obligation Act, like most people in this country. On the contrary, it is very binding that we show understanding of those who, out of their beliefs or because of their inability, were not able to do such a thing. This law comes from the assumption that we're all the same and that we all have the same obligations. It's not like that. There are not many such laws in our legal system, laws that condemn you to an identical position, regardless of this great truth that we are not the same and that there is something that separates us from each other. We've introduced civil service, that's what's good; in the meantime, the number of soldiers who opt for civil service has increased. I think that also points to what direction military reforms should continue, because they cannot be ignored in 2010, in which we live, or in 2011, which is mentioned as the year in which the concept of professionalization of our army will begin. There was some kind of prolonging. In any case, we needed this law and we need to support it for people who suffer, because of their families, and because it acts on a problem that's not being talked about so much. We insist on solving this problem – professionalization of the army by standards characteristic of societies like ours. There is no longer a military obligation in Croatia, as is the case here with us; in Montenegro too; in Macedonia too. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a specific state because of its internal organisation, but it is a trend in which it moves. It's something that we need here to accept and move on, and this is certainly a step that allows us to do something like that. That is why we will support the law and open the possibility of a normal life for these people and their families, with respect for those who respected the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36180	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Malovic, although those who have dealt with this bill seem to have an easy topic today (in fact, this law has only eleven members), yet the discussions of my predecessors show that things are much more complicated, more complex and responsible. The way you tried to put it, that's your attitude, your political attitude, and I won't look back on it. The right to tell you, I was thinking about how to start my discussion on this bill, and then Mrs Malovic helped me with it, she says - it is unfair to blame only them. Of course, she thinks of those about 5,000 people who would come under the influence of the Criminal Law for avoiding military service, but now there is a chance to forgive them. Mrs. Malovic, I rarely fully agree with you. Not that it's unfair to blame only them, but they're the least responsible for it, but the question is, who is responsible then? If the law is broken, someone must be responsible – whether the legislator, whether the executive authority, whether he who violates the law. Since we have agreed that they are least responsible, the ruling regime is responsible for the government, and that power since 5 October 2000. You've seen for the third time that such a law is passed, where the same crimes are roughly covered. So the small responsibility, or incomparably less responsibility, is on those perpetrators of criminal acts, than it is on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Who's supposed to be here today for you? But you've legalized it. I will try to talk in my presentation about the legal-theory institution of amnesty and pardon. It's interesting to connect that part, even though there is a fundamental difference, if nothing else, that at least in the organs that will make one or the other decision on this. First of all, it was supposed to be the President of the Republic, it was supposed to be the defence minister and, by some, the representatives of the NATO Pact. Not according to us, I'm sure. You're only here technically to enforce this law. Is the SRS for military professionalization? Sure. We want to have the most modern and modern army in the world, if possible. How do you get to it? It comes in part to the professional composition of the army and the need and opportunities for anyone who wants (and we think it should be a commitment) to serve a military deadline. Let it be in optimal length of time, as long as it takes for the most necessary defence, only defence, because Serbs and Serb armies were never conquering people and never attacking others, but defending themselves. So, a combination of professional soldiers and our obligation to serve a military deadline, to train ourselves optimally, as long as it takes for the first strike and to send a message that we will defend our country in a serious, dignified and patriotic way. Some here forget one dimension of the army. Perhaps these people have retired or retired now; many have been trained and completed by military service. Whether they were drivers, bakers, tailors or other professions doesn't matter, but the military was a sort of school for a number of Serbian citizens and it should not be forgotten. In the legal theory of amnesty and pardon are being studied together, even comparisons are being made. In legal practice, these two institutes are separate. As a matter of fact, there is no big difference, except for the authority that adopts this legal act. Amnesty, in principle, is brought by a representative body, i.e. The congregation, and it refers to the nominally unspecified number of persons to which it is applied, while the pardoning refers to the exact number of persons indicated. When it comes to amnesty, it can be complete, it's also called ablation, and it's complete when it stops or, I would say, puts it in a deposit, puts the crime committed in forget. It is complete if it ceases to pursue, if it ceases to endure the sentence to which the offender has been punished and if there is a erasure of the criminal record of sustained prison sentences. It would be incomplete if someone else was relieved or changed. What else is characteristic? When amnesty is concerned with some side sentences, if they existed, that side penalty also ends. We have here a proposed amnesty for five criminal acts, but it's interesting to remind how much the penalty for these crimes is threatened. It is three months, a year, and even twelve years. I think such an easy approach and a simple proposal to try to pass this law is wrong. Why did I say who should be present today at the adoption of this law and mention the President of the Republic and the Minister of Defence? This is how we send a message to all future recruits not to go into the army, although it's meant to be a crime. You are deluding all those who from the day of entry into force of this law, and that may be the longest within a month, should respond to military service. A criminal code provides for a person who does not respond to a criminal act. You're misleading them and sending them a message that they can hope for the same fate they'll have, for now, about 5,000 of these faces. What happens if someone is not covered by this law after the entry into force of this law and is invited to serve the military term? Are you preparing to re-propose the law on amnesty, with the same crimes, the release from committing the same crimes? It would be much simpler if you sent the message you really want, if you wanted to introduce Serbia into the NATO Pact, which we and the SRS are explicitly and clearly opposing. Perhaps someone should have been here, to explain to us what will be achieved by this and why you are always trying to focus amnesty (or forgiveness or release), whether through the form of the law or in any other way, by applying the law, by giving criminal sanctions, by individualizing prison sentences, on those layers of our society that are more economically rich. Will you ever think about forgiving some non-belt traffic participant? Of course you won't. You will attempt this way to send a message to many citizens that they should not serve the army, and to those who have already sinned against the Criminal Code that they are not subject to sanctions. For ten years you've been in power, why haven't you passed a law in which you'll say, if you have a majority and if you want to, that serving a military term is not an obligation, but that no one should respond at all? It is interesting that amnesty has been sought for persons since 18 April 2006, when the Constitution was adopted, which left the possibility of objecting. A member of the 45th said that a complaint of conscience could be pointed out. Comrade Dujovic, I understand your need to address a number of citizens in Serbia and to tell them how you see it and what you consider to be the reason for passing such a law. I believe that you have spoken to the citizens of Serbia, as I have discussed, on this subject, but how do you explain to your friends, citizens of Serbia, regardless of nationality, who have been prepared to respond and put themselves under the command of the Serbian Army and defend their homeland, those who were not prepared (although we are not for such military service) and that civil service is a military deadline? It is not true that all of these are now abroad, some of them are also in Serbia. We don't have the data here, nor have you been running an analysis, which number of persons has been convicted in approximately four years, how long the prison sentence has lasted. When I said the government was responsible for it, including the Department of Justice, not only in your office, but before you... What about those who endured the prison sentence, if any? They're about to be erased from criminal record, but they may have been sentenced to two years in prison, since you've seen here that it's a maximum of 12 years for doing these crimes. How do you explain to them why you did it? We don't give this attitude because something happened before, so that's how it's always supposed to happen. We are a political party that seeks and aims to make the citizens of Serbia live better, to change certain things that are possible, but we are not meant to change our traditions, to change our deep feelings overnight, and to change at all. Mrs. Malovic, I don't think your relationship with this problem is correct. You accepted, and it is in your jurisdiction under the Government and Ministry Act, but did you open a debate with your colleagues in the government on this issue, did you demand that someone else appear here next to you? The Institute of Amnesty - we have nothing against such an institute, but in connection with these crimes here should have been extremely careful to speak. There are certain members who have been inserted here for the sake of it. Amnesty does not touch the rights of third parties based on conviction. There were no third parties' rights here, except perhaps under Article 397, where someone committed a crime by wounding, incapacitating or otherwise targeting a person or life, but at the request of that person, in order to avoid military service. There are no third party damages in other situations. This is directly directed against the state itself. Why haven't you tried pardoning here? It is a difference in amnesty for a nominally unspecified number of persons, but if the President of the Republic can say, not asking the government – we want to give gas to Bosnia and Herzegovina in some period, why he has not now sprayed and said – we want to pardon those persons without misleading Mr. Sasa Dujovic, in error or perhaps in need, because... I apologize for plowing with my colleague, but simply, to better understand the problem, I see in him representatives of a category of Serbian citizens who owe their debt in the best way; not to repay their debt to the country, but to act in the only possible and correct way. Then why didn't the President say – let's pardon these and those faces? Why do we not solve this in the future, if someone assumes that after this law on amnesty, we will no longer have such persons who will violate the Criminal Code in those criminal acts relating to obligations under the Army of the Republic of Serbia? There's no harm to the third parties she'd be in, they don't exist here. It's characteristic here that now, if someone had an interest in conducting criminal proceedings to prove their innocence by some of these crimes, if the law on amnesty is passed, he no longer has such an opportunity. I guess it's a very small number of people from this group of five thousand who would be interested in this process being led to the end, to prove their innocence, but when the law on amnesty is passed, they no longer have the right to do so. It's very interesting what you stated in your explanation, which is why this law should be passed by emergency procedure. Among other things, the law is said to be passed by an emergency procedure because its prerogative could cause adverse consequences for the country's security. Madam Minister, if you don't mind, explain to us – if this law is not passed by emergency procedure, what are the adverse consequences for Serbia? For the rights of citizens, damage can occur, there I can agree with you; well, if it is true that someone wants to come to Serbia, and can't because he's not sure he won't be arrested at the border, for him perhaps, but the harmful consequences for our country for not passing this law by an emergency procedure absolutely no. We'll hear in the end what you think, whether or not there really is. I must say that for the adoption of the law on amnesty, there is a basis in the Constitution; Article 99, paragraph 12, under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is said that, among other things, amnesty is given for criminal acts. Such a law is passed by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Perhaps some MPs who are deeply against some of the crimes in this area, I don't say the law in general, will have to say in the day to vote that they too are entirely for this law. The deadlines to delete from the criminal record, you predicted... I'm absolutely sure it's other crimes that need to be brought to amnesty, that it's impossible to do this. We from the Serbian Radical Party have warned you many times that when you propose some laws you propose such deadlines in which it is really possible to implement your idea in practice. You very often give some unreal deadlines, and then soon you ask for an extension of those deadlines to apply the law. There's another danger here, as far as general prevention is concerned. I'm not looking at this bill just in relation to these crimes and in relation to this group, I'm conditional on using this number of five thousand because you mentioned it; it's not just about these persons, but it's going to generally weaken the prevention of punishment. After all, you know that punishment does not only play a repressive role, but it also has a role and importance that all future, potential perpetrators of any crime turn away from committing crimes. If three times in ten years we've passed the law on amnesty, then we must be threatening the Institute for the Prevention of Criminal Sanctions. It is necessary to reconsider this proposal, to think about the Army of the Republic of Serbia and not approach the proposed laws in this way, I would say flat-rate, way. Finally, I must remind you once again that Serbia is not a sugar cube that can melt in a cup of water. And in order not to melt, it must have a serious, modern and modern army, with which not everyone will be able to play, whose fate and perspective, above all, before any minister and any president and the Republic and the Government, should be decided by its citizens, and the minister, the President of the Republic and the Government in general should work in the interests of their citizens. Madam Minister, I don't have a chance to address the Minister of Agriculture, but you can tell him, it may be about our country's security, it's not a small number of agricultural producers who say that regulations, which make up about 4% of what's promised for subsidies, just 4%... who watch what happens in Croatia and say they wait a little warmer days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36182	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36183	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Honorable Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amnesty as a criminal justice institute is something that is the general fluid of modern legal systems. As such, it represents a civilizational liquid. Amnesty is a constitutional institute that exists in our legal system, not only in this Constitution, but also in the earlier 1990s and in some previous periods. By its own nature, amnesty is essentially an act of political will of the state, which gives it certain benefits for a particular group of persons. Thus, the state deprives itself of the exclusive right of prosecution and the right to punish a particular group of perpetrators. Unlike pardoning, which is an act by the head of state, we have the President of the Republic, amnesty is by legal nature a law which excludes the perpetrators of certain crimes from prosecution or are released from punishment or rehabilitation, rehabilitation, or erasure from criminal records. Amnesty is a delicate issue, but we have to say that amnesty is spoken of whenever some social decision-makers appear on the agenda to question the integrity of criminal prosecution for a particular group of crimes. I will remind you, although it is also the fellow MPs who spoke before me who have apostrophe, what are the circumstances both in the legal and social environments that have changed. These are, above all, changes in the area of criminal law. So, the previous year in parliament's work marked an active work on the revolutionary, I would say, criminal law reform, especially in the area of sanctions, especially in the area of criminal sanctions. On the other hand, we adopted the most important strategic documents in the field of defence, we adopted the Law on Labour, Material and Military Obligation, and that is, therefore, the legal, political and social determination that simply requires that the issue of amnesty be put on the agenda for this group of criminal offences, which is a total of five criminal acts under the Criminal Code, crimes against the Serbian Army, and to discuss it. I'll remind you I'm a member of 99. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, gives our Criminal Code a broad range of opportunities through which the practical right to amnesty is consummated, namely: suspending prosecution at all stages, from investigation, major investigation, legal proceedings, hence, suspending prosecution, abolishing detention, release from punishment or release from the act of punishment, if the convicted person has begun to endure punishment, rehabilitation of the convicted person and eradication of the criminal record. This law on amnesty, which lies ahead of us, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, provides for the release from prosecution, the release from execution and the removal of conviction. So the three measures that are given to this amnesty are: release from prosecution, which means that for those who are suspected, or are already in the process, that some of these five crimes have been committed, that criminal proceedings are being suspended. The law contains procedural norms, clearly defined as regards the actual jurisdiction of courts, i.e. bodies to implement this act of amnesty. What is important, this is what my colleague Peric observed and said that pro-forma was incorporated into the bill by one member that amnesty does not touch third party rights. It is possible, therefore, not only theoretically but practically, that certain crimes caused damage. What's the damage? Material or immaterial, third party. It is important to say, therefore, that the amnesty does not put those third parties at risk. I just want to say that the MEP Group of ZES supports this law on amnesty. This is the second law on amnesty, after five years, in front of parliament. Is that a group of persons that make up four or five thousand people, I don't know exactly, is the fact that most of the people covered by this law represent our diaspora, our young people in the diaspora, which is because of the lack of intelligence, which is because of the poor communication with the competent authorities of the Ministry since 2006 and, above all, they haven't fulfilled the obligation to serve the military term. In my opinion, this law will have positive effects in this sense that we as a state will send a message to these young people, our diaspora, primarily in the countries of Western Europe, that there will be no prosecution, but that we are not sending any message, either implicit or explicit, that crimes should be committed. On the contrary, we send these young people a message that they are needed to the state of Serbia, that the state of Serbia needs them or that they are desirable citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not only to visit their families and their loved ones, but to return to their country and start life here or to continue something they have already started, or to invest in various projects, whether they are economic, political or any other. For all these reasons, we support this argument given by the minister of justice. I don't think it's necessary for Minister Sutanovac to be here, Secretary of Defense. We adopted the most important acts in the field of defence precisely in this home, not long ago – the Defence Strategy, the Labour, Military and Material Obligation Act. I'll remind you that in the last twenty or thirty years, the recruit's response has never been as high as in the last two years. Professionalisation of the military is a new circumstance, which also contributes to the adoption of such a law. We will fully professionalise the military during 2010 and 2011. We'll have a modern and modern army. Of course, we have the Law on Labour, Material and Military Obligation, but what is important in the end is that amnesty refers to one particular, smaller number of persons and sends them one clear message, one positive message from the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36184	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I shall inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing, submitted with the order of MPs the following parliamentary groups: the LDP Parliamentary Group, the SNS Parliamentary Group, the SPS Group - JS, the SRS Parliamentary Group, the G17 Plus Group and the ZES Parliamentary Group. We move to the section of the session where MPs appear, on the basis of the order in which they apply for a word in principle for a draft law on amnesty. First reported is National MP Vesna Pesic, followed by Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36185	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, I believe it is justified to pass an amnesty law and that these arguments given in this law are credible because there have been certain changes in the laws of the army that we have brought here in October 2009. In particular, this amnesty refers to our citizens who were in the studies, who were unable to stop, and this has led to the avoidance of military obligations, or those who are citizens who live abroad and have not fulfilled their obligation. I know, and as ambassador, that they had great problems because they were persecuted by our authorities for serving the army, which they didn't want to serve because they lived in another country and they no longer felt the need to come, and they had this problem that because of their studies or for their schooling they couldn't come back, because the police would have waited for them at the border, arrested them and taken them to prisons. I think this must be a good reason for young people like that to get rid of it and to come back to the country. But these amnesty laws are really temporary. It has been promised that the military will professionalise in 2011, when these crimes should be abolished, as there will surely be similar cases again, as we are now talking about. Then there will be those who will be amnesty again, because this will continue in this same style, because they have called for these same laws. This law is temporary and we will again pass a law on amnesty for cases from today, so, with a degree of force to professionalization, when there must be an end to these crimes. We're in favour of professionalising the military, of abolishing these crimes, but we have to point to the temporary nature of this, which others have shown, that every third, fifth year, we have to pass this law. I must also mention that as military commander-in-chief, Natasa Micic, was the first to introduce civil service to the army, which had shaken this obligation, that is absolutely correct. Civil service has indeed led to the fact that many of our citizens, above all those living abroad, have not fulfilled that obligation. Of course, I didn't expect the Department of Justice to say that, but I have to point out that the reasons that led to the avoidance of military obligations are not just life abroad, studying, etc. We have to say that over the last twenty years, and over the last ten years, there's been a huge fall in military reputation and that people in principle didn't want to go into that army. You also know the case of the Government of Trifunovic, who saved the lives of 220 soldiers in Varazdin when he heroically defended that barracks and eventually managed to get soldiers, recruits, please nice, where only now the Supreme Court has abolished that verdict, but it is not finished, it is not released, it is only abolished that verdict. We need to look back at that period when Serbia was not officially at war, but people were mobilized, young people, recruits, and sent to fronts, from where they returned to coffins. I also must say that there has never been a confession given to that man who saved those lives. He's staying in a hotel day and day, and he hasn't been laid off, and he's not... Instead of being decorated for saving those lives, he is today considered a traitor in Serbia. Although Serbia was not formally at all at war then, the court has been harassing him for years, it has been withdrawn by military courts, and after that by normal courts, by ordinary court, until there has been an end to the verdict. So, who was ready in the 1990s and later to go to such an army where, just to point out, these young people were deliberately sacrificed, to be an epic, a monument to them, they shouldn't have been helped, falsely promised help, that they would be reportedly saved, they were all to die... This was then done by the government, and this is the Yugoslav Army, which the Serbian Army inherited. We too have this reputation with this “immodest ” should come to an end today. I'd like to say that even in this second period, after October 5th, it's never... This also applies to your judiciary, Mrs. Malovic, I personally wrote to Mr. Predrag Okec, as the president of the city court, for the murder of two soldiers in the barracks in Topcider. You all know that there was a lot of democratic power back then, that it was never investigated, so that the object was sent to Wisbaden, so there was some kind of traffic, so you stalled, there was no open investigation, and then nothing was done against the unknown doer; I think some Mr. Lazarevic tried to do something, but he was disabled. Then it was sent to the FBI to investigate, so he said it wasn't possible, so she was an independent commission. There were other cases in this period that people were leaving for military service, and they were returning to the coffins. While, by military hierarchy, the military doesn't come out with what happened to those two soldiers, as we know, and all the commissions that I've just led to found that they were killed there, I think you have to state as a reason why young people don't want to serve a military deadline – because the army has suffered a great defeat because soldiers in peacetime, there weren't even wars in the environment, are returning to coffins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36186	Six minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Otto Kishmarton has the word, and after him, the Messenger Peter Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36187	Dear fellow MPs, the head of the Prosperity Group, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, spoke about the Amnesty Law proposal, and there is nothing to add or take away. In my presentation, I will first of all express the opinion of the parents whose children have been at military service for the time being, as well as something I have heard from my parents whose children will serve the military term in the future, as their parents feel about the Amnesty Law proposal. This law lays down the period of time for which amnesty is given. The law provides for the amnesty of persons who, from 18 April 2006 to the date of entry into force of this law, have committed, i.e. suspected of committing crimes such as avoidance of military obligations, avoidance of lists or checks, or recruitment, non-execution of material obligations, avoidance of military service, arbitrary abandonment of the military, or escape from the military. The vast majority of citizens of Serbia and the former Yugoslavia have been brought up so that the military is an honor and obligation of every adult male and it is a shame that someone who is healthy and truly avoids the army. In many, and perhaps in all parts of Serbia, it was celebrated when a young boy went into the army, and parents were proud to have a soldier's son. Today, it seems, we live in another world entirely, as far as the army is concerned. I must note that the Serbian Army does not enjoy its reputation as before, it is reluctant to join the army, at the price of some new values today. We live in a society where the reputation of an army and an officer is disgusting. This law will further reduce the reputation of soldiers and officers. Perhaps this law on amnesty will be passed, perhaps so should be, because today we live in a time of chaos, crime, where less value is given to honesty, honor and family. When the amnesty law is passed for the period from 18 April 2006 to today, there will be a great injustice against those who went to the military until today. By going to the army, many have left their jobs, land, families, where they may have been the only feeders. This law will also discriminate against those young people who should join the army in the future. If we hadn't again passed a law on amnesty for those who do not respond to military obligations today, it would be best to abolish the regular military obligation. Let those who do not want go to the army, and those who do not want go to the army, do not have to. Let a paid army be brought in, and at least no injustice shall be done to those who escape the military covenant in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36188	Three minutes and fifteen seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Petar Petrovic has the word, followed by the MP Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36189	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to say that the SPS-JS Group will support this law in principle, and I am sure it will support it even when the final version of the law is voted. What I want to say at the beginning, not to repeat what previous participants have already said, is that amnesty is an act of goodwill to those who have committed some of the crimes provided for by this law, so they have been prosecuted, they are at the expense of punishment, or they are in the process of committing criminal acts. It's not just a reflection of this country's will, it's done in many countries, and I wouldn't take up time for that. However, what we do from the SPS-JS Group have a little problem with, and I would just give a suggestion rather than an objection to the bill... Before that, I would say that many of the participants in the debate are unjustly making remarks against the Ministry of Justice. I think they're just technical processors of this law that was agreed by other ministries and because of the application of some other laws, the Ministry of Justice had to be, in particular, a formal proposer of this law. Therefore, I don't think we should criticise them to refer to the Justice Department, but to someone else who suggested and gave details that this law would be passed. Let's get back to the subject. This is where two basic questions are asked. In my opinion, one of the basic issues is the equality of all citizens before the law. When I say that, I mean those citizens who have fulfilled their legal obligation, served a military term, whether with weapons or without weapons, whether for six or nine months, so they have had some interruptions in the continuity of study, work, work and so on. In a way, the People's Dictionary said, they were at some loss, because during that time, when they were serving a military term, on any basis, they were left without a profit, unlike some others who at that time, whether in the country or abroad, had received material resources and thus brought themselves into a better material and financial position than those who still respected the law and responded to the call for military service. On the other hand, the second question is, what are we going to do with those perpetrators, the parolers, and the law breakers who do not respond to the military's call after the law's entry into force and come under the influence of the law? This law applies only to those who have not responded to the call from 18 April 2006 to the date of entry into force of this law. All of this is in favour of the position of the Single Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia, especially the Unique Serbia, which has, since its establishment as part of its programme, the professionalisation of the military and gives us the right to introduce a professional army in the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible, and leaves the possibility for those who wish to serve voluntarily in the military to decide whether or not they will. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this law has certain positive things, but there is also a lot of things that raises the equality of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would take advantage of the opportunity to quote an elderly man from Pomorava County, who had a general definition for law, who said: “The law is a spider’s web in which every fly is caught, and a bumblebee breaks through and flies away. ” What do I mean? Whoever had the opportunity to go out of the country or to avoid serving a military term in some other way took advantage of it, regardless of what had been done at that time with certain legal norms. The other, primarily the children of workers, peasants and other materially weak citizens of this country, weak families, ultimately, fearing the law, fearing the application of the law, responded to a military call, carried out their civic and every other, moral obligation and were in the Army of the Republic of Serbia as much as they had at that time, whether six or nine months. Therefore, I think that in the next period, when laws like this are passed, regardless of whether it is a law on amnesty or some other law that can cause certain differences in application, doubtless, non-compliance, it should be a little bit more taken into account that public debate is being conducted at some higher levels, that is to say that more people participate in it and that the law is then widely accepted, not only by those who support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but also by those who criticise each law in one way or another. To conclude, the SPS - JS Parliamentary Group will support this bill in principle and in the final text, but we ask that in future, when laws like this are passed, however a little more complex are observed by things and the consequences of passing such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36190	Five minutes and forty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is by MP Ljubisa Petkovic, followed by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36191	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, I listened very carefully to the Minister, Ms Malovic, about the explanations to which the faces relate to this last amnesty. I noticed that amnesty primarily applies to persons who have knowingly violated the Law on the Serbian Army. Minister Ms. Malovic made it clear that amnesty refers to persons who avoided the military's obligation to go abroad, then, by incapacitating, escape from the military and committed other crimes. I am convinced that the proposal for the adoption of this law is just one will for the ruling majority. The Serbian Radical Party asks the question – what is the state's attitude towards the persons who committed certain crimes and those who regularly served the military deadline and carried out their legal obligations? The Serbian Radical Party with full right raises the question – are they justified and what are the reasons why one number of debtors forced them to avoid a military obligation? The minister mentioned that a number of our citizens living abroad are unable to respond to a military call. I agree with that, but it primarily applies to persons who do not have legal residence abroad and who have deliberately committed a crime expecting to be freed by such a law one day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me just go back to the near past for a moment, when a large number of military officials have avoided participating in the defence of the country, and especially from nothing caused by the aggression of the NATO Pact. What are mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, or children of the son, brother or father who laid down his life in the defense of the country today, when you make such laws?- I'm sorry. Don't you think you're sending a bad message to new generations and taking part in encouraging new crimes against the Serbian Army? In addition, the adoption of this law is knowingly done, by order of the West, to the definitive breaking of Serbia's military and the weakening of the battleground, thus definitely calling the country's defence into question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36192	It was used two minutes and fifty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic, followed by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Excuse me, MP. Obviously, the MP's unit isn't right. Would you like to reapply? Just press the registration key. It's okay now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36193	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have a very short bill, the law on amnesty. My opinion is that the amnesty law needs Serbia and the G17 Group of MPs plus will support it in the voting day. By its legal nature, amnesty is an act of political will of the highest state authorities, and it concerns the abolition of the state's right to certain individuals who are bound by a certain penalty, or another criminal sanction. Amnesty always, in every society, needs to ease or solve a particular social or political problem. Amnesty versus individual has different results. These results can be a release from prosecution, completely or partly a release from the execution of a certain sentence, to replace the fine, to give an individual or a group of people a certain rehabilitation, to eliminate all or some legal consequences and to abolish certain security measures. Given all that the National Assembly has adopted so far, laws in the area of criminal law, laws relating to military and material obligations, the National Defence Strategy, the Army Strategy, has come the time to pass such a law. Who does this law apply to? It refers to individuals, faces – for a period of 18. 4. In 2006, when the old Amnesty Act came into effect, to this day – which tried to avoid military obligation and made certain crimes out of that area. The amnesty proposed here involves the release from prosecution, the release from the execution of the sentence and the erasure of the convictions for those persons who during this period have committed an act or there is a reasonable doubt that they have avoided a military obligation. Why is this law important? It's important because over the past few years, a large number of people living abroad have been knowingly or unconsciously avoiding military obligations. The figure is estimated to be between 4,000 and 5,000 people, which will be amnesty. What is also important is that respect for all the legal rules and norms adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which are important for the functioning of our country and are also related to the diaspora, will allow young people from the diaspora to come to Serbia uninterrupted at any time they want to. It should be said that our diaspora is very important for our society, because today in the diaspora we have about three million people. What is also important is that the state of Serbia annually only has about five billion dollars from the diaspora on behalf of the diaspora, and that is the largest foreign investment that merges into our country every year. On the other hand, there is no need to ignore the fact that our diaspora has invested in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The data shows that up to now about five hundred million dollars has been invested in the establishment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises by our diaspora, and around 22,000 people are working in these companies today. This law creates conditions that young people who have proven themselves abroad, which means that scientists, researchers, doctors or work in some large international companies, may improve their status in the country they live in, but also create legal opportunities to come to Serbia without interference, if they want to, and to help in fact the development of our society. It is to us, believe me, both from the position of transfer of knowledge and technology and from the position of investment in the economy and attracting investment, very important. Looking at all these aspects, I think this law is necessary and will bring about a better improvement for our diaspora, for these young people, but in principle for the whole society. The G17 plus parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36194	Five minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. In order, MP Zika Gojkovic. He's not there. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36195	According to some discussions, it's just a shame this law wasn't passed before. Of course, that is what those who believe are currently under the influence of this military obligation and responsibility for failing to fulfil the military obligation are under 5,000 scientists abroad. However, there are not so many scientists abroad. What is much more important for this discussion is that we, practically with a number of these laws on amnesty in continuity from 7 October 2000 to today, have a reward for not fulfilling our obligations to the state. When such a message comes from this home, that no one will be responsible unless they fulfil their obligation to the state, then we are not surprised at what is happening on the streets, in businesses, in companies that are still working, then we do not need to be surprised by the strikes, or the demonstrations, or what is called the loss of dignity and the sense of hopelessness, with which our citizens are born. The message from here is that the law should not be obeyed, and the state will respond adequately. Now let's take what those who have proposed this law have announced for the past few months in the media. In addition to this bidding on how many people are under attack by this law, it is interesting that the public prosecutor is advertised in December of the month and tells the competent state authorities – do not apply the regulations, do not act on the warrants, do not act on the charges, everything is fine. The message is: do not apply the law. Why? Because they know this law will be passed, it's only a matter of days. Then the question arises whether there should even be provisions of Article. 394, 395, 396, 397, and 399. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia? Why didn't you propose to delete this from the Criminal Code? For the sake of the public, it is only necessary to know that the penalties threatened by these criminal acts are, say: 394. Member - one year, qualified form for three years, second qualified eight years, third qualified twelve years; 395th member - threatened punishment a year; 396. Member - year and five; 397. Member - five years, eight years; 399th member - from one to twelve years. There is also this one that has been skipped, the 398th member, and I think that the representatives of this ministry and the spokesmans of this ministry have also committed this criminal act in public appearances, which is illegal release from military service. By the way, someone's off the hook. Of course, it's in the concept of modern patriotism. We with modern patriotism need to respond to something called global challenges, key threats and strategic goals. If that's the definition of this government, then, please, we didn't have to pass such a law on military, labour and material obligations. Then why is the military obligation prescribed? Why didn't you throw her out? In a year's time, though, you're announcing that we're going to go to some new concept of volunteer professional military, and we're leaving this territorial defense force. In order to justify this, the reasons that are, above all, an insult to the state and to the embarrassment and shame of the promoter are used. It is said that there are a lot of people who are not able to fulfill their public obligations because of their personal interests. This would be approximately: you know, the Prime Minister cannot come from the position of the Government because he has obstacles to personal interests (so happens), or the President of the Republic has very expressed personal interests and cannot come from public positions, cannot represent public interests. Of course we recognize that style. modern patriotism. It's just that no one understands what modern patriotism is. According to the practice that is at work, we see that the family is being violated, we see that the nation is being violated, we see that religion is being broken, we see that all attributes of something that individually determines an individual and a group that has something in common are being violated. At the same time, EULEX is making institutions of an independent Kosovo state. Two and a half thousand armed soldiers will be. With us – decommissioning, and that, you can see, in continuity. And, of course, according to some scenario. The scenario is famous, it is the new security policy of the EU and NATO Pact, which has its own methodology in so-called. a peaceful preconflict period and a postconflict period. The Pacification of one space, that people are simply sick and tired of the idea that they should meet their obligations to their country. If the obligations are laid down in the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligations, then the Criminal Code, which prescribes sanctions for non-compliance with those obligations, would have to be applied. If you amnest someone for a crime for which the sentence of five or eight years has been threatened, I'm sorry, please, you will in the next phase amnesty of Saric, you will in the next phase amnesty of others. Well, it's the same degree of social danger, because the same sentence is prescribed for the same duration. What depends on this court of law? Of whether someone will put their personal interests above public interests. That's your criterion. That's when the tycoons were building a government, when the government was feudally divided and each sector was following something of its own. Obviously, those who want to dominate the diaspora said: this is because of the diaspora. First of all, it's not about diaspora, it's about people who have gone abroad to avoid military obligations. They're not scientists, as someone represents them, they're washers in cafes, just like we do here. You release them. I agree, but is that some kind of liquid, is that trending with something that's modern? I don't know why the state of Israel or the state of Switzerland wouldn't be a model for Serbia. According to population numbers, we're about there by territory. The military obligation is general in Switzerland, subject to men, no amnesty. As in the state of Israel, which struggles in its own way for a place under this sun, there is also a military obligation, both men and women, two or three years serve. No one remembers to think about the obligation to the state being suppressed in some way, especially by a proven perpetrator of the criminal act being amnesty. He deserves forgiveness, forgiveness from the whole society! The whole society forgives him for not fulfilling his legal obligation. Then these "genials" they say to the money -- diaspora draws money, so this way, by amnesty, some money will come. Here, to suggest "genials" that are "lighted" to steam, there is a better way to attract money. You know that the current tax haven, the offshore companies and the offshore locations have to cut their business, because all the countries of this world have seen that it's some kind of crime. Let me remind you, Mrs Malovic, there is currently a tax amnesty procedure in Italy. He started October last year. It's the third tax amnesty. What is it based on? To pay all Italians back money from abroad, to launder the money legally by paying six to seven percent of the tax on the asset. That way, according to the first data, 80 billion euros were returned to Italy. On that basis, their budget has taken four billion euros. If you care so much about the diaspora money, why don't you take the tax amnesty, but go to this one? So you're still making up 5,000 scientists, 5,000 scientists didn't respond to a call to fulfill their obligation. Mrs. Malovic, the information came from your ministry... I see Gašo Knezevic taught you at the university. Well, he also applied the Law on the University; he applied the bill to Vojislav Seselj. I see you too... The bill has not yet entered the assembly procedure, and you are already making statements as if it were all over – you are free to cross the border, there are no warrants, nothing, no procedures will be conducted, everything is fine. What message is that? The message is that the law is applied "a kilo" and the message is that we can apply what has not yet been adopted in the National Assembly. Well, if something is actually applied, and it's not adopted in the National Assembly, then you don't respect the National Assembly. How is that possible? I guess the law is passed, so it goes into effect, so it's applied. The message from your ministry, however, not yours, but that famous "response" Homen, is – we have agreed with the prosecution and with the courts, there are no proceedings. How is that possible? Just to remind you, this same secretary of yours said -- military bonds from the diaspora that regularly delayed military service by requesting diplomatic and consular representations of Serbia in countries where they live can come to Serbia whenever they want, without fear of being prosecuted and arrested. What does that mean? That the state has already shown some mildness to these people. Which people? According to those who showed basic respect for their country, so they came and said – I am unable to fulfil my military obligation now, I have some urgent jobs, so diplomatic and consular representations have been informed. There's this group that didn't inform anyone about anything or which two requirements were respected, so the third group had to be regulated. How will you agree to civil service to the army? You don't have an answer. Just to remind you, Mrs. Malovic, it is not enough to take money from abroad to make some reforms. You are now suffering the consequences of judicial reform. They took the money, they took the computers, we have European standards. So, when's the hearing, when's the search? Chaos! But, quietly, you take on that fire with Mr. Ristic. That's your problem. We told you what we told you a year and a half ago. However, what are these threats with us? Terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, government failure. Europe and your NATO pact say - the fourth key threat to stability is the failure of the state. Do you think this law on amnesty demonstrates the success of the state? No, you prove that everything is possible in this country, but not by law, but by the will of him who exercises power. The exercise of power is able to present everything to modern patriotism. What is modern patriotism? There used to be someone who said it was patriotism for him when you could take a passport and travel to the world. He was the only one with it, and he got hooked after the Democratic Party, and that's all they're saying. Ma'am, the fifth threat is organized crime. That was in 2003. Do you know what happened in 2009? The order of these security threats has changed, so now the first fight against illegal arms trafficking for mass destruction is in second place international terrorism, but it is increasingly becoming something called organised crime. Regional conflicts are no longer a threat, now cybercrime has come to their place. The problems they can cause relate to traffic, information and energy supply. New areas of interest: energy, climate change and the ban on the spread of nuclear energy. Europe is mostly demilitarized. They boast of European security policy, he says – in a classical sense, we are only able to react in third areas. But it has now been reduced, after this "excursion" called Iraq and Afghanistan. Former Secretary General Roberts said the other day – NATO is on the verge of collapse. The conflict between the EU and the NATO Pact, two, at the chance of a complementary, security policy, is on fire. The newly admitted EU members would rather support the United States in security and foreign policy than allegedly a common EU policy. Where are you taking us? What do you promote for us as a value? Do you know what would happen to a bill like this in Switzerland or Israel? You shouldn't go outside the O.R. You can interpret these words of mine any way you want, but in this part of it, you're violating a very important element of the definition of the state, and that's the possibility of someone defending themselves and ensuring safety in their territory. What did you bring the army down to? What did you bring down the security structures on? It has its own prehistory, starting with this Mrs. Nicole Bol, who announced something in 1988, through this Claire Short, when the reform was so-called. The security sector has become a fashion trend for destroying countries. That's why we raise our voice. We're a small nation, a small country. If we don't protect ourselves, if we don't organize ourselves, then anyone can do whatever they want with us. They're already doing whatever they want with us. That's why we raise our voice. You've violated every possible measure. You've gone beyond all possible tolerable principles. You run the country, you try to make sure that this country exists all over its territory, not for a chair, survival in power. You accept everything and everything. Of course no one from the West will criticize you for these measures. He doesn't want to. Why? They said in 2008 -- the Western Balkans are stable. How? Eulex forms a state, a NATO pact forms a state. It's all broken down in here. There's no challenge, no threat. It's all done. There are people in power who promote modern patriotism. What are the consequences of modern patriotism? The country is collapsing. The functions of the state are collapsing. That's what we're talking about. We're critical of this, and we criticised you both in 2000, both in 2006 and 2001, when you released those criminals, 25% reduced prison sentences. We've always criticised you for this kind of amnesty and said what would be the ultimate consequence of having that kind of amnesty. Irresponsibility. How can we talk about a society that demonstrates this degree of irresponsibility? You call on people to be irresponsible – you will not suffer legal consequences. If you don't suffer legal consequences where a fine is prescribed from one year to twelve years, I'm not surprised that you amnesty tomorrow and these, as you call them today, tycoons and those who are headed by organized crime and these who haunt the whole world. Take care, this country must maintain its dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36196	It's been used 20 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is by MP Zoran Ostojic, followed by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36197	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the LDP supports the law on amnesty, because at the heart of our policy we've always been human. The dignity of the state is safeguarded by a policy that makes the country into which people come from different sides, because it is better in that country than in their countries of origin, and irresponsible politics makes it from the country where people go from. We remember all of the 1990s and these Balkan wars at the end of the 20th century in these areas, which from one army, third or fourth in Europe, with 250,000 officers and soldiers made six or seven armies, and 5,000 people have not wanted to serve the army since 2006 alone. When we remember the beginning of these events from the beginning of the 1990s, Vukovar and all that, it is quite clear; when we remember the events after October 5th and the death of soldiers, by Topcider, which was spoken of by Vesna Pesic, Leskovci, it is clear why these people did not want to join the army. The real security challenge can only be answered with collective security. We in the Liberal Democratic Party are confident that this government – if not this one, then certainly the next, in which LDP will lead the main word – will implement such a policy. We are surrounded by NATO countries and only collective security can guarantee Serbia's security, preserve dignity. Five thousand people cannot come to the country because they are being prosecuted, people who have a job or study abroad and certainly we as MPs have to take care of them. They're people who might want to bring capital or knowledge here, and they can't come. I hope that after this law on amnesty we will adopt at least one more who will amnesty those who will avoid serving the military term from the adoption of this law to the abolition of compulsory recruitment and compulsory service and suspension, as the defence minister said, and that we will move on to the professional army. Someone here is calling for tradition. Well, tradition is a nice thing, but the world has changed over the past hundred years. A hundred years ago, at the beginning of the 20th century and in the first Balkan wars, women had no right to vote, there was no Internet, there was a different time. We must accept the challenge of time. The challenge of time says: being a soldier is a job like any other, with the difference that anyone who defines it has only one firm where he can work because every country has only one army. That army is better than an army of recruits. This has also been shown by all the countries in the environment and going to meet the Atlantic integration and collective security system, which is provided by the NATO Pact, certainly that Serbia must also introduce a professional army. I hope the defence minister will keep his promise that this will happen during 2011 and then these stories will be groundless. There will always be people who want to do this job. I hope that this professional army will have a much greater reputation than this army now or the one that this present one has come out of. Let's just remember the beginning of the wars, the 1990s, the operation in Vukovar. You can read it in the book of Bora Jovic, when General Adzic referred to Kadjevic and Milosevic, Boris Jovic said the following sentence: "There is a disaster in Vukovar. The roller coasters have completely escaped. It is about orthodox Serbian nationalists." The confusion that existed at the time led to the fact that these 5,000 people would not join this army either. Let us adopt this law on amnesty and allow them to be free citizens, to contribute to this society. Let's introduce a professional army. It's the right path to the security and dignity of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36198	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is Mr. Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I'm sorry you haven't decided to get involved in this debate a little bit more. I don't think that's enough of your opening statement, because whoever followed closely could have noticed, maybe the citizens in front of the small screens weren't, but we who were preparing for the debate on this law certainly are, that in most of your presentation, you actually only read what was already delivered to the MPs through the reasoning of the law. That, at the very least, is not correct on your part. It may be according to representatives of the ruling coalition, who probably haven't even read this bill, and they will vote because of party discipline for the law, but we expected you to answer these questions that previous speakers and authorised representatives of political parties have asked during the debate. It is clear, first of all, that this law may have been called a law amending the Code of Criminal Code, because no one can justify the existence of these members of the law for which you are now giving amnesty unless there has been a sanction for such a crime for a period of more than ten years. Then the whole question arises, is there still a social danger from this act, do we still want to protect these social values that are being protected and protected by rewriting these crimes or are we giving up on these social values? You didn't answer how much there is, which would be appropriate and necessary to know that we would engage in some kind of debate, persons who are legally convicted of these crimes for which you are now giving amnesty, to see if anyone is truly convicted, how convicted they are, whether someone is being punished, to see what a criminal policy was to sanction these crimes. It might allow us to take a closer look at what's really going on here, the extent of which is the problem of avoiding military obligations. You said that there are about 5,000 criminal proceedings and that they are mainly against those who are abroad, but the question is, what about those who are in Serbia and who are avoiding military service here? When you formed voter lists for abroad, very few people were enrolled. So where do you get the possibility that against 5,000 people, who are allegedly militaryly capable, who are at that age that we expect them to respond to a military obligation, you're committing criminal acts? It's really amazing. If you have enrolled 20,000 or 30,000 people in the voter lists abroad, and there are 6.5 million voters in Serbia, an unmatched majority of those avoiding military obligations would have to be in Serbia. How did this happen, or is there a state policy that against those who are in Serbia, does not lead to criminal proceedings, but only leads against those you know that our judiciary cannot come to them? Mrs. Malovic, did you put out any warrants for those who were obliged to come to the service of the military or did they voluntarily move away during the service of the military deadline and flee abroad, which, in accordance with the Criminal Code, is a serious offense? Is there a warrant against any of the perpetrators of these crimes? If not, let's see why not. What are the criteria on which you decide against which perpetrators you will call an arrest warrant and against which you will not? The only criterion can be the height of the threatened sentence, i.e. the social danger of that part. This is practically the third time you've amnestied those... Although it would be more correct to say it's an amnesty and abolization law, because it's legally two institutes. Amnesty refers to those who have already been convicted by law, while the abolization refers to those against whom the criminal proceedings are under way, and even those who have committed the crime, but who have not even been initiated, for whom there is a possibility to initiate the procedure. You're all the categories amnesty and abolize. You could have called this law more appropriate. As far as the arguments you've given for the adoption of this law are concerned, I must note that it is completely pointless and that three quarters of this text absolutely do not refer to the reasons for the law being passed. You're saying that amnesty is one of the institutes of criminal law, etc. The fact that the amnesty is a criminal law institute is not the reason for the law. The reasons for the adoption of this law are primarily political and only in this small paragraph, although half of this reduced party has been separated for reasons only, one single sentence has essentially been devoted to some quasi-based reasons and has said that "in our country new legal solutions have been adopted in the area of criminal law and international standards adopted in the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So what? What does that have to do with amnesty? You continue to say: “... as well as new legal solutions regarding the implementation of the military obligation." So you've got a new legal solution, so that means it's not working before. Is there any legal continuity in this country? When you pass a new tax code, why don't you say that the previous law no longer applies, so whoever didn't pay the tax doesn't matter? Therefore, there must be continuity in every country and the state must be serious in the implementation of every law, especially when it comes to criminal laws and especially when it comes to serious criminal offences for which a multiannual prison sentence is threatened. Furthermore, the question arises why are you bringing amnesty for these very crimes, why not other crimes, why not some crimes? Recently, when you passed the Traffic Safety Act, you prescribed extremely high penalties, so today it seems worse that with earphones you cross the pedestrian crossing than as a minister to spend billions contrary to the Budgetary System Act, without any control. Finance Minister Mrs Dragutinovic admitted that she does not know how some 13 billion were spent. But for those heavy acts, instead of criminal charges, you file criminal charges, so someone will be punished, you might think, with five, six, or ten thousand dinars, or dragonically, someone with twenty, because a billion or two spent the opposite of the law. This law is aimed at further separation, above all, by the military, and hence the entire Republic of Serbia. The question arises whether there is any excuse that we still have an army. You announced, you've been announcing for a long time now for 2011, and I looked at the stenograms of what you were saying in 2006, then you guaranteed that we would have a fully professional army and that citizens would no longer serve the military term by 2010. Don't tell us about the high military rating. The smaller the army, the higher it is. Why is the military rating supposed to be up? Well, because she's gone. You say it's a high response. What does that mean? Does this mean that Serbia is able to respond to any threats? Are we, like Croatia, capable of fulfilling our role as guarantor of the Dayton Agreement? Or does that mean you're full of theaters, foster homes, and I don't even know which institutions? You are an honorable Serb army, once proud of the people, once a pride and an honor to go into the army, turned into some kind of army of people who change diapers, who serve theaters, play couriers and serve civilians in institutions that no one in their right mind would ever think they needed a civil service of the military. This law must be seen absolutely much wider than what you are trying to present in the context of the overall social situation in which Serbia is today. It must also be observed within the Srebrenica resolution. How do you think someone is defending the state tomorrow if, on the one hand, Serbian heroes, those who have defended the state, you deliver to The Hague tribunal, on the other hand you declare Serbs to the genocide people, and on the third hand, those who have avoided this most sacred commitment to the state, you declare those who have turned out to be the smartest, amnesty and you say, "It doesn't matter," you come back as if nothing happened? You've been creating such a climate for ten years. It is incomprehensible that he cares more about those who fled the country at a time when the state was threatened than those who stayed in the country and who defended their doorsteps and other people’s doorsteps! You say -- how does one who can't come to Serbia for the New Year feel? How do you think those whose fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters died defending their country? How do military reservers who walked, protested and striked these winters too, seek to exercise their rights? Do you have the moral right to pass an amnesty law on those who have avoided a military obligation without even having fulfilled their financial obligations to those who have defended the state? Not to mention the moral obligation, the gratitude that must be expressed at every turn, the social acceptance of these people, which exists in countries in an environment that makes their warriors heroes, even if they are criminals and villains, and you make evildoers and criminals of our heroes. Did you estimate that the military minister, Mr Sutanovac, had to sit there, what effect would this have on the military of the Republic of Serbia's army? You passed a law that was first amended by those who were deserting until 2000, and that was until October 6, and then you passed a law that applied to those who avoided the military obligation from 7 October 2000 to 17 April 2006, so today you match the period from 18 April 2006, until the date of the entry into force of this law. You in continuity for two decades do not protect crimes against the military, and crimes against the Republic of Serbia's Army are essentially crimes against the very Republic of Serbia. I guess that's something that everybody knows today. I understand that you're sending a message that maybe it doesn't matter that even the most state leadership didn't serve the military, so it doesn't have to be the president of the state, it doesn't have to be the minister to serve the army, it doesn't have to be the mayor to serve the army, but you'll allow it, I don't think it's normal. Compare yourself with Switzerland. You appreciate it very much, and you like to compare yourself to that country. There no one who has not served the army can advance in the service of the state. One of the basic motives to become an officer is that. If you have already decided on this step, to amnesty, the question arises why have you not decided to remain a sanction for those who have undoubtedly committed a serious crime, which is why you have defined yourself to delete from the criminal record that someone has committed this and committed this crime and that he has been convicted or being prosecuted in the course of the proceedings? You could have, like some other states, prescribed a provision that one who avoided a military obligation could not permanently be employed by state authorities, such as some European countries that did so. Why are we worse than them? Do you think those states that NATO members need more troops than we do? Can anyone today claim that Serbia does not need an army, and by passing such laws, you are just killing any possibility that tomorrow someone might stand on the defensive of the country, unless, God forbid, there is such a need? None of us want to fight, but the most powerful state in the world, the United States, has the largest army, although when you look at territorial and geostrategic, they are least endangered, but they have interest and soldiers on every inch of the globe. There's an interest everywhere they're going to defend. And for Serbia, which is struggling to keep Kosovo and Metohija within its borders, for Serbia, under which other neighbouring countries have territorial claims, you are sending a message that we do not need the army and that Serbian citizens should not serve the army. Today, some tell us, here, and today from one of the ruling parties we had this message about March 9th, that Serbia is no longer in Kosovo and Metohija, that Kosovo and Metohija do not belong to Serbia, because there, my God, there is a percentage of Serbs living there. Do you know, gentlemen, what is the situation in other border municipalities in Serbia? Less and less Serbs and even Serbian citizens live in Presevo, Bujanovac, Surdulica, Bosilegrad, Dimitrovgrad, Montenegro, the White Palanca and Piroth. All Serbia's border municipalities are slowly dying. Not that you freed them from the army, but that you freed them over the past ten years and from the population. Will there be any Vuk Draskovic who will say tomorrow -- neither is Bela Palanka Serbia, nor is Bosilegrad Serbia, there lives two or three percent of Serbian living? You've repeated several times that one of the reasons for law-making and caring about those abroad, as you say, is not to lose their jobs, not to lose a year in college. What about those in Serbia? I guess in Serbia, someone who's young has the right to work, so doing military service can distract him? Also, someone in Serbia may lose a year in college, but, let me, we also proudly went to the military and lost that year in college, and that was something completely normal. In Serbia, the one who didn't serve the army was not considered normal, so he couldn't even get married, let alone... Here, for example, I served the army from mid - 1993 to mid - 1994, and there were some, although there was a lack of army at that time, then there were wars... I went to law school and went to military school. That's when a few of my guys, let's say, were trying to get back. These were people from rural parts of Serbia. They'd rather die and die than come home without a military service, because they'd be wondering tomorrow about the village who they were. Who would give their daughter tomorrow for one who neither the army is capable of serving? Because the military in all countries of the world only serves those who are perfectly medically capable. Amnesty has become a rule by passing this law. It's something that's definitely been determined. You used to talk about wars, allegedly why you passed laws on amnesty, so someone was running because of the evil Milosevic regime. Today with his worst students, you're sitting in government. When you look at the 2006 discussions, those who today support the law were then explicitly against the law that was passed in April 2006. Amnesty can't be the rule. Amnesty can only be an exception and amnesty can only be determined in exceptional cases. You're just saying you don't need an army. The law will be passed in ten days and one of the crimes for which you are giving amnesty is the arbitrary absence and escape from the Republic of Serbia's Army. The question arises how do you plan to maintain discipline in barracks for the next ten or fifteen days, until the law is passed? What will prevent anyone who is currently serving a military term from saying nicely – you know what, people, I'm going home for 15 days, 10 or 15, I'm going to watch the Assembly, I'm going to watch when there's going to be a vote on this bill, so when I get close, I'm going to come back and tell me you can't tell me anything, because they're going to fall under this category of those who get amnesty? There are many ways in which you destroy the Army of the Republic of Serbia, destroy morality and honor, which are the most important ethical categories in which the army is founded. Some say, "If honor goes away, if honor is lost, the army is lost." One way to humiliate the army is to honor officers who don't deserve them at all. One such example was awarded an officer's saber to Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas of an NGO. The sword is a symbol of military calling, virtue, fearlessness and strength. As a symbol of officer's honor and dignity, the sword (or saber, as it is called) was introduced into all armies of the world and has almost cult value. The official saber in our army had an extremely long tradition and special significance, and all the esteemed, famous Serbian dukes were not separated from their saber for the rest of their lives. Some said that if they knew when they were taking all the denials that officer sabers were looking for, what moral and honorable demands, that maybe they wouldn't take it in their hands. Serbia is the only country in the world where the officer's sword is located in free sale and the company "Statuss style" is selling as if it were a kilo of meat, as if it were perfume, a pen or some other gift that might be convenient! Saba is a special item and symbol of an officer's call and, in accordance with professional military ethics, no one outside the officer's crust can be given or delivered. Sabre can only be worn by an officer's escarpment and no one can put it next to him on some sort of cloth, leather, or any other relationship. Unfortunately, there was no possibility of reacting at the time, but it was extremely degutant to watch Dragan Gilas receive this saber, although it is known that it is sabotaging absolutely by nothing. Now I'm going to quote a few quotes from Mr. Radet's book, that is, Colonel Radet Rajic, who wrote a trilogy about honor. This is one of those books. He was also a lecturer at the Military Academy. It would have been good if you'd read this book, too. It would be good if this book were in a library in every military school, because then you might understand differently and judge what you are and what you are not to do. Then you might realize how important it is to protect your country, and in that case we probably wouldn't even have the chance to criticize the laws of this kind. According to Mr Rajic, "the oldest and most significant form of official honor is a military honor. It is particularly important because its ideal is mostly directed and related to the vital interests of the nation, country and country. Its basic ideal observed in ethical terms is the country's ideal, which is usually expressed in defense of the freedom and honor of the people, i.e. freedom of the country. In conquering armies, you can't talk about this kind of ideal. Military service is characterized by the fact that it is tied to its state and army, in which it swears allegiance. In that sense, an officer who works in one army cannot go to another country and seek a job there as an officer. Every soldier is required to serve a military term in his country. This is what all states predicted by their constitution as a national, civil, patriotic duty, law, but also a commitment. In all the armies of the world, soldiers take an oath of allegiance. All these oaths require loyalty and loyalty to death. The military honor, therefore, in contrast to other official honors, imposes a sacrificial fulfillment of its duties in the most difficult conditions in which state and people can be found at all. The next essential feature is that the military service is in principle performed only by a healthy male population, through professional service, the service of a regular military term and the subsequent obligation of a military official in the reserve. This obligation was established by a military oath, and the military oath by its nature does not cease after the military service, but has importance for the rest of its life. Penalties for issuing military oaths are much stricter than for other professions or services. Betraying a military oath is always the most shameful act that can be done in the military, especially in the war. She's being punished on a regular basis. On the other hand, recognitions for the heroic acts of war in the form of medals, and especially medals of honor, have always caused admiration and respect in the Serbian people. In the last few years, i.e. in the last few decades of the 20th and early 21st centuries, a part of our people has given up and distanced themselves from its roots, congratulating traditions, sanctifiers of Serbian, large Serbs, the abundance of heroes, brave generations, famous battles, Kosovo vows, psychic ethics and the suffering of Serbia. For a lesson, and in the name of honor, not to repeat, as Antonija Đurić warns, that error is closer to us than reality, a riddle from salvation, blindness from clear vision, fog from pure horizon, that only we can be closer to people of unknown roots and untested past than people with the name, last name and middle letter of father and mother, that only we can give faith for infidelity and mind for folly. Therefore, whenever as a people, we consider honor as moral, ethical, and in particular vowed obligations insufficiently significant, exaggerated and anachronous times, idealistic or empty, we will go into networks of alienity and moral crisis, false values, unbelief, near-moving consciousness, consumer egoism, anal spirit and flabby cosmopolitanism, white-world insemination and political outwitness. But even when honor is suppressed, neglected, or even unsuspected, it will remain an uncompromising guard and observer, critic and judge, orientation and lighthouse, and the path and strength on which we will be able to rely constantly and as such respect. It will always find in the heart, as with other proud and great peoples, decent people, who will do great and patriotic deeds for the universal good, in the name of honor, and for the resurrection of the country." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36200	Thank you. From the time of the parliamentary group, 28 minutes and 50 seconds have been used. The word is Mr. Gjorge Milicevic. The remaining time is twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36201	That's enough, Mr. Novakovic. Dear Presidency, Honored Minister Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amnesty. I'll try to be very brief. I think a lot of that has already been said. The constitutional basis, as well as the reasons for the adoption of this legislative proposal, are very precise and clear in the light of the legislative proposal. I don't want to talk about it, except I'm going to say that they're acceptable to the SPS-JS Parliament Club. What I want to say at the very beginning is that I am convinced (I think that, among other things, it was said in the opening statement by Mrs Malovic) that they were actually at the drafting of this legislative proposal, as I understand it, doing three ministries – the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Diaspora. That is what is perfectly logical, bearing in mind, above all, the contents and reasons for adopting this legislative proposal. On the other hand, while respecting the views, suggestions, suggestions sent by my colleagues from the SPS-JS parliamentary club, I would like to point out once again what they have concluded – that the SPS-JS MP club in the voting day will support this legislative solution, that is, the Amnesty Law proposal, because we believe that we should give the opportunity to young people who have not regulated their obligation and who are suspected of committing a criminal act, from 18 April 2006 until the date of entry into force of the Law, to finally resolve their status, and in accordance with the law. With this legislative proposal, the state has given a certain hand, given opportunity to all young people, our citizens who have not regulated the military obligation, to do so in accordance with the law. We from the SPS-JS Parliament Club support this intention. Essentially speaking, this legislative proposal, as is said, involves the release from criminal responsibility, but not the obligation to serve a military term. As noted among other things, it actually means that anyone who has not responded to the call or has left the state can return to the state, he will not be prosecuted for violations, but the military obligation remains and will have to be regulated during a certain period of time, because it is regulated by the Law on military, labour and material obligations. We feel that we should do everything in our power to bring young people working in the diaspora back to Serbia, because they can help Serbia in a certain way. We want to believe that there are a number of people who want to come to Serbia, invest in their country, start a business in their country, but have so far not been able to do so because they have not regulated the military obligation. This legal solution is certainly in a certain way and more meaningful, and more cellular and better than what is reality and what we have today, which is the fact that young people do not want to come to Serbia because of their unregulated military obligation and that they are therefore seeking out of their citizenship. Also, keeping in mind what has already been established several times, when it comes to the full capacity of the Ministry of Defence, as well as the announcement of the professionalisation of the military, we believe that this legislative proposal is a good transitional solution in this context. In the opening statement by Ms Malovic, among other things, it was heard, as far as I could see, that there were as many as 154,000 citizens of Serbia living abroad who did not regulate military obligations and were unable to come to their country. We feel that these people should be given a chance, given the opportunity, and we think this is a good proposal to address this issue in the best possible way, in accordance with the law. So, essentially looking at it, I want to end up with two alternatives: either we're going to adopt this bill or we're going to let these people get arrested when they get to their country. We from the SPS - JS Parliament Club are in favour of this first option and will therefore support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36202	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic, followed by Mr. Zika Gojkovic. The remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is fifteen minutes and forty seconds. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36203	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, speaking of this bill on amnesty, I will try to make my humble contribution to the desire and efforts of the SRS to deal seriously with this problem, this serious topic, and to express my political position on the proposal of this law. At the beginning of my presentation, however, I will give a short genealogy of the problem through the prism of the newer Serbian history, focusing on the majority, therefore, the Serbian people, and not slow down any moment, that everything I say about what I will say about the majority people can actually be applied to other peoples in the premises of the former Yugoslavia and now in the areas of Serbia. In one part, Prof. Dr. Laza Kostic writes about this -- Serbs who leave Serbia and accept Yugoslavia not only are not protected from others, he says, in Yugoslav branches, but rather become their favorite topic of attack. Other branches still consider them Serbs. They even separate them from the Yugoslav crowd, according to Professor Kostic, and then kill them as Serbs. So they are, as he says, killed by those who were willing to sacrifice their nationality. He goes on to say, something similar happened to the baptized and demented Jews in Germany. That's right, so it was in not so long ago Serbian history. But this is only one side of the medal, this is just one kind of victim during our recent history. If we just briefly withdraw the parallel with the latest period, today's period, and ask the question to whom today's Serbia, at precisely the moments when it wants to preserve its vital national interests – and the strong army, ladies and gentlemen, are the vital national interests of Serbia, not only Serbia, and every other state, there is no strong state without a strong army – we might be able to best see the answer to this question from just one sentence by Dr Vojislav Seselj from his capital part "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism", where he says, quote: "The darkest forces of this world we Serbs are disturbing that we are Slovenian-like to the Russians, which we are right-wing, nationalally sound, insubordination and that we are building an important geopolitical space where the strategic goals of the great forces intersect." So here we have some other categories of victims, Serbs again. These are the Serbs who, at a certain point in time, have been fully nationalally defined, and that is nationally defined in the full sense of the word. These are the Serbs whose defiance and spite became more unbreakable as the enemy grew stronger, more powerful, more cruel. So again it's about the latest Serbian history. Amongst the first and the second, therefore, among those who have accepted the Yugoslavia and died as Serbs, and those who were at first were immediately nationalally defined were in fact some who may be subject to the law on amnesty, first of some previous laws on amnesty, and here we now have a new law on amnesty. Of course, again, there are other nationalities, other nations, which were also the subject of these laws on amnesty, but here I focus mainly on this problem. So for some crimes against the Serbian Army, this Amnesty Law now provides for amnesty, which includes the release from prosecution, the release from execution, as well as the erasure of convictions. For amnesty, as you say, it can be said that the pure act of political will is the ruling majority. So your act of political will against the perpetrators of crimes, crimes prescribed by the positive legislation of the Republic of Serbia. The motion here is justice by the fact that in the state of Serbia, circumstances have changed, social, economic and political circumstances have changed. Is that so, or is the truth something different? Under direct influence and by the orders of large world centres, the goal is to devalue everything that is national and traditional, that the Serbian people drown in one sea of already enslaved and nationally disoriented and disoriented peoples, to sacrifice their history and their greatest values for the expense of some false, usually financial, promises. The projectors of all this knew that they had a target group in these places, too. The target group is just the subject of some previous amnesty laws, and now this Amnesty Law. So, some consciously, and some unconsciously, some out of fear, and some out of intent, some harmless, some malicious, some out of some irrational fear of serving, and some for the purpose of meeting other people's goals and interests, have become perpetrators of certain crimes that are foreseen by the positive legislation of the Republic of Serbia, such as: avoidance of military obligations, escape from the military, avoidance of military service by incapacitation and other criminal acts. Leaving Serbia, many of these people were not even aware that they would ever be subject to an amnesty law and would ever be amnesty. Many of these young people, Madam Minister, were used or perhaps better to say abused, primarily by a state that doesn't have its own history, which would also end our history. This particular country, I would like to refer to the quote of our Professor Vojislav Seselj, treats us, as he says, as ordinary donkeys. He goes on to say: "She knows that honey is not fed, so often, she beats us very often for disobedience and stubbornness, and sometimes she feeds us carrots when we are obedient." What exactly is he trying to accomplish? To completely destroy and destroy the state organization, to disable the economic system of self-functioning and self-sufficient life, to drive the people astray with empty promises, to bring down the morale of our people, to completely destroy national values and, ultimately, to remove the political authority that thinks differently. Through this project and the bill's project, they kind of want to combine black with white, combine and reconcile what is hard to reconcile, to awaken a sense of pain in a part of the Serb people, where war wounds are very difficult and have not yet healed. At the same time, they want to awaken a sense of justice or justice in another part of our people, whom they want to show that it is their act of goodwill, their political will toward them. The seeds of discord in this will be sown, and the harvest is expected only later. They'd like to destroy our army. According to them, it would be best if our army completely disappeared. They'd like every desertion to be declared a patriotic act. I ask you, Madam Minister, in some other countries, is the escape from the army, the escape from the armed forces, the non-serving and the avoidance of the military term considered a patriotic act, in any country to which you are called? Is that called desertion or some other name? Ladies and gentlemen, desertion is not rewarded anywhere in the world. Here, as theoretically, and perhaps not only theoretically, but very practically, it raises another question. Many of these young people who, during this period of reference to this bill of amnesty, have committed some crime during one period of their lives provided for in the positive legislation of the RS are now mature, adults; many of them have created their families, many of them have provided their existence and the existence of their families. The state certainly has a precise record, we've heard from you how many criminal cases are being conducted in relation to these persons. However, I ask you, Madam Minister, could it not have been considered and predicted (maybe not by this law, perhaps some others) that you, the ruling majority, by the state, those people who forgive this criminal act that is provided for in the positive legislation of the RS also respond to some of their acts of goodwill? Madam Minister, you know very well that in Serbia there are many homeless people, many people with disabilities from past wars; in Serbia there are indeed many families that do not have their own property, living in conditions that are not worthy of man. Was it necessary to think a little bit about these people? Could it not, as my example, consider that such two or three people, who will be the subject of this amnesty law, do something for these homeless people on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and these are well placed there? Couldn't at least the two or three have built or bought one, the smallest house for them to take care of? This would show as the ruling majority that you are applying the law, that you are applying regulations not selectively, but towards all of them the same. This would show that you are concerned about how those who have committed a crime in one period of their lives, and you have, as you say, forgiven them for this crime, forgive them, but thus show your concern for these others, for these homeless people who are so much in the state of Serbia. But by selectively applying the law, by giving amnesty to some who have committed a crime, and here you have very little concern or concern about people who have no property, their homes, who, without their own guilt, show what kind of politics you run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36204	Thank you, too. The time of the SRS Parliamentary Group has been used. The word is Mr. Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36205	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to remind you that today 19 years since 9 March 1991, the days when Vuk Draskovic and SPO, along with the citizens of Belgrade and those who were in Belgrade on that day, fought against the regime of Slobodan Milosevic to fight for freedom and democracy. The answer to the naked people was tanks. I would sincerely like some of my colleagues this 19-year-old, to say, to use the mention as one mirror in which we will all look together and see how far we have strayed from the struggle for the values we have fought for in the 1990s. When we talk about the law on amnesty, much is said positively. And as my predecessors, I don't want to repeat myself, I'll just try to get what's most interesting and important when it comes to this law. Of course, the SPO will support this law in the voting day. The passing of this law, which was jointly worked by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Diaspora and the Ministry of Defence, will successfully withdraw criminal charges or suspended lawsuits against those who have not been legally delayed by military obligation, with 30 or more years of age. The adoption of this law is, in some ways, a logical trail of events towards full professionalisation of the military, which is expected in 2011, but also another indicator of good co-operation between the ministries, as well as the country's determination to change its policies decisively towards the diaspora. Live abroad, we heard in today's debate, about 150,000 young people, most of whom could not serve military service for technical reasons, and that is why they cannot come to Serbia today and visit their families. The adoption of this law will allow these young people to come back to Serbia and visit their families, to see their parents, but hopefully, and that many of them definitely decide to return to Serbia. I say, I hope honestly, because these people represent Serbia's great potential. It is important to know that the amnesty law applies to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, both those living in Serbia and those living abroad. The adoption of the law marks the state's desire to help all young people who have failed to regulate their military obligations and show the country's commitment to support young, hardworking and educated people in the first place. As we had the opportunity to hear positive things about this law, we also had the opportunity to hear those critics of this law. It's mostly the things and the reasons we could have predicted. Yet I must say, I sincerely feel sorry for people who have only hatred, negative feelings and lack of compassion, and they like to call themselves patriots or great Orthodox. I would have told many, unfortunately, most of these people are not in parliament today, but I'll take the opportunity to tell them – when we're already so downgraded by those who, for the most part, couldn't serve the military term, let's ask ourselves if these young people might have left the country because they had escaped, saving a living head from Kosovo and Metohija, did they, in the time of the crisis, go to feed their families, to save and support their parents, seek some new possibility of existence and an opportunity for education from which they could benefit later. One thing's for sure, however we turn and interpret, these young people aren't criminals. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to complete my brief exposure with one personal experience. I was born in 1972, and I belong to that generation that went to war when I was 18, under the age of 19. Of course, no one asked us if we wanted to or not. I thought it was, in a way, my obligation. Since I was a sportsman, I was in the unit that was supposed to go to the battlefield very quickly, and I was a scout – a pedestrian. By some chance, there were two sons of high-ranking officials in that unit in the then-Republic of Serbia. As soon as they felt they needed to go to war, their fathers pulled them off as incompetent and took them to Milan for studies. Of course, the rest of us went through the horror of the war that hit the whole country later. If for nothing else, some of the other reasons we had the chance to hear, not as a politician, but as a man, I will always vote in favour of the amnesty law and to amnesty those young people who have left the country because of their existence, if we have already amnested dads and mom's sons all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36206	Thank you. The word is Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic, and the remaining time of the LDP Group is three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, the LDP will support the amnesty law and will vote for it in the voting day. However, unlike most of the MPs who spoke today, the LDP does not consider this law a technical law, on the contrary, the law considers the Serbian state's value regulation process. Therefore, Madam Minister, according to the Liberal Democratic Party, and in the light of this law, it was necessary to say why people of the 1990s left our country and why they have also avoided serving the army since 2000. Because today the consequences of this war policy of the 1990s, the policies of Slobodan Milosevic, which we are trying to deal with, that is, to break through with all its assets. This law should be just one in a series of steps that should finally end this whole war-of-90s story, but this law should not be just an act of mercy. This law should also constitute an act of apology to those young people who had to leave this country by running away from the consequences I was just talking about. Also, we have to say today that all these young people are not criminals because they left the state and we clearly have to say that the state of Serbia should be a safe house for them, not a safe house for those people who are accused of the most serious war crimes. We also ask the question, Madam Minister, about the state's ability to implement this law, or we expect that there are no unpleasant situations that occurred in the implementation of the two other laws on amnesty, when people who have returned to the country have been arrested at borders and brought into their homes, we expect them not to be the victim of this bureaucracy that we live in today. At the very end, I want to appeal once again before the Liberal Democratic Party to all state authorities about the need for amnesty of General Trifunovic, the man who saved so many young lives. Or that man not only needs to be amnesty, that man needs to get a medal for everything he's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36208	Thank you, Mr. Hajdarevich. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36209	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no doubt today we are passing a useful law, a law that certainly awaits thousands of our fellow citizens around the world, throughout Europe. Today when we pass this law, we hear discussions that can be reduced to two types. One type of discussion is discussions that support, for a reason, the adoption of this law, because the legislator must feel a constant thirst for creating a better man, a more human society, a more rational state and a more just community. Law writers must look far beyond their time, but law writers must pass a law that will calm the past and the present, primarily because of the future. The future in this country belongs, first of all, to the people we leave this country to. It is a very dangerous and wrong sentence that in Serbia the future belongs to young people. For young people, the present belongs, and they have the right to the present. The right to the present also requires certain acts of the state so that these people can exercise their rights. Not so long ago, my colleague, Žika Gojkovic, said it very vividly, lived in one community, in a society where not everyone had the same rights and obligations when it came to defending the country. There were always volunteers in Serbia of other people's blood, there were always people who were ready to place other people's lives on the altar, on the altar, on the altar of martyrdom for their country, but not those God gave them. When I watch the election campaign, so when the sacred words are mentioned: country, patriotism, army, patriotism, patriotism, I see hundreds of people running around on television, who would give 100 lives for Serbia, for Kosovo, for the army, except for this one who has. They don't give him, because they need him so they can enjoy the benefits that came for them at a time when we weren't equal and equal. If we see the law as faith and belief, faith in the law is power, and belief is that the law brings good to everyone and everyone. When we observe criticisms made against the law, it primarily implements “negotine syndrome, ” since it seems that the Danube is very deep in Negotina. There, Timok poured himself out at Zaječar, and many of the local elections in Negotin gave way. I would not further comment on the criticisms of this law from the aspect of unargued criticism, but rather as "negotinic syndrome". We may have used Vlach magic in Negotin, there may be good wine in Negotin, but wine is true. If you can't change the election result, you try to change yourself, not the people, the people are impossible to change. So the people are judges, the people say we do well, the people say such laws are needed by Serbia, including Negotina, who has a large number of people living abroad. There will be more days for the moon, there will be elections in Arangelovac, there is Oplenac, there is good wine also made. So, I'm sure there's a good stone in Arangelovac, and we'll carve out a European guideline for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36210	Thank you. You were the last speaker. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36211	I thank all those who participated in today's discussion, both the MPs who supported this law and those who sent critical tones to the law. The criticisms are the expression of a democratic society and they show you whether you are on the right track; if you are not, that you should change your mind. I have to be honest and say that those criticisms that I heard here today just convinced me of the necessity of passing a law like this. There are two groups of discussions that I have noted, which were present today in this honored home. The first group concerns the legal, professional Corps, and other some general social circumstances, especially if we are talking about the Army of the Republic of Serbia. I'll try to answer all the questions that were asked here today. First of all, I'd like to make one difference between acts of amnesty, pardon, or ablation, since I've seen that there's not a very good understanding of these institutes. At the very beginning, I want to point out that there is no such thing as a separate institute in our criminal legislation, but it is contained in the act of amnesty itself. It's a release from prosecution and, as I said, it's an integral part of the amnesty. As far as pardoning is concerned, it's an act given to a particular person and it can be a release from prosecution, it can represent rehabilitation, it can be a substitute for punishment to someone else or a full release from punishment. The difference is that amnesty is determined by law itself, refers to an undefined number of persons, can be compared to certain crimes, can be all criminal acts, while pardoning is an act of the president who implies and a certain procedure that precedes it. What we have today, as you yourselves know, is amnesty and refers to a body of criminal acts involving the armies of Serbia. First, I want to point out the fact that the law is proposed for a reason of urgency. However, the law was sent to the Assembly on December 17th last year, as there was a view by the government of the Republic of Serbia that the law should be passed before the New Year, when there is a need for people who come from abroad, who are under the threat of such crimes, to come to the country uninterrupted. Since the law was not passed during that period, the reasons for urgency have fallen off and, as you can see, it is on the agenda on 9 March 2010. There were criticisms that were directed at the fact that this law put them in an unequal position compared to those already convicted of this crime. Amnesty is an act of political will. It is directed to a certain period and certainly there is an inequality in relation to those who were once struck by the law or served that sentence to which they were sentenced. Therefore, it is simply such an institute by its nature. I'm sure what we're proposing right now will affect that certain people who have come under the influence of the law are now amnesty, but that doesn't mean that it will have a negative effect in this respect that we're going to send a message that such acts can be done. It will not seem, therefore there is a sanction, so there are also reasons, as I said, for the adoption of the Defence Strategy, which this assembly has recently adopted, and then for amending the Law on the Military, Civil Service, etc. We have defined ourselves as going towards the professionalization of the army, towards reforming the army. It's a sensitive question, a complex question that needs to be implemented over a long period of time, which is done anyway. I also want to look back at the fact that it has been pointed out here that the Ministry of Justice, or the government or state, has affected the fact that criminal proceedings are not being conducted. That's just not true. The justice ministry is not the one who decides whether or not the arrest warrants will be called, it is brought by courts in a legally prescribed procedure, and the Justice Department is conducting warrants, giving consent to an APB. Therefore, we have acted on every warrant that the court has called. I don't think this law will contribute to the fall of military reputation. In addition to the research that has been done lately and the fact that more young people have been applying and enrolling in military academys and enlisting in the military lately. Therefore, these facts deny such criticism. I also cannot agree with statements that there will be a deterioration of the discipline in barracks, for the simple reason I have already stated, as this law was proposed on 17 December last year and so far no negative phenomena have been recorded in this respect in the barracks themselves. That's all I thought I should say. We will listen carefully to every discussion and in particular, and, as I said, I hope that after the discussions have been concluded this law will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36212	I thank you, Madam Minister. For the remaining eight minutes, the word is Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, the authorised representative of the ZES Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36213	What I have seen in the course of today's debate on the law on amnesty is one constant in the work of MPs, or individual parliamentary groups, which, in my opinion, is a paradigm, in terms of political and parliamentary inconsistencies. I would like to remind you that on 21 November 2006, a group of 79 MPs of the then single SRS, including MPs who today belong to the Progress Serbia, or the SNS, proposed to the National Assembly, submitted a bill on amnesty, which, among other things, provides for the release of amnesty from the prosecution of a person accused or accused of criminal offences for which a sentence has been prescribed for up to three years; to be released from prosecution of the prosecution of a person guilty or accused of committing a crime; to be released from prosecution of a person who has been convicted or accused of being charged as perpetrators of a criminal offence, except for inciting the execution of a criminal act of murder. Also, the 2006 bill envisioned that they were completely released from the execution of the sentence of a person sentenced to a prison sentence of up to three years and persons who are on trial for criminal offences from members I quoted. Also, according to the bill, signed by 79 MPs of the then-Serbian Radical Party, they are released from the execution of 33% of a prison sentence sentenced to three to ten years in prison and are released from the execution of 25% of a prison sentence sentenced to a prison sentence of ten to 40 years. So I consider political demagogy what the MPs have been saying against the amnesty law that is on the agenda today. I expect that in the day for the vote and part of the opposition parties, which we have seen from the presentation of the Liberal Democratic Party Group, they will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36214	You don't have the right to a replica. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. He's right on the line, Mr. Peric. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. That's okay. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36215	So, you've injured, among other things, article 27. Rules of Procedure and Rule 101. Rules of Procedure. I think you had to give me the right to a replica. If you followed my presentation, it lasted 30 minutes, Mr. Ratkovic just now looked back on those things I was talking about. He said that we MPs of the Serbian Radical Party at that time submitted the bill on amnesty (amnesty among these MPs myself) and said that what we were talking about now is what is in the bill political demagogy. So I don't think what I said was political demagogy. Please give me the right to the replica. That's gonna take a while. Obviously, Mr. Ratkovic misread exactly what I was talking about in the principle debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36216	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure you're referring to. The right to replica has Mr. Sreto Peric, as an authorised representative at this point. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have to talk to my colleague Vlatkovic: there is no single and ununited Serbian Radical Party; there is a Serbian Radical Party, sometimes there are so many MPs, sometimes as many, we hope that in the next elections we will have much more than we have today. It's our right. Secondly, it seems that you have not listened carefully to me, and you have taken the right to comment on the views of the SRS. As an authorised representative of the SRS, I did not say that we are against amnesty as a political or legal act, but I was talking about crimes that are protected this time by amnesty. Amnesty can be given for certain crimes, can be given for a sentence which has been imposed on these crimes and can be combined, for both. What you were reading earlier, you saw that it was a principle of criminal acts that could be punished for up to three years. It can be combined with a type of crime and we know perfectly what ablation is, what amnesty is, and what pardon is. Madam Minister, I'm speaking to you this time, and the abolism is total or wider amnesty. She's also for pardon and amnesty. Not to discuss the legal moment and aspect of amnesty and pardon, but to talk and talk about a political act, of course, we couldn't leave out the whole legal aspect of this problem. There's an MP here who doesn't even read the bill's proposals. It appears after a debate in principle and usually wants to be the last and make a few political insinuations. I don't think that's correct. I can't transfer this to you, Mr. Chairman, but this colleague should have little correctness for the other MPs, both those who support this government and those who are in opposition. Dear fellow Members, there are also MPs here in the opposition who read legal proposals and speak of them on that basis. You take it as your right to tell some political stories, some insinuations, which certainly have nothing to do with the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36218	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS Group Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36219	Thank you. After such a heated debate, in which the topic was predominantly military, military status, or something called the tradition of the army and the tradition of everything, in which the participation took really competent, and rich and incompetent, MPs for that matter, I want to say one thing. Those people who defended this country were no one's soldiers, but they were soldiers of the state. Those people who didn't defend this country, they were deserters. We want to forgive these people for these acts, especially because this law applies to the period since 2006 and so on, when there were no such war acts. Of course, fellow Peric, in your discussion, you referred to one of my opinions and conversation with the citizens, so to speak. In particular, I am telling you, and I am openly saying -- all the warriors who have defended this country and this nation, at least a huge part of them, are willing to forgive their fellow citizens, so that tomorrow they and their children will be better off. Let the warriors fight their torment and their battle today as best they know and know it, for better tomorrow for themselves and their families. Let us help those who had no understanding and courage to serve their duty to the Fatherland. Their long country that did not serve them goes to honor, first of all, and we are proud to be proud as the most legislative body because we are willing to and such things, at least the part that is next to us, do. Of course, these cheap moves, which certain colleagues do to collect which points we leave to them, and as far as these 5,000 citizens are concerned, I would like to welcome them to the state of Serbia, to the Republic of Serbia and to make a full contribution to that, and we have made our contribution, hopefully, to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36220	Thank you. Mr. Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36221	Comrade Dujovic, we have no idea we're taking on war veterans. They're our fighters and thank them for everything they've done. Now why are these unresolved problems, which are primarily directed towards the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance, why don't they forgive them that way? You take it as a right... Your political attitude, I don't think I'm changing it, it's your right, but don't take it from veterans to take something for themselves, so take it as their attitude, because it certainly isn't. If they are willing to forgive that, why do they appear with requests in other cases? We believe that these demands are justified, and that we understand each other immediately. I personally think you share our opinion on their demands. Some others have tried to politicise this thing here – for technical reasons, not about 5,000 people, who had not only the right, but also the obligation to serve the military deadline. Who can convince anyone that this is a technical problem? It's simply a matter of complete consciousness not to respond to that. Now you can take whatever attitude you want, ablimate, pardon, it's a matter of your political commitment, but don't point out that it's something that's completely normal. It's about five thousand... Is it possible that it wasn't a doctor of science, that maybe it wasn't those people who were involved and who were involved in science and research? We had this subject on Friday. What is your view of these issues, we could also see for ourselves. If, according to science, therefore, according to something that requires peace and full concentration, you have the kind of attitude you have, we are fully aware of what attitude you will have when it comes to the collapse of the state and all its institutions. This is what you are talking about today and you will also talk about other legislative proposals that are on the agenda of this session, because for you it is practically all politics. Why don't you send some other messages, think about citizens who don't have a job, who don't have a chance to heal, who don't have a chance to educate their children? That's not your problem. Do you think that maybe those 5,000 people are a critical mass that will provide you with 126 mandates in some subsequent elections? Let's talk rationally, talk about what's objective and what's the problem of this country. Whatever you touch, you just ruin it. Don't do that, it won't take you anywhere. If it means a year or two to you, don't do it for the ones you're here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-09-0.u36222	Thank you. The end of today's principle debate promises a very dynamic and exciting debate in particular. I am concluding a principled search on the Amnesty Law proposal. We will continue tomorrow, on Wednesday 10 March 2010, at 10.00 hours, on the 14th point of the agenda, by discussing the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Time and Catastrophe.
