ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Zeljko Tomic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall inform you that I have convened this session exclusively for Monday, 4 October 2010, and within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that, in addition to the representatives of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, I also called for the session to be attended by Ruzica Stojiljkovic, the assistant finance minister. You were presented with the minutes of the session of the Third, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I am voting on the minutes of the 2010 National Assembly session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the Republic of Serbia held on 29 June and 30 June and 1 July 2010. Of 139 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the June 29th and July 1st and July 1st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 28 July 2010. Of 139 MPs, 125 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. I am voting on the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 27 and 28 July 2010. Of the 138 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. I am voting on the minutes of the July 26th 2010 session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of 141 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure and on proposals for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro on the exchange of funds and documentation, submitted to the National Assembly on 1 June 2010. Please make a statement. Of 141 MPs, 14 for. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 June 2010. Please plead. Of the 141 MPs, no one voted for the proposal. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that the draft accreditation law, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 June 2010, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 142 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the proposal. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an urgent procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on trade and economic co-operation, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 June 2010, please give a statement. Of 142 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision on the granting of consent to the Internal Planning and Systematisation of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 July 2010. Please plead. Of 142 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic proposed that the draft resolution on Serbia and Kosovo – Partnership and Responsibility for Security, Stability and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 August 2010. Please make your point. Of the 145 MPs, eight voted for the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government proposed putting on the agenda an air traffic law proposal, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 August 2010, which is otherwise the fourth item of the proposed agenda. Please make a statement. Of 145 MPs, 127 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 August 2010, be put on the agenda. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of the 144 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the execution of prison sentences for organised crime, which was filed by the National Assembly on 27 August 2010, be put on the agenda of an emergency procedure. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of the 146 MPs, the one. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 September 2010, be put on the agenda. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of the 145 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 September 2010. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of the 145 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the State concession loan contract for the NUCTECH tm Project for the inspection of containers/vehicles between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and Chinese Export – Import Bank as a lender, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 September 2010. A year. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of the 145 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, which submitted to the National Assembly 20, be put on the agenda. September 2010. A year. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of 144 MPs, 122 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the security of the Republic of Serbia of the People's Republic of China, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 September 2010. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of the 144 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Social Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade iUniCredit Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Air Traffic Action Society "JAT AIRWAYS" a.d. Belgrade, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 September 2010. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of the 144 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to KBC Banka a.d., New Credit Bank Maribor d.d., Eurobank EFG a.d., Vojvodina Banka a.d., Hypo-Alpe-Adria Banka.d. Belgrade and Erste banka.d. Novi Sad and Banca Intesa. Belgrade, Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d., Raiffeisen banka.d. Belgrade and Sociale Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade which made a joint offer, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 24 September 2010. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of the 145 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed putting the Consumer Protection Law on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 September 2010. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of 142 MPs, 126 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the proposal for a sailing law and ports on internal waters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 September 2010, be put on the agenda of the emergency procedure. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of 142 MPs, 124 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Vladan Batic suggested that, as an emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee be put on the agenda to determine the facts related to the political background of the murder of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2010. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of the 143 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 September 2010, be put on the agenda. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of the 143 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2010. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of 143 MPs, 126 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The Committee on Trade and Tourism of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda of the List of Candidates for the President of the Competition Protection Commission, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2010. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of 143 MPs, 126 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The Committee on Trade and Tourism of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the list of candidates for members of the Competition Protection Council, submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2010. Please make your statement on this proposal. Of 143 MPs, 123 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: a joint principled search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Accreditation and a Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act and a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Air Traffic and the Proposal for a Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of 142 MPs, 127 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, pursuant to Article 193, and pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on: - Proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures; - List of candidates for members of the Competition Protection Board. If the National Assembly accepts, and we accept, does the MP Dejan never want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 142 MPs present, 125 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on proposals for the merger of discussions pursuant to Article 93(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. Of the 142 MPs, 128 were declared. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010 as a whole. I ask the service to prepare a consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act; 2. Proposal for a accreditation law; 3. Proposal for a consumer protection law; 4. Proposal for air traffic law; 5. Proposal for a law on navigation and ports on internal waters; 6. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the President and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures; 7. List of candidates for the President of the Competition Protection Commission; 8. List of candidates for members of the Competition Protection Council. Work according to the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending law and additions to the BUDGETS SYSTEM (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 37(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS parliamentary group in the debate under this law will represent Dragan Stevanovic and that Zoran Kasalovic will represent the SPS-JS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you are, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am extremely pleased that the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the Budgetary System begins in the autumn session of Parliament. As we all know, the basic reason for this proposal on amendments and additions is to include a piece relating to fiscal responsibility and fiscal rules. Of course, amendments to the bill are always a good opportunity to read the law again in peace, i.e. an opportunity to improve existing solutions, as has been done. After eight months of working on this law, we started working on this law somewhere at the beginning of the year, I could only express regret that part of the law relating to fiscal responsibility and fiscal rules is actually not a special law. It's important that he's involved, and that's why I want to present to you now the most important changes. As I said, any change is an opportunity to improve and improve existing solutions, so we also used these changes to improve above all certain definitions and the most important definitions – what is the budget, as the most important act of government and parliament, means a comprehensive plan of income and income, expenditure and expenditure, but also organised in two separate accounts, accounts of real and financial transactions. I stress this on purpose and purposely the definition is so clearly explained that what should not be collected, because the ratio of two accounts, such as the account of real and financial transactions, is the same and corresponds to the ratio of the character and its reflection in the mirror. In addition to this definition, certain classifications concerning public income and income have also been improved. So, some minor classification defects have been corrected, there has been an improved display of its own income and their control, certain changes in the budget calendar have been made to the very fact that there is a financial council. Some functions are better explained, above all, by financial management and control functions, internal audit functions, and by harmonising financial management and control and internal audit, and ultimately something is increased the flexibility of the budget solution, but I am stressing not jeopardising the possibility of effective budget control by parliament. Now I would move on to what is the most important addition and amendment of this law, and that is the part relating to fiscal responsibility. Why are fiscal rules being introduced? There are several reasons, I'll list some of them. This is therefore a framework for the management of a stable predictable fiscal policy, allowing for a fair and sustainable distribution of costs and benefits between current and future generations, strengthens macroeconomic stability and enables monetary and fiscal policy to be based on the same rules. The fiscal rules, with the independence of the central bank, are indeed pillars of macroeconomic stability. Why fiscal rules in Serbia? Well, that's one way to limit discretionary behavior in fiscal policy-making, prevent pro-cyclic fiscal policy and create conditions for anticyclical fiscal policy-making. It is a way for public finances to be sustainable and to avoid potential financial and fiscal crises. There is a long-term horizon in the planning process and perhaps we should finally add that we can view this as part of the European integration process because the conditions for EU membership and the European monetary union are strengthened right after the experience with Greece. What do international experiences tell us? Fiscal rules exist in more than 80 countries at the moment, and it is precisely the deterioration of fiscal performances, such as public debt and deficits during the global economic crisis, as if additionally creating pressure to tighten or introduce fiscal rules. Of course there is no guarantee, the introduction of fiscal rules alone cannot guarantee anything, but international experience shows that countries that have fiscal rules on average have a much better and more responsible fiscal policy. The amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act therefore form fiscal rules aimed at sustainable fiscal policy. The fiscal council is being formed by an independent expert body which essentially oversees the implementation of fiscal rules and has been improved fiscal procedures. The fiscal rules apply to the general government, the RS budget, local authorities' budgets, social security funds, and this law introduces general and specific fiscal rules. In essence, there are two general fiscal rules. A rule that determines the maximum participation of public debt, i.e. the debt of the general government in the social product of 45% and the participation of the annual fiscal deficit in a stable state, on average, of 1% of the social product. In doing so, I stress that fiscal deficits, the rules of the fiscal deficit are essentially defined according to a formula that has the form of so-called fiscal deficits. Taylor's rule. Why is the formula applied and not some particular amount applied? It's precisely because the formula allows for gradual adaptation. To come from the deficits we now have, which is about 4.8% of the social product, at some target level of 1% of the social product, we can't all do it overnight and we don't have to do it overnight. The formula provides, for one, the tenacity of adaptation. Also, the formula provides flexibility in adaptation. In this period, some transition period, when the fiscal deficit decreases from 4.8% to 1%, this adjustment depends, above all, on the rate of economic growth. If the rate of economic growth is dynamic, adaptation will be faster. If it is relatively weak, if it is, for example, 2% or 3% of the social product, and not 5%, the adjustment will be somewhat slower. In any case, on average, over a period of five years the adjustment is 0.75% of the social product. When we reach the target deficit level of 1% of the social product again this formula allows flexibility. It basically means that we have a deficit on average, which means that in years of expansion we need to achieve a surplus, so that in years of recession the deficit is greater than this 1%. In addition to the general rules which essentially have a basic task of ensuring long-term sustainability of public finances, the law also introduces specific rules which, above all, refer to the rules of adjustment of salaries and pensions in the period until 2015 and beyond. The task of these specific rules is essentially to change the structure of public consumption, i.e. to reduce current expenditure and increase capital expenditure. The government can exceptionally and temporarily deviate from fiscal rules and principles. It's a special decision to make. These are just cases of natural disasters or some external shocks affecting human health, human safety and significantly reducing the rate of economic growth. However, in these cases, the Government is obliged to submit a report to the National Assembly which clearly states the reasons why it temporarily deviates from fiscal rules, the measures it will take to ensure that fiscal rules are applied as soon as possible and the time horizon in which it is possible to do so. This law forms a fiscal council. The fiscal council is a professional and independent body formed to improve the culture of fiscal responsibility in Serbia and essentially affect the formation of public opinion when it comes to fiscal policymaking. The fiscal council only has three members. One member of the council is elected by the President of the Republic. The second member is elected by the governor of the National Bank, and the third member is elected by the finance minister. Members are elected by the National Assembly and proposed by the President of the Republic, governors of the finance minister. These are people who must possess, above all, high expertise and cannot perform other public functions. They cannot be members of political parties, they are elected for a period of six years. For his work, the fiscal council is responsible for the National Assembly. What are the functions of the fiscal council? First, the fiscal council assesses the extent to which the government in the past has complied with the fiscal rules it has established. It checks the macroeconomic and fiscal assumptions that are used in drawing up a report on the fiscal strategy, gives an independent and credible assessment of fiscal policy, assesses fiscal risks and the likelihood that the government will meet its objectives, checks the appropriateness of economic classifications. The function of the fiscal council is to draw up an opinion on the draft report on the fiscal strategy, and delivers the following analysis to the National Assembly: the revised report on the fiscal strategy, the draft strategy law, the draft law on the RS budget and the draft law on the final account. All these documents are being analysed by the fiscal council, as assessed by the possible fiscal implications of the various laws passed during the year in parliament. The government itself is leaving a memorandum and replacing fiscal strategy reports. The report, as the name itself says, is primarily focused on fiscal policy itself. The content of the fiscal report, the report on the fiscal strategy, has changed something compared to the memorandum. It contains medium-term projections of macroeconomic and fiscal aggregates, objectives and guidelines of fiscal policy, a report on tax policy, including tax expenditure, gives a consolidated general government budget, gives a review of priority areas of financing, a medium-term framework of expenditure, a review and an analysis of fiscal implications and economic policies, an assessment and quantification of fiscal risks and a public debt management strategy. Finally, the report on the fiscal strategy contains three mandatory additions. It is the opinion of the fiscal council on the fiscal strategy, which is the MBS's opinion on the fiscal strategy and it is a report on progress. In the end, what are the expected effects of these changes? This is a reduction in the fiscal deficit to 1% of the social product, which on average, as I have already said, is 0.75% annually. It's stabilising public expenditure around 40% of the social product level. It's a stabilization of public debt at a sustainable level. This is a change in the structure of public expenditure, a reduction in current and increased public infrastructure investments. It is the conduct of fiscal policy in accordance with the principles of intergenerational justice. Given the expected effects of these changes, I would ask the MPs to support this extremely important law, regardless of which parties they are on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44048	Do the committees want the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44049	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I cannot share your joy that we are starting a regular session of the National Assembly by this draft law, because I would like to finally begin this autumn's session with a debate on the draft law on public property. As you know, the National Assembly was obliged, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to pass a law on public property by 31 December 2008. We couldn't do it because the government didn't deliver that bill and I think that this way, almost two years after that constitutional deadline ended, would be the time for us to have in the assembly procedure a bill drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Some parties announced during the summer that they would not allow the start of the regular fall session of the National Assembly unless the bill was on the agenda, but these parties would explain to their voters why we are not discussing the Law on Public Property today, but about amendments and additions to the Law on the Budget System. You stated that the objectives achieved by law – strengthening fiscal responsibility and fiscal discipline because of the inadequacy of the size and structure of public spending, are the introduction of fiscal rules, which is on the one hand a commitment to the IMF, and on the other hand is important because of Serbia's intention to join the European Monetary Union. You have even cited that the Union will be more rigorous because of its experience with Greece, but there is nothing about whether the Union will be rigorous towards Serbia as it has been rigorous towards all other current EU member states and respect for constitutionality. Can one country enter the EU without the Government and the Assembly of that state not respecting the Constitution of their own state? I think it is impossible, that this would be a precedent and that it was not allowed for any country that is today an EU member. You have also stated what the objective of establishing an independent fiscal council will be to be an independent state body. That's certainly good, that should certainly be commended. The only thing that I do not understand about this fiscal council is how the legislative proposal will look in practice, that the fiscal council will give an opinion on all amendments submitted to the draft budget law, as it is so stated in the draft law, that the fiscal council will give an opinion in written form on all amendments to all future budgets. I'd rather deal with what's not in the law, and it should be. You stated in Article 24 that funding the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces will look the following way – that it is part of the company's profit tax, that is already so, that is 42.7% of the tax on the profits of enterprises achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and 18% of the income tax collected on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. You have stated in the bill that the financing of the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces is also carried out through other public incomes and incomes, so you have stated - both the other tax or part of the tax, in accordance with the law. Under what law and why is this law not yet in the congregation procedure? When are we going to find out what other types of tax AP Vojvodina will be financed? Why is this not in this amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system? As long as we're still going to look at the formulation of Vojvodina, in accordance with the law that will be passed one day, no one knows when? Furthermore, you have stated that there are among the public revenues and incomes and receipts from the sale of natural property, and we are talking about funding the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Which and what assets does the AP Vojvodina have today? Why is there still no such property, when the Assembly and Government were obliged to pass the law on public property by the end of 2008? That deadline was almost two years ago. To make it even more tragic, you also listed receipts from the sale of valuables. What is the value of the AP Vojvodina and when will it be? The Law on Public Property should have been proposed, or the National Assembly should have passed by the end of 2008. The work version of this law was on the Ministry of Finance site in October 2008, exactly two years ago, so by some mystery, that work version disappeared from the Ministry of Finance site and no one knows where the work version is and when it will come up with a draft, then the bill. No one's talking about what's going on with that public property law. I would ask Madam Minister to answer not only to me after my discussion, but to all of us MPs - what is the problem with this law on public property? It doesn't matter just because of the AP Vojvodina, it matters because of all the local self-government, because of all the municipalities and cities. Serbia is today the only country in Europe in which local self-government has no property. This is not one principle issue, it is a very significant, practical issue, or a practical problem. Local self-government can't develop, they can't create new jobs, they can't attract investments because they have nothing to propose, they can't offer potential investors. I have heard even one view from the people in your ministry that this law has not been passed and that no law on public property has been proposed because the Constitutional Court is awaiting the opinion of a provision of the Law on the restoration of property to churches and religious communities. If that's the case, then maybe we'll wait another 10 years, we can't get the blame to the Constitutional Court. So, according to the Constitution, the government was obliged to propose this law on public property to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly would be obliged to pass this law by the end of 2008. It is one constitutional obligation, it is a violation of the principle of constitutionality and it is a much bigger problem, when we are already talking about entering the EU, disrespect for the Constitution, than it would be a problem that there are no fiscal rules in the Budgetary System Act. In Article 27a, you introduce the concept of responsibility and you say that the Government is responsible for implementing fiscal policy and managing public finances, in accordance with principles, rules, procedures, etc. Then the executive body of local self-government is responsible for all of this in its territory. Who is responsible for sending a draft budget that is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Who has been responsible for sending budget proposals to the National Assembly for years by directly violating Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regarding the financing of the AP Vojvodina? In Article 27b, you introduce the term "fiscal principles". You list five general principles and six special principles. Among the general principles are: the principle of accounting, the principle of justice, the principle of responsibility, the principle of stability and the principle of transparency. That is certainly good, but once again I ask – where is the principle of constitutionality? Who is responsible if the draft budget that is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia arrives in the National Assembly? In Article 27g, we have fiscal rules for local government. You're saying the deficit can't exceed 10% of the income, and when we talk about local government, then according to the bill, we're thinking of both autonomous provinces and local self-government units. It states here that the executive body, the local authorities, can apply to the ministry by 1 May if it cannot comply with the 10% limit when we talk about the deficit. If local authorities exceed the limit, the minister suspends the transfer of funds and this refers to local self-government, i.e. belonging to a part of the profit and profit tax, and this is likely to refer to the financing of the AP. I don't know how much this provision is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but another dilemma is imposed, what if the AP gets other taxes in accordance with Article 24, despite the profit tax. Does that mean, I want to point out one mistake in the bill, what if the republican government wants to punish the AP Vojvodina, to suspend the transfer of the corresponding part of the income tax and profits, and what if Vojvodina gets some other kind of tax by then, because that would mean that it can't be suspended. So there's one mistake in the law. I hope we don't have to think here that the government still doesn't want to give other types of tax to Vojvodina, except for the income tax and the profit tax. The company's profit tax is otherwise a "very significant item" in the time of the economic crisis. In Article 27z, then, you are talking about exceptional circumstances: "The government can give up the fiscal principles of natural disaster, extreme shocks affecting people's health, national security" and in this case, the government submits a decision to the Assembly with an explanation. I would like to ask, Madam Minister, when you referred to the Assembly's procedure The draft budget law for the year 2009 which was anti-constitutional, was it done because of a natural disaster, and for me it was unknown that it was, thank God, some natural disaster in 2009, or at the end of 2009, when you referred to the 2010 budget procedure or there were some extreme shocks affecting the health of people or national security. Once again, I would ask you to give answers to these questions, first of all, regarding the adoption of public property law, when we can expect it, and the law on the revenues of the AP Vojvodina, when the issue was not already resolved by this law on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, and it was legally technically possible to resolve this. Despite the expectation of your answers, I would like to ask you that when you refer to the procedure of the 2010 Budget Law and the 2011 Budget Law that these proposals do not conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and here I am referring to Article 184. We're one consistent party and we've proven it on multiple occasions. If we could not vote for the draft budget in December of last year, when it was against the constitution, we will not be able to do so even now that we are discussing the rebalancing and the 2011 budget. It is not a threat, it is the intention of finding a solution and allowing us to vote in favour of rebalancing, or the draft budget for 2011. I would like to remind you, Madam Minister, that in December 2009, we spoke of the principle that Vojvodina belongs to at least 7% of the republican budget, but is not respected the second part of the provision of Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the amount of three weeks should go to capital investments. We have shown this in a way that we have presented to you how much the share of the budget for transfers in education, how much is the share for transfers of local self-government and how much the costs for functioning the province and if we add all the amounts, it is not difficult to calculate that there are no three weeks for capital investments, or there is no 42% for capital investments from that amount belonging to Vojvodina. We asked that there remain in the budget those provisions that existed in the previous budget that Vojvodina belonged to 90% of the NIS sales price, which existed in the 2009 budget, but was forgotten to be rewritten into this budget that is still valid. Vojvodina got 50%, and we still didn't get 40%, and we should've won after the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, and there's no such amount. So, the republican government owes the province about 150m euros and we still don't know where that money is. They were probably spent, but they weren't spent in accordance with the law. I would be very uncomfortable if we came to the same situation we were in in December last year when we were accused of destroying the government, when a criminal expedition was established, so the SVM was expelled from the government in Subotica, in Sainta, and I would not want it to happen again just because we principledly adhere to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I would like to quote the statement by the province's finance secretary, Mr. Jovic Djukic, a statement he made in the 'Dnevnik' on 25 September 2010 concerning the proposal for a rebalancing of the AP Vojvodina budget for 2010. Secretary Djukic, who is otherwise a member of the DS, does not belong to the option I belong to, says the total amount of the 60.7 billion dinar budget only nominally meets the minimum of 7% for the province, but it is still not possible to provide three weeks of capital investment budgets because much of the budget is made up of transfer funds. So, Mr. Jovica Djukic, a DS member, says the same thing I just told you about the New Sad Dnevnik. I hope this problem is solved. If that is not the case, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will not be respected and we would not want that to happen. Once again, I expect an answer to the question of what about the public property bill and the financing of the AP Vojvodina, and I urge that we find a solution to the proposed budget rebalancing, that the proposal would be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that we would be able to support this proposal, because I want to underline the red and yellow color 10 times, we do not intend to tear down the government, but our intention is to adopt a budget that is in line with the Constitution and that is in line with the interests of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44050	The word is from Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44051	Mrs Dragutinovic, it is my pleasure that you are the first minister in our autumn session. I think it's an important topic that we're talking about, but unfortunately, we've entered it in a chaotic manner, in the same way that we behave in our public finances. First, I have to ask you if you have a majority for this law, because I have just heard the representative of your ruling coalition telling you that the majority is conditioned, I would not say certain concessions but certain political moves. It is not good if it comes to parliament with a bill agreed in a cabinet and is not agreed in a ruling coalition that should vote for it. If the ruling majority does not understand the meaning of this law, how will our society understand it? We in the LDP think this is an important law. We regret that this is how he is introduced into political life, into social life. I think you're right when you say it was necessary to pass a clear law, not through amendments and additions to the existing law, practically, to introduce some new rules. You have remained in our debt to answer the question of why it was done like this. It's another kind of problem that follows this debate of ours. What you're talking about all the time is actually a confirmation of an unnatural relationship that has been established in our power, which is a relationship that rests primarily on the belief that problems can be solved by dealing exclusively with the consequences, not the cause of these problems. I'll remind you that the ministers, that your colleagues announced a month ago, two or three weeks ago, is no longer so important, but not long ago, that good news of our country leaving the crisis. Look how weird everything is. We spent two years in persuasion, first living in the belief that the crisis had passed us by, and then we announced how she had gone. All you're talking about is something that we've been discussing for years and understanding internal reforms as preconditions for not entering the EU, but our ability to act according to the rules on which the EU rests. We don't see the strength it takes to make everything that you've brought here come true. We cannot economically integrate with Europe or with the modern world without being accompanied by political integration. Just because there is no agreement between one and the other processes in Europe itself does not mean that such a thing is good for Serbia. Europe today has a lot of problems because two years after the break-up of the financial market, it is obvious that this breakdown is a product of internal exhaustion of a system that is significantly wider than the field of economy, although it is most clearly expressed through the economy. Today there is no limit between France and Germany. Economic markets are so integrated that the disturbance of one Irish bank disrupts the value of the index on all European markets. Greece's inability to finance its public debt disrupts the whole of Europe, I'm talking, say, about deficits. It is normal for France to protest the French government's intention to raise the border from 58 to 60 years to retire, while it is quite acceptable for the French to work until 67. I ask you a question – who will work for the 45% you speak of? I'm talking about the budget compared to GDP. Who's going to work for that deficit rate you're referring to as a target, that one percent, when you and I, and anyone who reads the daily press knows that one percent means a lot of denials that can be described so lifelessly through the notion of current consumption, but in translation, that means that we'll be able to spend less than we can earn, because we're going to give up on the part of that profit to invest in what you call capital investments? That's why this law cannot be passed in isolation. We need reform policy, and that's what we've been waiting for for for two years here in the Assembly. You're prescribing operating rules in this sector, I'm talking about public finances, for operations, for example, pension funds. Pension growth is required in the coming years, with pension growth tied to price growth and part of GDP growth rate. What's a prerequisite for efficiency, to the extent that you're talking about, is the establishment of a previous order. Who will pay the price for such a policy, for short breath policy and occasional moves? Both you and I will easily agree to describe the weight of the problem that follows, let's say, the budget and the government's commitment to finance the pension fund. We've been warning you for years at a price that grows because the government doesn't have the strength to abandon the politics of populism and demagogy. I'm not talking about you personally, but I'm talking about those who, let's say, decided to raise their pensions 10% linearly two years ago, so they put such pressure on the currency that today we have a problem explaining to the pensioners what they actually got. If we prescribe the pension fund's obligation to define its annual plans by a certain moment, the indicative budget, etc., why we forget the obligation of the state to clear up the chaos in that pension fund, which is required, for example, to release those surplus costs that are followed by the undeserved status of pensioners that many enjoy at this time. I'll remind you that we're the only country where 25% of pensioners exercise their pension rights based on disability. This right implies much more support by the state than is the right followed by an ordinary pensioner. Whoever went into invalid retirement went beyond the age line. The money he gets from the state is increased, among other things, because of the particularly difficult conditions of life that the state needs to respect. It's clear there's a lot of abuse. The government has no idea how to handle this. We're talking about a health fund obligation. He doesn't think I'm pushing my finger around these three million-dollar vaccines we've paid for, so we're destroying them now, but health policy reform and health care system is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of the measures you're talking about. You know how this is gonna end? Unbinding, just like it's been so far. I very little agree with the previous speaker on his criticism to you. I think you're doing what the ruling coalition has allowed you to do, but what the predecessor was right about is that very stretching notion of external shock. Everything, Mrs Dragutinovic, will be an external shock when we start looking for 126 MPs here in the Assembly. If we are talking about public finances, then they are exact, as we are talking about percentages and differences that will affect growth, let's say, salaries of public sector employees or pensions. It is necessary to say what this external shock is, because for some external shock it may be his current rating, for some external shock to enter an election campaign with a burden of height that speaks of unfulfilled election promises from the previous election campaign. We propose that these exceptional circumstances be clearly formulated in economic terms. What is the rate of inflation, which is the rate of unemployment, what is the percentage drop in national currency, what is the difference between imports and exports, what is the total debt, not only public but the total debt of the economy, so that we can, for example, support a law that tries to formulate a new form of fiscal responsibility? We're talking fiscal council. You're not a party man, and where you're sitting, you're sitting first because you've been capable enough in your life, so you've singled yourself out in that mass where each of us is a little bit, and then you've agreed to do one job and, let's say, it absolutely requires respect from some human point of view. You're not a party man, you're not a cameraman, you're not an air-bender of any party. I suggest you leave this demagogue of so-called neutrality and independence of some regulatory bodies. You're part of a concept that rests on the idea that the president should be everything. I'll tell you what it looks like in the case of a fiscal council. We have three members of the fiscal council, one member is proposed by the President of the Republic, another member is proposed by you, and you have been proposed by the same President of the Republic, who is the president of the ruling party, and the third is proposed by the governor who was also proposed by the President of the Republic. I think you should take responsibility for something like that. It can simply be said by the ruling coalition -- we as most suggest these people. What's the hiding between some so-exhausted phrases? We don't need that kind of neutrality, Mrs. Dragutinovic. I don't believe it's just the fact that some other part of the ruling coalition has no ability in it. We don't need that kind of microcry, we saw it didn't work. If we believed something like that ten years ago, it's obviously denied today. We need elemental order. Members of the fiscal council will be elected to act in accordance with the law and the end of the story. That's what we need. At least at the level of your law, I think that's what needs to be done. The issue of the European Monetary Union and our obligations that require us to adapt to our public finances the performance of the European Monetary Union. First, we must see for ourselves now that there is no such agreement within the Union. Whose deficits are our landmarks now? Is it the deficit of Great Britain, England, Italy, France, Germany or is it that bureaucratic deficit of Brussels that no one respects? If we're talking about deficits, then again to the people of this country, that's what's very important, you have to say the point. The deficit is the difference that arises because of our inability to create as much as we need to meet our needs. This country can either give up some needs or try more work. In one case or another, your law is not enough. If we're talking about further denial, then we have a problem, I think we're at the bottom and that belt can no longer be tightened. If we're talking about the need to do more, then the problem is again what you're doing. The problem is the belief that your government creates by asking society to think with its stomach and not with its head, because the head has a government and there's no need for us to use it for that. She'll hire us and feed us. This law should be part of the economic package we've been looking for for two years. A package that will send this society a message that the state is ready to take over the burden arising from its obligation to reform itself and that it is impossible to live on by transferring the burden of the crisis from the state to society. I think that's what's going on. Am I wrong to say that there are different economic views in the government and the different economic policies that are being led at the same time? At the same time, you have an agrarian policy that does not rest on stimulating farmers, you have an economy minister policy that is intensely stimulating, you have a government position that advocates raising public spending as a form of support for our economy, and you have you all the time saying that something like that can no longer be done in the country. These are the dilemmas that you within your ruling majority need to clear up. We don't mind a clear plan of public finances, the deadlines you set, when the ministries meet you, when you meet the government, when the government meets parliament, when parliament returns its suggestions and objections to the government, when the government adopts one document, another document, when it enters the Assembly, but what if these deadlines are not respected? You yourself know how long we've spent under extraordinary financial circumstances. We've had extraordinary budgets for three years. By mid-2007 we had functioned on the provisional budget, although it is contrary to all norms. Then we adopted a half-2007 budget, and that half-2007 budget was practically a temporary election budget for 2008. We entered 2008 with the government's budget and changed that budget when you showed up as finance and budget minister, not with what Serbia really needs, but with what the price for the ruling coalition is. It happened at a time when the economic crisis was developing. Then we broke the budget by 400m euros, because it was about the value of that increase in current consumption. If we're talking about this ambition to move from current consumption to capital investment, then we need to ask you if there's another element missing, and that's the financial component of the whole transfer, because even so far, the current consumption has not been financed exclusively from the budget, but from the loans. Our country was selling its securities on financial markets, someone was buying it, and that's how money was then financed by current consumption. The moment it became too much of a doubt about the quality of these papers, our country began to borrow money. The first time we borrowed money for liquid consumption, I think from the Russian Federation that we took a loan from one. What will be the financial structure of capital investments be built on? We don't think there's enough room for capital investment if only part of the current consumption is allocated to this capital. Where is this money we need to make these capital investments effective? Mrkonjic will not always be the minister of infrastructure. One day we might get a minister of infrastructure to figure out what a paradoxical situation is in a country that has more corridors than kilometers of asphalt. One day, and the question of our system's ability to implement and implement this activity at all. Capital investments mean, Mrs Dragutinovic, a much higher level of responsibility than the one currently following our country. We agreed with the Chinese state on capital investment in Serbia. Is that right? So the representatives of our country and the Chinese state signed contracts on the realisation of projects that rest on the loans that we adopted here after these signatures. The prerequisite for the signature was for them to be ratified here first. Unimplemented expropriation. There is no political and economic integrity in our country's internal life. Which one of us here knows what does operationally mean, say, a deal on China's capital investments in Serbia? Who here can analyze the effects of the "South Stream" investment on Serbia's space. We don't know where he's going or where he's going to go. When the President of the Republic says where he thinks he should go in, others remind him he doesn't even have the right to do it. We think that these capital investments should be crucially derived from the concept of savings in our society. That it's a derivative that needs to be used. In order for our society to understand what I'm talking about, we need to change the subject of our everyday life. I must, if necessary, be picturesque to that level that is understandable to the citizens of this country. To realise this reform of public finances, we need to have a policy, Mrs Dragutinovic. Are these public finances isolated countries, are these public finances of a country that only demagoguely deals with the process of European integration or are these public finances of a country that has decided to change everything within it problematicly and overcome? Are these public finances of a state that will change its attitude towards the economy or will end these capital investments as a position on the site of your government's ministry, which has raised and opened the internet portal and thus bring down the economic integration process in the EU, and I mean this aid to the building, which is directly opposite of the SAA, which is directly opposite to Cefti. Time?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44052	Twenty minutes, MP. You've already used 22 minutes. The word has an MP, Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44054	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, when we talk about the need, the reasons and experiences of the area of public finances for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on the Budgetary System should, above all, be said to be about the law of systemic nature, which is related to global current practice. Practically, it is a similar response in more than 80 countries to the possible option and situation, that the interests of politicians in power often do not coincide with the interests of the whole society, i.e. focus on the short term while in power and afterwards there is a real danger of such a view of generating neglect of long-term effects and putting into account future generations in the form of high public debt. With this in mind, there are many examples in Europe and the world of overcoming this possible problem. One of these is a good example of Norway, which really has a great wealth, primarily natural in terms of oil. They set up a kind of budget planning system for intergenerational accounting, which provides for the preservation of this wealth, in terms of, above all, self-investment and preservation for some future generations. Practice and experience in these countries shows that the introduction of fiscal rules gives rise to a better quality of fiscal policy and, of course, to a greater value for money invested. The proposed provisions of this law will certainly have a positive impact on Serbia's macroeconomic competitiveness for a more responsible fiscal policy and target level of responsibility, which is certainly one of the country's competitors. If the information is that we are currently 96 out of 139 countries in this regard, and it is necessary to pursue a place between 60 and 70. Of course, passing this law is a prerequisite. Of course, these reasons of need and experience contribute to the adoption of this law, and I am sure they do not leave much room for controversy and confrontation, and they certainly do not leave room for criticism that the application of the provisions of this law could produce some negative consequences. On the contrary, only the benefit and benefits of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the impact on the public finance management environment in the Republic of Serbia, I would first of all like to say that in 2008, in the term of this government, it can be said, has changed significantly, above all, because the light of day saw the first report on the final account of the Republic of Serbia by the State Auditing Institution. There's been a lot of discussion about him. Of course, by working the DRI and following that report, reports are being produced that every dinar in the Republic of Serbia's budget is being used for purpose purposes. I also want to point out a consistent fight, led by the Ministry of the Interior and all state authorities, against corruption and against all types of corruption and crime, especially in this area. The results are daily and visible and there are no longer any privileges and that they are all leveled before the law. There is a permanent work that is constantly being discussed in this home, in establishing internal control and internal audit. She's also being treated by this law. I think it is very important that this domain be established in all those institutions, because that law provides for it. The essential internal control and internal audit will be a prerequisite for removing possible irregularities in the beginning and creating a condition for each dinar to be spent for the purposes for which it is intended. Of course, this is all a new public finance environment in the Republic of Serbia and probably leaves room for controversy, and that always more and more can be better and I think so. With that in mind, I'd like to say that perhaps one of the future steps is to reform the tax system. Data should not be ignored that tax evasion in developed EU countries and even developed countries is moving up to 10 to 15 per cent of gross social product, while some data say that these tax evasions are moving up to 30% of GDP. It's always time for those taxes to be dropped and one way is tax reform. VAT evasion is low, but therefore there are known opportunities for tax evasion on the income of citizens, where there is so-called. and a gray and black zone. I think we should start reforming the tax system. It is necessary to support the tax administration, both organisationally and technically, and humanly modernised, and of course there is a certain reserve in that domain for a significant increase in revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The bill certainly takes a new step in creating an environment for the management of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia, as it provides for serious and socially responsible economic policies, provides much more reliable medium-term public spending planning. It's very important for Serbia, this problem has been facing for a long time. Of course, the provisions of this law will allow for anticyclical fiscal policy, which will mean that in years of growth and progress should be spared for some future times. It is known that we did not have such a case from 2006 to 2008. The provisions of this law will allow faster adaptation to EU conditions and standards, particularly when it comes to the amount of fiscal deficit and public debt compared to GDP. With all this in mind, I would like to say that SPS-JS MPs will in principle support the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system. I'd like a few provisions to mention and comment. We support it above all because this law in its Article 27a provides that the government is responsible for the implementation of fiscal policy, in accordance with the principles and rules and procedures laid down in this law. This law also lays down the fiscal framework, introduces the necessary documents, and certainly, what is important, introduces fiscal rules, above all, rules covering the budget of the Republic of Serbia, local authorities, out-of- budget funds, social security funds and some other non-market and non-profit institutions controlled by the state. These rules are general and special and have already been discussed. It's possible to dispute whether they're real and reachable. In view of the professional public, what we could hear at the beginning of the year at a meeting of economists on Kopalnik, most agree that this target deficit of 1% and a 45% debt in the gross social product is reached. I agree that it is good that it is a fluctuating policy, i.e. a targeted way of achieving that deficit, and that it enables that when we have growth, this deficit is not reduced, or that we are achieving a surplus, and that when the state has certain problems that this deficit does not reduce in this way. When it comes to specific rules, they primarily go towards reducing the fiscal deficit compared to the gross social product, with the tendency to achieve it mostly through the reduction of current public expenditures. with a view to changing the structure of public consumption towards reducing current expenditure and increasing public investment. This change in the structure of public spending is very important and we can see in the last two years that indeed capital infrastructure projects have allowed the state of Serbia to withdraw significant funds from international funds, i.e. those projects, which have been inactive for some time until this government and the current Minister Mrkonjic, are creating a space for a new start, for a new development of the Republic of Serbia, and that they are highly profitable, i.e. the international community, i.e. credit institutions and banks are ready to finance such a kind of project. These specific fiscal rules are also aimed at enabling the goal of participating pensions in the gross social product by 2015 at 10% and at paying in the public sector 8%. Also, I think this goal is very real and reaching. With regard to the proposal in terms of harmonising the level of participation of pension expenditure, our parliamentary club will have one amendment in this regard, not wanting to shift targeted participation in GDP, but possibly a method of harmonisation in order to achieve this goal as well. A colleague, Petronijevic, will talk about it a little more. I believe that the proposed provisions of this law apply to all levels of government, although there have been some other proposals in the debate, because in this way one fair dispersion is done at all levels of government, because this is indeed necessary and not easy to adapt to the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, I consider a good proposal that the fiscal deficit of the local self-government budget should not be greater in the current year than 10% compared to its revenues in that year, with the provision that it is possible to change that target deficit of the local self-government budget at the request of the minister, but only if the deficit relates to the realisation of public investment. I think that's a very good solution. That's what people who worked in local self-government know best. What's encouraging, here's the data we heard on the Finance Committee from the finance ministry's representatives, is that most local self-governments fit somewhere in this projected principle, that 22 municipalities are breaking through this deficit, but that most of them are mostly using these funds to realise public investment. Of course, for all of this, this has been said, exceptional circumstances have been envisaged in which these rules and principles can be deviated, with a mandatory report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is why it was done. You wouldn't mention them here. I would also like to refer to the fiscal advice introduced by this law. Such advice and such an institute exists in most countries that have these solutions. For example, Sweden and Hungary have it. Great Britain has an office of budgetary responsibility, and many in the public as well as the issue of the jurisdiction of the fiscal council, the practice shows that in most countries the fiscal council does not assume and directly does not condition the government's competence and on the proposal of the budget and its realisation, as this would in some sense mean that it would deprive the government of power to implement an economic policy for which it has gained legitimacy in the elections. In this sense, this solution is accompanied by these modern solutions, and it is predicted that the fiscal council is an independent state body that will be responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I believe that this is also a good and better solution than the one offered in the debate, as a dilemma that perhaps the fiscal council will be within the DRI, primarily because of the competence of one and the other institution, and of course the objectives that are intended to be achieved. The DRI is already operational, determining the dedicated spending of funds. We hope that in full capacity it will work in the next period, and the fiscal council should be independent and give an independent analysis of fiscal policy. When it comes to proposing, both members and the possibility for the fiscal council not to carry out this function in full capacity, above all because of the way to propose, I would like to say that Article 92v quite accurately predicts what the conditions are for someone to be proposed, elected as a member of the fiscal council. This is said in point 2 – an appropriate master’s degree, master’s degree in economic science, publishing scientific papers in the field of macro-economy, fiscal policy, etc. The President in position 2 is scheduled to have at least five years of experience in carrying out the operations. Of course, this profile of people with such professional qualifications, with this kind of work experience, I think it's enough guarantee to provide them with quality, professional and independent work, regardless of who suggested them. I'm sure such people are willing not to succumb to any kind of pressure, and from those who suggest and from those who choose them. In addition, when it comes to fiscal councils, it is of course important that the council has full credibility and capacity. I think this way of choosing and proposing members will achieve this, but of course it will be a good thing and advantages in the fact that the fiscal rules that the council will be managed are very precisely defined. They can also defend themselves professionally, and this is a prerequisite to avoid any kind of politicisation, and that such work and such an act of the fiscal council will allow for strengthening its credibility, and such fiscal advice, of course, when it gives its opinion, will submit its reports, advice, will have a significant impact on everyone in the Republic of Serbia, a significant impact on the creation of the public in avoiding any kind of pulsism in the fiscal politics of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I would like to say that this careful reading and harmonisation of certain provisions of the laws so far have contributed to some new solutions. I think they're good too. I would also like to point out that the envisaged solution in terms of ensuring some flexibility in the implementation of the budget in Article 61 is very good, and that it is simply not possible to predict, simply when planning the budget, the full implementation of certain apropriations and, of course, to predict some unforeseen circumstances. If some problems arise in the execution of certain aproprietations or inability to execute in the course of the year without jeopardising some of the priorities of the budget, this provision provides for the possibility to be used and entered into the budget reserve, which will certainly allow them to be realised for some other purposes that were not foreseen in the budget of both the Republic of Serbia and local self-government. I think it will make a significant contribution to the possible good implementation of all budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44055	The word has an MP, Radoje Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, after many announcements finally this important matter on the agenda of the National Assembly. You yourself said you've been preparing this law for eight months. First question, should Serbia ever need a fiscal responsibility law, should these things be defined in this way at all? That there are no terms of an IMF arrangement or that one of the conditions is not the adoption of this law I doubt they would be discussing today. The reason is that we adopted the whole new Budgetary System Act a year ago. In this law, there is virtually no indication of any element that is being regulated today. If there was an idea I suppose that when that law was announced in June last year and when we discussed it, we would have at least some indication of what we have today. What does the law define? It defines basic fiscal principles and basic fiscal rules and introduces five fiscal principles – the principle of laying down accounts that determines that the Government is accounting for the National Assembly. To be honest, I thought it would define the Constitution and that the government is doing the same thing to date, so it doesn't need to be particularly stressed by this law. The principle of justice implies policy management by taking care of today's generations and generations to come. The principle of responsibility implies responsible management of assets and liabilities. The principle of stability implies that fiscal policy is implemented in a way that does not cause sudden changes. The principle of transparency – that we all have insight into how these funds are spent. I have nothing to object to these principles. That's all there is to it. But have we respected these principles by now or by this law and by what means? The fiscal rules determine that the long-term deficit will be around 1% of GDP, that the sustainable debt for Serbia will be around 45% of GDP. What is interesting, this law, I regret that there are no more colleagues from other parties, introduces that long-term pensions will be reduced to 10% of GDP and salaries in the public sector 8% of GDP. I remember that we talked here many times on the subject of total mass pensions and wages and that every time it caused a reaction as a thing that will certainly not be applied. Now we see that that's how it's gonna be. If it is taken into account that despite all restrictions that will be introduced by the Law on PIO, the number of pensioners has increased in recent years, and the number of employees is decreasing, given that long-term GDP growth will be quite modest, then it is clear what is ahead and employees in education, healthcare and especially what is waiting for pensioners. There's no illusion about it. The law says the law is extremely important, because it will save 25 billion dinars. The first thing he has to associate with when he sees it is why wasn't that part of the savings so far? Why didn't we apply? You have reason to believe that the savings will be 25 billion dinars under this law. If we're aware of all these rules and principles, if we're aware of all these details, why didn't we apply them last year, and two years ago, but it took it to do it in such a way that we could force each other to establish those rules? The basic element relating to fiscal responsibility and fiscal rule is GDP. All other rules are laid down in relation to GDP as the basic aggregate. Here go fine mathematics, 0.1% GDP, 1%... The basic question asked – who determines GDP? What methodology and how reliable is this information? If you have the first piece of information that's pretty unreliable, then the question is, how do you come up with fine calculations based on unreliable data? Both you and I know that GDP is determined by a rather outdated methodology and that a way of calculating should be changed, because in 2002 the structure of Serbia's economy was a little different than it is today. The idea is that the long-term deficit is about 1% of GDP, but the possibility is open, if it is public investment, that they can be viewed slightly differently, i.e. up to 2% of GDP overrun the deficit at the expense of public investment. This is a question – how does the RS government valorise investments and how exactly do priorities be determined? Based on what we have the opportunity to see and on the laws we are discussing, various loans and ratifications, it is quite unequivocal that public investment and choice of priorities are defined on the basis of coalition priorities. Each party has certain priorities, and it defines certain things as a priority. It is clear that this has little to do with a clean economy, that it has a lot to do with clean policy and that politics defines priorities. What is the guarantee that in the next period, we will choose priorities differently, and what is the guarantee that politics will not be largely involved in all these things? The specific question is – how did 45% of GDP come into being as a debt sustainability limit? We have to say that there is no mathematics that will say that the master criteria of 60% are just 60%, not some others, but in Serbia the question is – what is the total debt of Serbia? To remind you, debt states represent direct borrowings, indirect borrowings, the debt of local self-government guaranteed by the state, commitments taken. The debt of the state is also an arrangement with the IMF. When Governor Jelasic was here, he explicitly said the debt to the IMF was also the debt of the state. When you look at the new report, signed by the new governor, he says the external debt of the Republic of Serbia, according to the IMF methodology, includes, in addition to the reprogrammed debts and new borrowings and obligations of the NBS. It means the IMF, but it also means all those unregulated liabilities and clearing debt. Now do these 45% according to the IMF methodology or according to the methodology and the Ministry of Finance? It is said that these two methodologies differ and the difference is not small. The difference is 7% of gross social product or two billion dinars. The law says, general debt of the state, how are we going to read? Are we going to read that one day with what the National Bank says, because the National Bank is also responding to this National Assembly or are we going to read it according to the methodology of the Ministry of Finance? The finance ministry argues that Serbia's public debt is 36% of the gross social product, according to the latest data of ten years ago, but if this 1% of the new debt is added from a few days ago that the government adopted, and the Assembly is to discuss, 250m euros is the government's debt, which is yet to come to the Serbian Parliament, it is 1% of GDP, so if that is still the 7% of the NB-related, we reach the 45% limit. What is particularly important, it is – to determine the risk of changing course. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance say in their documents, since our debt is mostly in foreign currency, it is very sensitive to the change in course. The change in course of only 10% increases public debt by an additional 3%. That's all the risks we're exposed to. What is quite clear is that these risks will not be removed for years to come. Clearly, the way the deficit was filled has also experienced serious problems. The idea that Serbia is in debt by selling state bonds on a 12-month maturity has passed quite infamously. Those auctions are quite unsuccessful. That's why we're going for some other models. Secondly, how much Serbia and what reputation does Serbia have in the eyes of creditors? That is best said in the interest rates that Serbia is in charge of. Creditors, setting credit risk and defining credit rates, say in the best possible way what they think of the policy and economic policy that one government is conducting. Allowing data that in the region only BiH has a lower credit rating than Serbia. Serbia is currently in debt on the domestic market at interest rates between 12-14%. On the other hand, in August when we couldn't sell state records or the percentage of auction performance was very small and at 12% to 14%, Croatia sold six-month records at an interest rate of 3.3%, Montenegro at 3.36%, Bulgaria had no less than two-and-a-half years in 2010, and the interest rate was 3.4%. Macedonia pays 5% interest if it has a foreign exchange clause of 4.7%. It is interesting that Romania, which has the same inflation as Serbia, offers investors only 7% on records, and the records sold even 6.5%. It is enough to look at the size of the interest ratio, so you will see how little trust this economic policy leaves to creditors and how much expensive interest rates Serbia owes. I wish it were true what it says in the explanation that the adoption of this law will improve the country's credit rating, but it's not very convenient and it's not exactly in sight. Where should the fiscal council be established and determined, assess fiscal policy? Interestingly, it is also one of the basic jobs of the National Assembly, since the National Assembly is doing the same job. As colleagues have noted, if you have three members of the fiscal council who will be independent of politics, and then you say that they are proposed by the President of the Republic, so the governor who was also proposed by the President of the Republic, then the finance minister, then the question – how will they have a critical note towards economic policy? In what way will they have understanding, if it turns out, and that there are some unforeseen difficulties? No need to be fooled, the budget represents a policy position and spending public finances is also a matter of policy. That's why the parties go to the polls, fight for a particular policy and try to realise that policy, implement their programme and exercise power. It is the basis of every democratic arrangement. How the fiscal council will deal with the election being held within a year and a half. When we were away from the election and were able to deal with all the problems we faced, how will we determine these rules in the election year and say that there are no circumstances that violate these rules? It's a very big challenge and it's a very big courage to predict such things. It is clear that next year the deficit will be very high. It is clear that inflation will continue to be unstable and high, a team before we are expected to have a series of energy gatherings that further draw all other purchases. It's clear there won't be a drop in interest and interest rates. It is clear that the recovery of the economy is entirely uncertain. They're all the problems we're going to face. That's what the perspectives of the next years are like in front of us. How much this law will be able to fix the situation. The best law must be respected. The worst or the worst law to be respected is certainly better than the good law to be broken. What are the perspectives and what is the guarantee that this government will not break the law? This law re-establishs and lays down rules relating to internal audit. Should the Assembly have an internal auditor? I think so. Does the Assembly have an internal auditor? No, I don't. What did the government do that all those ministries that were reported to the DRI were supposed to establish an internal audit, to establish it? It's proof that the law is respected. The second thing, this law that is now in force determines some kind of deadlines, right? One of the deadlines is for the memorandum on economic and fiscal policy to be adopted by 15 May. At the Finance Ministry site, I saw that the memorandum was adopted only in August 2010. So, a few months after that deadline. That's the respect of that law. In the procedure of the 2009 Final Budget Act, was the deadline of July 15th? It's not. You didn't complete the bill, and you had a deadline that's been over two months. Then how can we be sure that you will follow the rules that we are establishing today, if almost no rule that has been in force so far has been observed? These are Serbia's perspectives and that is the belief that this law will be respected. If this is how you respected these standards that weren't too binding, I'm not sure you'll respect what's full of commitment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44057	The time spent by the deputy president of the parliamentary group is 16 minutes. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44058	I share the satisfaction of Madam Minister that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System is on the agenda, but I cannot share the satisfaction of the solutions proposed in this proposal. I have absolutely nothing to add and take away the principles that are defined in this law, or the rules that this law proposes. They are not only acceptable, but desirable. This bill does not provide mechanisms for meeting these rules, procedures and requirements proposed by the existence of a fiscal responsibility law, which is put in place this time through the Budgetary System Act. I'm going to tell you two steps backwards from the existing law, which may not be so obvious to others. But to you, Madam Minister, to all those who are concerned and to us who want to see how public funds are managed, this setback is obviously in two members of the law that I will now quote. One thing about the list of users of public funds in that consolidated vault account, where they help you all the same, taking away a little of the rights that will be found on that list, or who will be controlled, is my basic remark that I will explain to you. It also concerns Article 1, where the users of public funds are subject to individual provisions of this law, and not all, which is also an objection, must be applied to everything. First of all, I have to point out that these are actually restrictions in the application of normally good rules and procedures on fiscal responsibility, and that this is a setback that I refer to as conditioned by a coalition that forms the ruling majority and, freely, I can say, no offense to the character of individuals who want to ask and decide everything. And that's not you, Madam Minister, but someone around you who would a little bit gnaw out of your jurisdiction when it suits them, so the governor leaves you with that foreign exchange control, or payment traffic abroad, even though he's in charge, so that you can answer when there's a problem. So the other ministers and vice-president of the government are giving you responsibility and keeping the list, but to make it up, that's where the statistics authority will help you. What's interesting? All those who find themselves in a consolidated vault account on that list that you publish at the end of the year are under the watchful eye of a good finance minister and someone who claims to be, which I see in you, one responsible person who wants to put this country's finances under control. But if, from the past law, you are now still valid, that Article 8, now the amendment of Article 4, change or make you agree to such a change, and they say that the Republic Authority in charge of statistics will once a year, in cooperation with you, determine a list of budgetary and out-of-Budget users, etc., and leave you a job to take care of that list, means control over those who fail to get under your watchful eye and a careful hand that takes care of what you sign, what does that lead to? This means that whoever is not on the list in the Treasury and under your supervision, he will not have to do much that limits and regulations this law, because Article 1 says that certain provisions do not apply to all users of public funds. Now I ask you and ask the public – is the form in front of the essence? Does one institution, the statistical authority, know better the structure of an enterprise, the means of which it is founded, the property it has, the way it is decided, does the state really have any kind of rights that it has in the company, the body, the agency, what are these para-state institutions already called, that are being taken out of control? What fiscal responsibility or control of public funds can we talk about if we go back to the Budgetary System Act, exactly where we have a list of people to control? Obviously, it's a setback, and there's no one who can convince me that you need this help. No, you don't need it, but you're stricter than those who want to ask themselves and get some out of this control, and you know perfectly well how much such agencies have been under discussion because of their salaries, because of the way they spend money, that they collect at the state monopoly of issuing various permits, consent, reports, etc. I really think that the amendment that we have submitted to this member and which is returning, that is, retaining the existing solution, must be accepted, if you hold to your dignity and honor, or to the control of money over the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Most importantly, this fiscal responsibility law provides that we must not run away from our existing economic policy, growth indicators, consumption indicators putting into tables that apply the whole modern world. It's nothing to argue with. I don't mind delivering a report on my work in any kind of table that compares both the IMF and the World Bank and everyone we work with. I even find it completely unnecessary for someone to draw into the first plane that we have to take care first of all of the loans and the repayment of the debt, because the responsible authority and the responsible man takes care when he raises the loan, when he borrows the money, and when he takes it, there's no speech, he has to pay it back. It's the relationship of the SNS to the obligations that will be encountered or that you have today. At a time when we are discussing and writing amendments to this law, several media outlets in prime terms are referred to a penalty that will go up to 0.2% of the country's GDP if it does not repay the debt it has and if by chance the advantage pays the pensions, salaries, welfare, education or any debt it already has. Do you know what that means to us? Like you say, we're introducing rules of bonton, where it's really forbidden to spit on the floor. Every normal man knows that it's forbidden, not just rude, rude and unhealthy, but that no one does it normally, and that whoever accepts the obligations, he knows that he has to repay the debts first, and then invests in other purposes. But consistency in the obligations that we have, as a state, towards foreign creditors and lenders of the sea, Madam Minister, is to be carried out and when you treat this law, for example, by placing free funds. Now tell me, were we really right when we asked you to be the only one who wondered about the free funds? And today, we say, where can there be free funds to place, to interest in banks, if local self-government owes workers and suppliers, and if the state owes its public enterprises, and has taken over guarantees that they owe certain obligations, if the state owes some of its payments? Or, we've had our last few days to hear, how does this skillful methodology shift from this year to next? So the responsibility in its basic settings, when we're in charge, when we think and calculate whether or not we have a place to return from, that's the logic of every responsible man. The state has to get ahead of it, and it doesn't have to force it, and it's a shame to force the IMF or anyone, because we have to step up with the world, in terms of reporting clear and true data, as you said here, in principle of accuracy. Is that accuracy also done for the Republic of Serbia's budget? No, it's not. I am surprised by my colleague from the Committee on Finance, Mr. Kasalovic, when he agreed with the right of the state to spend on the budget, if for some other purposes the money couldn't be spent, that the part that could not be spent was directed at something that wasn't in the budget. So it's possible that where there's not enough resources, we can reroute what hasn't been spent. It is possible not to plan unforeseen circumstances, it is not possible to perform a precise account at the moment of budget adoption, but that someone is looking for flexibility in the name of, and referring to the accuracy of the planning, which you have as the exact definitions in the law, and you are asking that the budget spends what was not intended, is it not then devising and voting the budget regardless of what is a fully defined sum of defined differences between the permanent budget reserve, etc. You have a constant budget reserve, you have its designated height, and you have the opportunity to reroute where it is insufficient, but to spend where it wasn't planned at all! Because you can't break a little law, you can't steal a little; you can't break the law, or you can't break it; you can either do it by procedure or you can break procedure. So it's inadmissible that this kind of flexibility is allowed to be a state that has to be an example of seeing everyone else. Instead of doing so by the state, the responsible minister I consider you to be, but without enough support, I know that I don't help you when I give you due recognition by giving the fact of your desire to put the money under control and I know that you don't like it when I say it, but you don't have enough support in that, and that's a fact. Is the fiscal council a guarantee to help you and the citizens that money will be spent for intended purposes and transparently? I don't think it's the extra cost. If you allow even now a huge amount of funds to go to a shortcut called the Funding Regulation for various purposes, subsidies, open and hidden, and where you do not have a return account for the invested dinar. And where it is not satisfied, and you certainly know that, in 1964, Mr. Maknamara's rule, the Secretary of Defence in America, was applied, which introduced a planning and budgeting system with a requirement that at least in the third year, every dollar invested from budget to budget, would re-enter that invested dollar. The SNS has been doing an analysis of what is part of the funds that has been allocated through the Commission Development Fund, and what is asked Minister Dinkic and signed, where it is funded to open jobs with 2,000 euros per new job, and here we have taken into account all the returns of taxes, contributions and wages, and what can be returned by synergy effect to the budget, and we have received a bill to return only 88 money to the invested dinar. Where one job is paid 10,000 euros, the return rate is 17 in the budget, and the entire dollar is given. So, you don't have, and you have to have now, the way you calculate, and the technique has reached perfection, and if it was done in the United States in 1964, what if we didn't accept good practice? If you had the fear of predicating financial transactions or banks to which we provide stability, not being the first, but some of them are already doing it, but in particular, why don't we apply what's proven to give good results in asset control? Whether this will help us now, whether the fiscal council will allow us to do so, therefore, the fiscal council, which will count for the start of 19 people, of which will be 15 special advisors, and four of them will be professional staff. It's not a joke if coffee is drunk off the machine, so plastic glasses are thrown, so if we don't have a coffee cook, if there's a cleaning agency you're going to provide them with, so it goes as a cost, and not the ones who are constantly employed, I wonder if the fiscal advice will look like that joke that's circulating among economists, about the rower who was fired because he had 17 helms, and he was the only rower. When he got fired for bad results, because he had 17 corporals, and he was the only one working, you know what the consulting team did? He's working on a new ship structure. That's how we behave when it comes to control and fiscal responsibility. Will the fiscal council be able to process and give an opinion on the amendments that are under way, what capacity and whether from these small, for the start of 81 million dinars in the first year, in the second 85 million and in the third near 90 million dinars a year, just for wages and expenses? Although I don't understand, because if in the first year it takes close to 80 million to give 20 million to the equipment, and the salaries are 51 million, that in the next year and the third year the total cost of this fiscal council will rise, and the wages are growing slightly, they've already been equipped, but they'll have some expenses. You're saying it's not a significant expense. For this Serbia, every dinar is significant, but without a single sentence of explanation, as you say the savings will be 25 billion dinars in the budget, because we will introduce a fiscal council. I believe I'm an average intelligent person, I'm very careful, I've been trying to find that savings somewhere, and you know what it looks like to me? To that self-relameration of the accepted report on the cutting of the rules, which is otherwise uglyly referred to as guillotine, where as we talk about abolishing regulations that are not right, which are still too high by the regulations that we change every two weeks, we waste money through the Development Fund with the effects that I was talking about, where in one case, only 17 money is returned. Could all of this really have been arranged by law, as you say here in the proposal? Probably because it was necessary to use exactly the terms used by other countries and where they are maximum indeterminate, so it is said to be distributed among generations. It's like you say -- it's been spent in one ministry illegally two million dinars, but you don't give us the structure of these unwarranted costs. What does this intergenerational solidarity and concern about future generations mean that we don't know what structures they are, not classes, but what structures are spending all of what we have hired and of which we don't have the effect that we can vote for what you're talking about? Is it enough to explain when you say that from the current reserve and the operating costs, what we economists call "expension" will now be transferred to capital investments? What do you say – international accounting standards? No, it's not, because the NIP Act tells us that under investment were both painting and buying chairs. With my time running out, I'll continue in further discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44059	The word is from Ambassador Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44060	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable People's MPs, I think we are on the agenda today really faced with an important draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, which is in fact the implementation of the Fiscal Responsibility Act in the very Law on the Budgetary System. Since in the past 40 minutes we've been partially separated from the subject, I feel the need for MPs, and, above all, citizens, to remind me again of what we're talking about here today. So it's a law that has no absolute party colour, which is a completely professional attempt to establish Serbia's public finances on the basis of which it will allow their medium- and long-term functioning, which will have nothing to do with which political party or political coalition is in power, government or majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it would be a good idea for this law to get a much wider support in the National Assembly, but in practice, if we read the terms carefully, we are talking about 2015, and in some parameters that the fiscal council will set up after that, so we are talking about several election cycles that will be treated by the adoption of this law, so I see no reason to turn this one serious and responsible debate into an expression of personal sympathy and antipathy towards certain ministers. But, of course, everyone has the right to fight for their views in the way he thinks it's best. I will say, because of the citizens of Serbia, that this law is certainly not a law that will bring about some current improvement and better life for Serbian citizens and should not be guided by that argument. That's one, I'd say, technical and technocratic law that puts order into public finances. It comes from an assumption that not only for Serbia, it is characteristic of all more or less organised democratic societies, which is that there is one intensity and the desire of politicians to coordinate public finances with election cycles and that one analysis can determine that, as we approach the elections, there is pressure that there may be more spending than possible and what is realistic, in order for this consumption to turn into some electoral benefit. We, as a state, have made huge progress over the past ten years and these days marked the tenth anniversary of the changes that have occurred. When we criticise everything that has happened over the past ten years, and we often forget ourselves, who have been part of the ruling coalition for the past ten years, we must never forget, and I want to remind both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia that in that decade, which preceded these ten years of democratic change, was an economic situation in which 150 billion euros in potential social product were lost. So, when we talk today about whether the return to one invested dinar is as big or as big as it is, it is a very serious analysis and requires a complete argument, but we must also talk about that in ten years Serbia lost 150m euros in a potential social product, so we can calculate how much pension, wages and social assistance it is, and how many people today live poorer and worse because of that fact. Of course, it's a question of the past and we have no intention of dealing with it, we intend to talk about what this law means for public finances in the future. I think it's a good thing that ultimately an option is chosen to go through one formula to adapt to a fiscal deficit that is in line with the country's economic movements. As far as I know, it was the first option to go along a linear path to a gradual reduction in the fiscal deficit from year to year. Of course, it ignored the fact that after perhaps the economic recession that was last year, we are waiting, hopefully all, for a better time in the next period. And then the introduction of fiscal rules that explicitly, through the formula, regulate the amount of fiscal deficit at the general level, at the level of the state, is certainly one measure that should enable the anticyclicity of fiscal policy, therefore, that in the periods when it goes well, when the social product is close to a potential social product, when growth is greater, then we have the opportunity to achieve maybe a surplus. And in times when the economy is in crisis that we have room to have maybe a higher deficit than that target deficit, because the role of the state in the crisis is very important. I think that's what our country showed during 2008 and 2009. There have been many different criticisms, from different positions, why the state intervened in 2008 and 2009, but I don't think there is any serious and responsible government in the world that hasn't used fiscal intervention to contribute, prevent and reduce this period of economic activity. The world's leading economy spent hundreds of billions of euros, primarily by intervention in the banking sector, to save banks that were under collapse. We helped businesses through loans that were subsidized, so they could maintain their current activity. I think it's important that the bill regulates that the general level of debt of the state does not exceed 45%. I especially want to point out, I don't think anyone's mentioned it so far, the fact that behind that 45% figure is that this public debt does not involve restitution, which is a very important issue. Because I think we have an economic, political and moral commitment to people who are looking for their assets that have been taken away from them in an illegal way, to solve this issue and to use it in this way, I'd say, the trunk that exists between 45% of our debt, which we've plotted here in the fiscal liability law and some debt that is meant to be, the master criteria of 60%, so in this vacuum, we can carry out the process of correcting injustice against people whose property is nationalized. In addition to these elements concerning general affairs, to limit the general fiscal deficit of the state, plus the public debt, I think it's important that the provision of the law and the intensity to change the structure of expenditure. So we are the state with the highest pension and public sector salaries in the region. Regardless of the relatively high expenditure, individual salaries are not high because our social product per capita is quite low. By changing this structure and by detaching a larger amount of investment funds, I think that the path that will allow, above all, the maintenance of the existing pension system on a real basis and establishing the basis that in the future, pensioners from the budget and the public sector can expect real wage growth, which would naturally follow the full change in prices, so inflation, and in one part of the growth of the social product. We have to say that over the past ten years as a state, we have spent more than we've done, that our increases in demand are covered by a high external trade deficit, and that's why in the next period of this matter we have to even it out. What is also important to us is the fact that an independent professional body is being introduced -- fiscal advice. I would say that we as a Parliament are primarily verifying proposals, I would not say that we choose members of the fiscal council, but I have no doubt that the proposals will be good, since they come from the governor, the finance minister, the president of the Republic. Certain criteria have also been set out to guarantee that the proposed staff solutions will certainly be in line with the needs to be one responsible and important body. I don't think the law is so prominent, but that practice will lead to an extremely close co-operation of the fiscal council with the DRI. In a broader sense, these are the two bodies that work, practically, the same or similar work and problems and the troubles that we have all had together, but also the support that we have given the DRI and the growth of the impact of this professional body's independence speak for the fact that there are many areas where their cooperation can certainly give a synergistic effect, and in any case it is defined that the DRI controls the work of the fiscal council, but I believe that there will not be much work and that this work will be done in the right way. Of course, here is a question and an opportunity to answer the remarks of my dear colleague Mr. Pastor, who was very diplomatic, but also spoke very openly about the issue of public property law. Yes, we have said, as the United Regions of Serbia, that we will insist that the law on public property is on the agenda of the assembly's autumn session. Here, in front of the minister, in front of the MPs, in front of the citizens, we repeat it in front of our voters, and we will insist on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44061	Before I give my word to the next speaker, I would like to inform the National Assembly that a representative of the ZES Group has been authorised by Parliament MP Branko Ljiljak. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, in your opening statement, according to the SRS, you were not until the end, but quite inconclusive. A man is inconclusive when he doesn't believe he's defending himself or doing the right job. This is why we think so and why our attitude is like that. I wrote it down here, when you came to the fiscal council in your discussion, you said it so quickly, and the shto, he only has three members, and his tasks are that, that and that. That is so true, he has three members, but he also has a budget in the next year of 70 million. Of those 70 million, you plan to spend 50 million on the salaries of those who will work under the council. Now we can't just go through with it. We think it's quite ironic that we're talking fiscal responsibility here, talking about the poor structure of public spending, and that through the law that concerns it, we're making a commitment that in the next year, 70 million, again, on the burden of taxpayers, through the budget, we're giving ourselves the salaries of a single body. That's ironic. In the next year, there'll be more of you, etc. When you touched the fiscal council, you said here that it should be objective, or independent. We should believe that there will be an independent council proposed by one member by the DS president, another member by the governor proposed by the DS president, and the third member is proposed by a minister representing the party of Boris Tadic, or DS. We now need to believe that this will be independence, that there will be objective attitudes and a correct relationship, i.e. a healthy and rational relationship with what is the government's economic policy and that there will be some shifts in the context of fiscal responsibility of the collection. That's why you were inconclusive, because you know that as nice and written as it is to apply, an adequate application in practice, at least while this economic policy is in force, this government will not find. That's why, after all, besides what my party colleagues are about to say, we definitely can't support something like this. What else is controversial here? Why don't you start with an explanation? Now you assure us that the size of public consumption is inadequate, and its structure. Do they have the name and name of those who are responsible for it? I don't mean the name or the name of the man or the person. Who's to blame for such a structure? Who's to blame for that size? It's all the fault of some other governments or the root of this problem at some other time. In the last ten years, your party has at least been in power for seven years. You cannot commit us to fiscal or any other responsibility until you look yourself in the mirror and say – we are to blame for this and this; until you send a clear message to us in parliament, but also to the public of the Republic of Serbia, we have made problems here and here, this time to solve them. Now you, as promoters of fiscal chaos and irresponsibility, are going to demand that someone in the public sector institutions be fiscally responsible. You can't expect anyone to rule any other way than the government's ministers, the creators of this country's economic policy. I'm interested in one thing now, not wanting to get into the controversy. Be careful, Mr. Senic said earlier, we realized that we could no longer go for consumption, among other things, but it was meant to be understood two, three or five months ago, when this party or that minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, promoted a new type of consumption, i.e. consumer loans of 300,000 dinars. It's fiscal irresponsibility. Let's make a problem, so when the problem collapses on the back of all Serbia, then we become responsible. It can't do that. In this Serbia, the problem, when it comes to fiscal policy, is solely import. There are no fiscal problems in this Serbia. It all came with a global economic crisis. Look at what you wrote. Where the problems are, in the time before us, we lifted some taxes, reduced tax rates and introduced subsidies. Is that the only problem with the budget, or the deficit? You know it's not. There is no courage or political will to say where the problem is. How long it takes a man fiscally to be uncultured, so you can drive him out of the public sector and buy him three apartments a year afterwards. Tell me, where are the mechanisms in this law, that the state is adequately reckoning with fiscally irresponsible in this regard. There aren't any in this law. The state has mechanisms which, if it had political will, could have been counted with such individuals. We're talking here today, we're passing the law, we're changing the Budgetary System Act, which will improve the culture of fiscal responsibility. Please don't. We're making up a pothole. You, Mrs Dragutinovic, were inconclusive this morning, because you are, and I accept that, lonely, because there is Diana Dragutinovic as a public finance expert and Diana Dragutinovic, who chose to be part of the government, who is leading it, not to express myself more difficult but unreasonable economic policy. You make a statement and you don't hide in public that you're lonely. What do you expect from us? Whom will you call to account when the ministers sitting next to you cannot understand? You stayed lonely in the need to implement tax reform, etc. Please don't. We can't argue that technical things are beautifully written, but they're practically not going to produce anything and you know it well. This is playing with the time of the congregation, taking and wasting our time. Basically, no effects on the field after this, or with this, they won't feel. Some of the things you wrote here may even be bordering on a scandal. I'll try to explain it a little bit later, I'll get to it anyway. Here, let's say, when we talk about fiscal principles. You have general, special, and there are principles of justice, responsibilities, etc. We believe in the principles of responsibility, let's say, the policy suffered by the directors of public enterprises. A policy that doesn't have the courage to tell the Deposit Insurance Agency that it can no longer be paid by 200,000 dinars. Do you know, Madam Minister, that the head of the Red Cross Office in the Vranje municipality has a salary as the basic salary of the MP? What responsibility are we talking about? What responsibility does the government require of us? The presidents of the municipalities have more salaries than the President of the Republic. Where does this law say you'll deal with it? It does not say anywhere, nor will you, because there is no political will, because the principles of fiscal responsibility will always be determined by the needs of the political consensus in the government you are sitting in. We'll all put up with it and feel fat on our skin. You speak further of principles, the principle of transparency. There's no transparency without the programming budget. I understand you can't make a programming budget in a year, two, three or five. You've been waiting ten years. As much as it takes to promote this in the context of Europe, governments have done so. Now you convince us that the fiscal council should provide savings at an annual level of 25 billion, and it is estimated that, with the programme budget of the state of Serbia, at this point, it can provide 35 billion. It was an exceptional mechanism for you to curb the minister's discretionary rights, to write to you in time, where and for what and for what purposes they will spend the money they have and represent the taxpayers' money of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, one particular principle of governance of public assets and liabilities, economic resources, in a way that will not burden future generations. Now, watch the irony, you've admitted that we're adopting this law as one of the international obligations. International obligation, first of all, towards the IMF. You know, but Serbia definitely doesn't know how much money the IMF owes, and how many generations back that money will pay back, and now that institution, which has put us in charge of our guilt and responsibility, or yours, commits us to the principle of fiscal responsibility in the context of generations to come. But they're not asking because they care about generations, they're trying to provide us with the principal of the debt and interest they're going to charge us. They're smart, unlike us, and they know what they want, but we just don't know what we want and we don't recognize our national interest in the sphere of public finance, and they sure as hell know what they're doing. That's, as far as they're concerned, extra. But the irony is greater when you take and analyze why you pulled those loans. You boast about the control of the projected deficit, you know how -- because capital consumption suffers from a public consumption contortion, so four times you open one and the same part of Corridor 10. We control it, but there's no political will to oppose what I listed at the beginning, which is agencies, directorates and riders, chaos and wages, etc. You may want to be a professor yourself, but as a minister in this government, you can't do it or you will. That is why Serbia needs different policies, different strategies and other people. You can't do this, as much as you're willing to pour on paper and edit it in one modern and in any other sense acceptable manner. Next, we no longer have a memo, now we'll have a report. You've changed that. There's one part here that says - the procedure for making a report on the fiscal strategy. You, Mrs Dragutinović, have entered a budget calendar in the Budgetary System Act, right? I ask you, has anyone in Serbia been responsible for the fact that the budget calendar has not yet been respected? No one answered, no one will. In this law, you change the budget calendar, you put it together. I think there are four new dates in the budget calendar. I think so, but it's not that important. I ask you, what will happen to those who cannot disrespect this budget calendar? You did not create mechanisms to ensure the implementation of the budget calendar, because the application of the calendar makes sense. Do you want to plan in the medium and long term? It's okay, you want to plan funds for this year and for next year, it doesn't matter. The application of the calendar makes sense, but there is no will to be respected. Now look at this, in the same law that you provide for a budget calendar and must respect it, says -- a draft strategy report preparing the minister, submits to the fiscal council within the foreseen budget calendar. In paragraph 3, it shall read – with or without fiscal advice provided, unless it has been delivered within the prescribed time limit. What do you need a budget calendar for, what do you need advice for, what do you need opinions if it's not delivered within the calendar time limit? You're playing with laws, institutions, dates and obligations. The obligations you insist on and the ones you seek, you play with them, in the end and with the people. Unfortunately, it all ends up in pain and playing with the people. Since I don't have enough time, look at the same article as the last one. On Thursday, representatives of the majority broke our heads with the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure, and in order to adopt this, they discussed the affirmation of the control function of the National Assembly, that is, the Assembly’s working bodies. See what you wrote in the law – if, on a proposal from the Minister, he decides to amend and supplement the report on the fiscal strategy on the basis of recommendations made by the National Assembly? Cancel the Assembly. What do you need advice for, what do you need anyone for? Tell the government what to do and it's over. That is the possibility you foresee by law, that the Government will decide whether or not it will accept what the Assembly should in some way commit it to. What country do we live in? This is a game, this is a joke. That's why you were inconclusive. You know who you're dealing with better than we are, or maybe you've estimated that this congregation majority is up to something, so you've predicted this as a mechanism to defend yourself, because who knows what conditions are in the coalition and who knows who's going to blackmail in the coalition in the next five or six months. You were not once forced into consensus to accept unreasonable political decisions of the coalition, which were completely incompatible with fiscal policy and the rules of responsible fiscal behaviour. You know exactly what you've been going through. If it's a mechanism to defend yourself from them, then we can really accept it. As for this formula and the equations that you have introduced into the law, it can be exact, but all the circumstances that will affect and define the parameters that you have entered into the equation in this country are unpredictable with this policy, and that is very ambitious – 1% to be a middle deficit. Whatever period you want to take into account how growth is projected in the world, how many numbers they come out with, this is, I would say, quite ambitious, and knowing the policy, the economic policy of the government, which you're going to have to frame and frame in this formula, we can think about what it's going to look like. Also, as far as restitution is concerned, if you haven't wasted the state, the political stance of the SRS is against it, but since you are calling for a restitution here, you cannot take the laws seriously because you have prepared the state in administrative and in any other sense prepared for your political projects and ambitions. You have no market, no land prices, no property. There is nothing in this country that would allow you to carry out your restitution properly. What does that mean, 45%? Can one of you tell me what the amount of funds for that restitution of yours is? What's the next 45? Will it be installed and framed 60 percent, which is the standard of some developed and serious states? I touched the budget calendar just before. You agreed with him. God forbid you're willing to respect him, here, if you can guarantee me that you've also used this budget calendar in the last year, that I'm not speaking in the context of the day of adoption of the budget, if you convince me that the ministers sent you proposals within the deadline, when it was March or April, the 2011 budget, on which basis you should be doing the projection, here I will respect and welcome it. It then talks about fiscal audits or internal audits and controls, etc. In Serbia for internal audit when it comes to the public sector, we wouldn't even know if it wasn't for the three reports, which unfortunately found that only five ministries have that control or an internal audit, don't take my word for it now, but things are devastating. In the end, since I don't have any more time, the only thing you've done precisely, developed, worked out are salaries on the council, who, as well as how much pay he'll have, from the president of the council, the special advisor, and the possibility of having outside associates.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44063	National MP Vlajko Senic has been registered in the registration system. You have no right to a replica. Before we move on to the debates on application for word, on the basis of Article 27(2) of Article 90 and Article 87(3), I would like to inform the National Assembly that today we will be working even after 1800 hours of debate which at that time was the subject of our work, and that the usual one-hour break today will be set from 14:00 to 15.00 hours. With this in mind, I would also like to inform you that the notice from RTS that today, on 4 October, of the 1650 hours, due to previous programme obligations to transfer the Serbia-Argentin World Men's volleyball match in Italy, will be interrupted by direct transmission, and the video of the continuation of the Serbian Parliament will be broadcast from 21.30 a.m. on the 2nd RTS programme. People's MPs haven't heard what day. Monday, October 4th. It's all about today's work. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written word, and with a number of MPs submitted parliamentary groups – the SPS-JS, Nova Srbija, DSS, LDP, ZES, Advanced Serbia and the SRS parliamentary group. The first to be reported on the list of speakers by application for a word in the principle of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System is MP Milisav Petronijevic, followed by MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44064	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system is essentially a law, regardless of what is called, on determining fiscal responsibility and for these reasons, the Law on the Budgetary System is extended and complemented by provisions that determine fiscal responsibility and strengthen financial discipline. The position of the SPS-JS parliamentary group on this bill was presented by our authorised representative, Mr Kasalovic, and I would not like to repeat it. I only want to keep your attention for one question. Financial rules are introduced in order to achieve financial responsibility. She can be general. I can be special. We consider it right to pass such a law that determines financial responsibility, which places an emphasis on strengthening financial discipline and which is determined by financial rules in order to achieve this financial responsibility. However, if, in addition to these general ones, discussed by counterpart Kasalovic, we look at a little better specific rules, we will see that there are actually three things, three issues, which is a growth in public sector earnings, pension growth and limitations in financing local self-government. There is a sentence here that says that the largest part of the financial rules, with the goal of achieving that desired financial deficit, is these three things. I want to ask the government to pay attention to some others, even if it's a small part. The second thing I want to do is call on the government to look again at this part of the law relating to fiscal rules for the following reasons – when it comes to public sector growth and pension growth, they follow in 2011 and 2012, in the same way as consumer prices, and as it stands here – half of GDP growth in the previous quarter. That's good. What is not good in our opinion – as we have been separate since 2013. From 2013 to 2015, income growth in the public sector continues on the principle of consumer price developments plus one half of GDP growth, if positive, and pension movements introduce a new rule, which is aside from consumer prices and a GDP difference that is higher by 4%. It is, which is, of course, the aim of this law, financially sustainable, but I call on the government to look again, because in addition to being financially sustainable, it has to be socially sustainable. So let pensions continue to grow or fall, share the same fate of all those who use the budget for wages. As of 2013, 2014, 2015 has also increased the same way public sector wages have been growing. No matter how much it may be. In that case, I think it is the government's obligation to look again and ensure, in addition to financial sustainability, the social sustainability of this financial system. When there's a debate in particular, we'll talk about it in more detail, but it's very important, because this part of the law goes into a new law that needs to come, about PIO, it already regulates the indexation of pensions, it already determines. Let us never forget that the indexation of pensions is the most important issue in the pension system, because it needs to solve two contradictory goals, one is financial sustainability, and the other is adequate, not to say socially sustainable. The reason for my report was just to call on the government once again, until the debate is over and in particular about this law, it looks at this matter, because it can be financially sustainable, and within a longer period of time it can be socially sustainable. So I ask the government, my government, to take another look at it. We are all aware of the necessity of economic reforms, that they must be accompanied by social reforms, but neither can succeed unless they are socially just. Also, I am taking the opportunity for the government to do everything to force social partners, it is known which will not, that the sooner the social dialogue begins on all those issues that are of interest to the widest circle of people and citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44065	Seven minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP Miroslav Markicevic has the word, followed by MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44066	Dear Vice President, before I begin my presentation, I have a question for you, if you'll excuse me. Is it expected to return Mrs. Minister to the O.R. anytime soon, since I would like to speak to her myself, it would not be correct, if she wasn't present, for anyone to speak? Is he coming? (President: National MP, each authorised representative of the Government has the right to occasionally, for various reasons, to leave the session. Minister Dragutinović is in the building, and as soon as she can, she will come, and you will go ahead and use the time of your parliamentary group. ) Well, respected vice presidents, it is of best interest that I realized that the presence of ministers in the government in the adoption of legislative proposals improves some situation for us to conduct dialogue rather than to turn out to be just politicising, possibly addressing only its voters and citizens of Serbia. Respected Serbian citizens watching this direct transmission, although the minister is not present here, I will speak as if she were present. Of course, the draft law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, as I understand it, since I am speaking in principle, implies first and foremost strengthening financial discipline. Folkly speaking, it should become more transparent how the budget, or money, is used, that is, by the citizens during the various fees and taxes, we all put into the budgets of any local self-government, whether the state budget. In that sense, and in this context, I can support the proposal of any law that, at least on paper, strengthens institutions that will control how people's money is spent. In this regard, not only does the Minister have, or the Government, at least in this proposal have the best intentions, not only is it a commitment to the IMF with some deadlines, the international community, the EU, but above all because of us, so that citizens can see more transparently those who may not be economic experts how people's money is spent. With that in mind, I had a few questions for Madam Minister. I'm going to set them up here, and I'm going to leave some more time, if you'll let me call back, maybe it's not in the Rules of Procedure, it would be nicer if she were here, but hopefully somewhere where she's resting, she listens to what the MPs say in the National Assembly. If the adoption of such a law, including the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, implies, above all, strengthening financial discipline, I ask if the Ministry of Finance, or Mrs. Minister, knew 15, 30, 35, 60 days ago, when, now we understand, the leaders of the parties and the ministers in the government said that our oldest citizens, those with the smallest pensions, would get 5,000 dinars? Among us, it's as if they're getting 50,000 dinars, so it's shown in the media and in the statements of those ministers. Did Mrs. Minister know a month ago, even five days ago, that there would be no money in the budget, according to the 5,000 dinars for all pensioners with 29,999 dinars and less? I think she also knew that, in order to strengthen this financial discipline, transparency and openness towards citizens, it was necessary to say the financial and economic situation, the state of the budget. He should have told his colleagues, ministers -- gentlemen, don't make such a statement. That's not correct, that's not fair. I'd even say that's sad for our oldest citizens. There's no money in the budget right now. Maybe there will be if some rebalancing is carried out. That was supposed to be fair. Amongst us, I don't know how to help these 5,000 and 30 days late, but I think it was correct for these citizens, our pensioners, our oldest citizens to be told honestly that on October 1st, there will be no money. That's why I wanted Madam Minister here to say a word about it, not to say she apologized to the citizens. She wouldn't get the crown off her head, which I think she'd get some political point. I still wanted to ask Mrs. Minister, when it comes to budgetary inspection, is there a budget inspection operation here and is it being carried out selectively? I mean, when it comes to controlling local budgets of local self-government, does this budget inspection only go to municipalities where the opposition is in power? The opposition here at the central state level here in the National Assembly of the opposition, but it is the government in certain municipalities and cities. Are these budget inspections evenly or are they being carried out selectively? According to information I have, in some opposition municipalities budget inspections do not come out of city or municipal administrations. I personally and those people who are there in power don't have any problems with it, let the control be done every day, but let it be done there too, Madam Minister, where your party colleagues are in power. As far as the Nisa City budget is concerned, I am sorry that Mr Ilic, as president of the Nisa City Assembly, is not present here, you are the witness, Madam Minister, that the president of the City Assembly, in relation to the spending of the city budget in Nis, in the department of financing of political parties, has personally spoken to you. You wrote, in my opinion, a very professional, smart, correct and honest opinion, and I think the opinion of the finance minister is, when it comes to spending money and from local budgets, the law. What have you done since the authorities in the city of Nis will not continue to act on your solution? I'd like to know exactly what you've done, because our party to New Serbia in Nis has remained, practically, just to call on your solution and file a criminal report? I'd like to know whether or not you're the reason we're supposed to file criminal charges, for failing to carry out our own opinions and our own solutions. I wanted to ask you within these 10 minutes and 48 hours, Madam Minister, what are your intentions? It would be an opportunity to say that, since local self-government, especially these 55 municipalities that are underdeveloped, you know what municipalities are, since from the money promised, from those local transfers seems to be nothing so far, it would be fair and correct to address today and that these people, the officials in these municipalities, hear what the situation in the budget is like, will there be those funds? It was an announcement, and I think it's going to divide some billion by municipalities, by what criteria, by what system? If nothing else, there's going to be a green season, and we know what the situation is with energy, what's going on so people can plan on heating up their municipalities, cities, schools, libraries, etc. Therefore, I would like to hear the answers to these questions, and I am particularly interested in another answer – are you finally able as the Ministry of Finance, is that your jurisdiction, I think, and if you say here that it is not, as always, you know that I have maximum respect for you both as a man, i.e. a woman and an expert, whether you can finally publish a list of companies to Serbia, citizens of Serbia, workers and trade unions, whether they are social, if they still have them, public enterprises or private companies that do not pay mandatory contributions to health, pension and I do not know all the insurance? We constantly have examples that individual ministers in political campaigns go from business to business, connect the emergency internship of people, promise and be there while the cameras are there, it is published by television, and most of all on RTS, which is practically government TV, TV from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and not Serbian citizens, and after two days, nothing. Would you be able to finally publish, in order to be transparent, financial disciplines, whoever they are, what companies are they? Although those 100 biggest debtors who owe the budget, i.e. they owe to pension, health funds, and we know that pensions and health benefits are paid out, people are provided, so that some ministers don't do it directly in some political quasicamps on the spot – you will be paid this, you will be compensated for your internship. All that wouldn't be necessary if all the companies were to pay those obligations they had under the law. Madam Minister, you weren't at the beginning, I hope your associate, I noticed, made a brief statement of what I asked. I think it would be useful for this discussion and for you as a minister, as well as for citizens who expect these answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44067	The remaining time of the parliamentary group is one minute and 15 seconds. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. After that, the People's MP is Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44068	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, the bill sets out the fiscal principles and rules of procedure to ensure the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy in this country. From your optimism at the beginning of today's debate, you obviously see, as well as President Boris Tadic, Serbia in 2015 in the EU. They were alive to see it, but let's go back to the reality that it really is in this country. The law should address the issue of strengthening fiscal responsibility, a prerequisite for improving and managing public finances. Then I don't understand - why are you introducing these fiscal responsibility provisions into the Budgetary System Act? You said yourself, you had eight months to write a comprehensive fiscal responsibility law, not to regulate this matter through changes and additions, unless you want to, as you have so far, because we have repeatedly highlighted the Budgetary System Act, your favorite law, which you have broken countless times, and as far as deadlines and many other things, and then you want to continue with that analogy when it comes to fiscal responsibility. In my opinion, this says more in favor of the fact that this is a commitment you've made for the IMF than you really want to settle fiscal rules in our country. The law provides for a fiscal council to be set up to assess whether the government is running fiscal policy in accordance with the rules. My colleagues, counterpart Obradovic and other MPs, pointed out the completely amazing principle for the election of the fiscal council, and one member is proposed by the president of the Republic, the second finance minister, in this case you and the third governor of the NBS. So all of the president's men will give their candidates. Can anyone in this hall and in this country believe that this body will be politically impartial and independent in carrying out its duties? It is also an interesting provision that the government can deviate from fiscal principles and rules in the event of external shocks affecting human health, safety and the fall in economic activity. Mrs Dragutinovic, we have been in extreme shocks for two years. We're constantly under some kind of shock. This people are completely insane. You have an anaesthetized and stuffed nation. One day you pick something up, you say the next day -- you know, but this is cheap. One day you're pulling out our winter car tires, and you're taking them off the next day. One day you come up with the idea that there's oil, and the next day there's no milk. In this country, the largest excises on gasoline are the lowest for alcohol and cigarettes. Behind this government, if you continue to work like this, there remains desolation, the sand remains. I don't know what else to call it, and you're going to solve all this with one law, or amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. The government is also obliged to submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a report stating the reasons for the derogations, the measures it intends to take and the time period in which the rules will be re-applyed. What measures, Mrs Dragutinović? What measures did the Government of the Republic of Serbia propose to parliament to combat the crisis? And those proposed came at least six months late. You're an example, I said, that you're breaking the Budget System Act, or those three units, November 1st, that was your favorite deadline that you've broken. Is the promise made by your State Secretary, Mr Ilic, that he will soon be in the process of the Denationalisation Act, is it fulfilled? Will this law on denationalisation affect the realisation and implementation of the provisions of this law? Tell us, what is the external debt of this land? We didn't hear that. Is there a difference between the external debt recorded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the one that makes the NBS? The difference is more than three billion, and that's not a little thing. Furthermore, as regards the rules that you provide for some obligations for local self-government, this law provides that local self-government can have a fiscal deficit of 10% of the revenue achieved in that year and that the deficit can be extremely higher if those funds go to the realisation of public investment, with your consent. You know what problems exist in certain local self-governments – transfer funds have been reduced, some local self-governments have not had the opportunity to see the NIP dinar because there are political criteria by which these funds are shared. I'm going to give you an example, let's say the City of Persuasion. Do you know how much that municipality is in charge of? The local government has been making money for the citizens of Prokuplje, and now you need to limit them by law that they will not be able to pay the employees and function normally in the coming period. Someone here said there was a need to pass a law on public property, a law on the property of local self-government. I fully agree with that, but I'm afraid it'll only create a possibility for tycoons to buy in local self-governments in our municipalities and cities what's left and what's worth. We're not telling you this in front of the DSS because we're some autistic guys who, with their Euroscepts, are trying to stop some processes in this country. Far from that, believe me, because we are concerned about where the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy leads to the Republic of Serbia. Why, for example, in this law did you not oblige the state authorities to specify on their site the exact list of suppliers, contracts and value of the goods and services contract they pay? It would be transparent and so Serbian citizens could see what their money is spent on. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia violates the provisions of this law, it should therefore be politically appropriate and, of course, diminished its credibility. Is that really how it's gonna be? Will the media who control the public, and on the other hand the politics control the media, really announce whether there has been a breach of the provisions of these laws? Unlike the Government of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government will have a huge responsibility, will also have financial and administrative responsibility, their transfer funds will be reduced, but let's see if all are treated equally by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or if there are different arches, unless the local government is copied from the level of the Republic. In any case, this law, i.e. the provisions governing this matter, is needed for the Republic of Serbia, but we also saw at the beginning of this debate, primarily because of stopping some political parties that are participating in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and which are only there to increase their rating and to settle the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Because of all this and the many objections we will make and in the debate in particular, the DSS will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44069	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Slobodan Maras, followed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44070	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister and Madam Assistant Minister, I must, Mrs Dragutinović, at the very beginning to draw your attention, you were not on the Finance Committee, there was a gentleman from your ministry and on my remark that although LDP had been back two or three years in favour of co-operation with the IMF and that as a consequence of co-operation with the IMF, that is, the arrangement that you have concluded with them is also the result of this law, he said that this law is not due to it and that he has been preparing for two years. Just as one remark, that what you said today is falling back from what we're told on the Finance Committee. I think this law is great, but it's just technical. Basically, this law doesn't change anything. That's what all my predecessors think they mentioned. The point is, he's a long way from reality. For what? This law will not apply, nor will the previous law. There's the key to our problem, which is the rules in this country and the laws that exist don't respect. We've heard a lot here and about the responsibility and everything else, which I'm going to go back to, but since you're sitting next to a lady assistant who's had a chance with me to be on an interstate consultation that involved a budget process, I'd like to, just because of the other colleagues, and I know that you know that, to remind me how serious countries do it. So, the state of Slovakia, we heard it from the mouth of the former finance minister who is now in opposition, says that each time the Slovak government delivers to them the draft budget at the end of August for next year, the next two months of the opposition, both in its parliamentary clubs and in committees, tries to find the best solutions, returns it to the government and the whole process lasts several months. Countries in the environment are far ahead of Serbia. Even those who lag behind us in every respect are in this respect ahead of Serbia, and since my predecessor just spoke at least twice the names of some films, I'd just like to say, or paraphrase one film, so we live the years of the groundhog, every time it's the same story. Every time we get, the last Friday before the new year, or legal deadline for the adoption of the budget, we get the last five draft budget, in print form, when MPs are not in the Assembly. We need to submit the amendments by Monday, and in the next two or three days, we need to discuss in principle, talk about amendments, and make budgets. I really don't know, that's what I asked on the board -- why do we need to change this law, and why do we need this law when it's not respected? Why do they change budget calendars when they didn't respect each other? There is no responsibility and you know it yourself, and I know that we've agreed before, that unless there's a responsibility when it comes to the calendar budget and I don't know what the need for it is. The fiscal council, the government, is here, and you heard it from Prime Minister Cvetkovic's mouth last Thursday while there was more television transmission, for an oil-gas arrangement, transfers responsibility to the assembly and said the agreement was voted here. A fiscal council is being introduced, and you really think he'll be able to secure responsibility, just like the State Audit Institution. The last we heard from the President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution is that all the problems identified in the 2008 report were also seen in 2009 in the work of the ministries. When he said - public enterprises, he did not go into some important way, that they found basic irregularities, which is that tenders were staged. We'll have a budget rebalance here in 20 days, as I understand it. What's he gonna bring us? Before any debate on this rebalancing, I must also Vice-President of the Assembly, and I also asked the Vice-President of the Finance Committee, when will the 2008 final account be found in front of the MPs? When are we gonna talk about how money is spent, so we can talk about what's going to happen in the future? And to us, Mrs Dragutinović, with all due respect to you as an expert here, should not have, especially in the first part when you spoke in percentages, accounting lectures, but one interpretation of the law which essentially needs to change the relationship when it comes to the budgetary process. I must also say that we do not need a finance minister who is torn apart between the demands of political partners in the government and the commitments made from the arrangement with the IMF. They are not fulfilled thanks to you, and I am deeply convinced that every time you sit with them, it is a hundred unpleasant things, because you are torn apart between various demands. You weren't in a position to fulfill what you took over on behalf of the government, or the state. We supported you every time you came here with a desire to introduce discipline. I have to say, it may be rough, but that shameful Serbian Davos in Kopalnik, when you came up with one proposal to get out of the crisis, and maybe we were in it, and maybe we haven't, and we haven't figured that out yet, but when you made your proposal how do we get out of that crisis, we had a lot of understanding about your proposal. It lasted only until the moment until the Minister for All, i.e. Minister for Economy, came out and said his proposal was completely different, i.e. contrary to yours, and the proposal was adopted in real life. We have heard from the representatives of a political party that makes up the ruling majority here and I hope you will respond to where he said there are more policies in the government. We at the LDP unfortunately don't see any policy, but we would like the government to go out with one policy, especially economic policy. When someone says there's more politics in the government and that's good, I don't think he really understands what he's talking about. As LDP back a few weeks, we've been proposing measures to get out of the crisis, and it's tightly related to this. We've suggested you cancel the VAT on all basic supplies. Mrs Dragutinović, in the first wave you reacted when we proposed, and this concerns Article 27b where fiscal principles are, and says - the principle of justice implies that fiscal policy management is implemented by taking into account its impact on the well-being of current and future generations. That's how you reacted, Mrs Dragutinovic, when we proposed an amendment that affected pensions. After that, you said I wasn't quoting what you said, but you know very well what you said when we met outside the gym about that amendment. And then you didn't accept it, I'm not saying, by your will, but I'm saying, when we talk about justice, we were then suggesting something that would really be just to future generations. Please explain something to me, I talked to my colleagues from my parliamentary group and with colleagues from other parliamentary groups, you here in a member who quotes and Mr Pastor – financing AP, article 24b, and says – receipts from the sale of natural property. What's natural property? I really don't know how to interpret it, but I'd like you to explain to me, is natural property and natural gas storage Banatski Dvor, in which Serbia has invested 100m euros so far, and has moved 51% to the Russian side by four million euros? Will Serbia have any income from it, or Vojvodina as an AP? That's how I interpret natural property. We don't have any explanation here when it comes to that sort of thing. Since there are more speakers from the LDP, I'll leave a minute, but I wanted to tell you just, or a minute for myself, to say the key thing, we can't support this law, because it doesn't really change anything. And we will always support you, Mrs Dragutinović, when you come with the plan, when you are ready to take responsibility and be ready to force those who sit around you to take responsibility by the authority of your function and the authority of your knowledge. We're asking you for perseverance and we really don't want to watch the year of the groundhog when it comes to the budget calendar. Just one more sentence – fiscal principles – the principle of accountability implies when public property management and the obligation to natural resources and fiscal risks are implemented in a way that strengthens fiscal sustainability. I wanted to ask you if you know that a public company, very popular in the last two years, paid two salaries in July, even though it's in terrible debt? So 13 salaries were paid in one company. Since you have a State Auditing Institution, ask them when they will enter the company, and you certainly have opportunities, since you are the founder of the company, to see which company it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44071	Ten minutes and 20 seconds have been used by the MP's group. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic is not in the hall, then MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic has a word, and after that, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44072	I will continue to discuss the proposed law in the sense that promotional principles and rules are desirable and acceptable, but that the law does not have mechanisms for fulfilling neither fiscal responsibility nor accuracy of planning, nor public insight into means of spending. To be specific on the law itself, for example, Article 30. Under Article 30, the law now obliges the Ministry and the Government, which is responsible for drawing up a list of assets available to the Republic of Serbia and that one report could be used to draw up the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget for the previous year. The 30th member predicts that the finance ministry draws up a report on the structure of the asset, based on reports received by the beneficiaries of funds owned by the Republic of Serbia. Based on the asset user's report. Every citizen of Serbia knows that, here is the freshest example, a Chinese investment has been questioned, because the country that was sold to it for the construction of a shopping centre to one of the companies, and behind it is the state of China, the question has been whether a company has actually sold state property. During the sale of the Slave Houses, we had over-incomes over bankruptcy in the bankruptcy that was divided by the law, done by Mr Dinkic, now Minister of Economy and Regional Development. Make it up, open up the bankruptcy, and you get a surplus, but it happened that property that wasn't the property of the Slave House was sold to the state of Serbia. I only took two striking examples where the subject of the sale was property owned by the state of Serbia, and sold by others as state-owned or private property. Since 1994, when the Fund Act was adopted in the possession of the Republic, we are talking in 2010 about a list of assets the beneficiary of which is the state of Serbia and we say that we will make up the list based on the user report. If it is no longer the users who provide reports to the state, how many such examples, and was it possible for this to happen to this day, and you have been given the responsibility to make that list? Yes, it was possible because since 2001, in the application of the Privatisation Act, it was possible to lose thousands of squares of business space, hundreds and thousands of hectares of land and not enter into the credibility of the documentation, even accounting, which is delivered as a balance sheet of property in the prospectus for privatisation. What do I want to tell the citizens of Serbia? Yes, once it has to be started by cleaning and sorting the house, billing, precise terminology, list of assets, list of obligations, but you can't base that start on the report, but, as we ask for an amendment, ask for you to be delivered and the rules to prescribe credible accounting documentation, because the flow through the papers, from the owner to someone new who did not in fact, could not be lost in a legally prescribed way, but only through the abuse of the law, without reducing the problem, analogy – today there is no milk or no oil. Don't act naive and react to the consequences. We have been replacing the causes and consequences for years, making now and threatening someone with a finger or threatening the punishments – God, it is the Minister of Agriculture or Trade for the lack of milk or oil. People, let's look ourselves in the eye and say that this is the fault of trade policy, economic policy, incentive policy, financial policy, banking system and such privatisation of short breath whose future was until tomorrow. Today you are obliged to pass the fiscal responsibility law when there is no money anywhere, and while they were in abundance, foreign exchange funds, privatisation money and donations, there was no IMF because the ministers didn't want to do so, because they wanted to bribe citizens in election processes precisely the money from privatised enterprises, the acquisitions they called the inflow of foreign direct investment. Today we're all surprised what's happening to us. We can't fix that, but we can change the state of affairs by taking a more serious approach to making a list of assets. Well, Mrs Dragutinović, that you're looking not only for a list of assets and liabilities that this country has, but for the wealth of funds available to this country, in terms of cash in blocked accounts, from America to Cyprus, to the foreign reserve held by the National Bank, to the interest that you do not pay in the budget on this surplus of funds you hold at the National Bank. This is how public finances are managed, and this is called fiscal responsibility, which involves asset management, asset management, but also economic policy management. Years ago, we ask you to enter that the objective of economic policy, budgetary policy and every employment policy is because it is the only source that can balance all the imbalances that we have in imports, in the wrong trade policies, in the failed privatisation and everything that happens, because the budget can only be charged: taxes and contributions to wages and taxes made from traffic are made and put into the budget. Everything else becomes a purpose to itself and such a formulation in the law, where in the name of transparency you allow, I simply cannot believe that you agreed to do so, for example. delete the transparency of the revenue of gambling fees, Article 14 or 19 of the basic law, and just indicate "other revenues". We're trying to fix this law where it's not clear enough, and when we have nothing to hide, why not give it precisely and that we can follow it, not just through a fiscal advisor, not through a DRI, but by our own consciousness, by comparing the figures, by comparing the revenues, what they've accomplished, where they've gone, you replace us with that concession fee income. Why did you erase your gambling income? Well, there's a casino on every corner. How many small shops in the city I live in have been closed down on the main streets and casinos have been opened. So the work is developing and growing, and we don't want to have an insight into the income from gambling fees. It doesn't make sense to me with the story of transparency and clarity of public finances. Last time we intervened, privatisation revenues, no matter how small, no matter how non-permanent, privatisation is not finished. I don't see why you're suffocating that kind of income into something called other incomes or other incomes, and you're persistently refusing to demand that they show up individually and literally, and we know that the biggest outflow in that gray zone, behind the curtain, has gone through the revenues from privatisation and the costs of privatisation, which, justifiably, some have justifiably, come into existence. I want to draw particular attention to what is called investment expenditures, capital investments, public goods, infrastructure investments, and I want to draw attention to the fact that it is not enough to say – international accounting standard. For that you have knowledge, you have experience, you have associates who can help you not to overdo the consumption of this generation, because that is the purpose of fiscal responsibility, on the back of the future generation by skillfully spilling what is consumption and naming it investment spending. I'll take an example that someone has already analyzed in the text – Analysis of budgetary policies in Serbia, it is partial, it was "Proconcept", I have no intention of advertising them, but they took them for example. The Ministry of Health and analyzed the application of the programme budget, where the impact of citizens as users of services and the impact of the commissioners was to be realised, as well as the most professional line which should not allow political abuse of funds, to which the funds, through the health ministry budget, were used, contributed to the feeling that they have a better service, because transition, change and reform are best measured through improved health and education conditions. They conclude that health care users best assessed what they could see with their naked eye – repairing facilities and getting modern equipment, and they misjudged the prevention of children's health. Someone has wisely assessed that what is visible to the naked eye, which is facilities, public procurement, investments, contractors, etc., will contribute to a good assessment. Imagine now the absurd, countless affairs of the abuse of funds in the equipment of health homes in Belgrade, where you have a huge abuse of resources, more than what was necessary, and that is what citizens consider good ones. I will remind the public and you here that I personally handed over a parliamentary question that for this purpose – buying medical equipment, for example, is a paid machine in the city of Vrbas not seven million, what it cost, but 14 million. I delivered the paperwork and the Pension and Health Insurance Fund. They wrote me a letter confirming the abuse of not 10%, not 2%, but 100% of the increased value of the equipment that was obtained in pre-election time for the electoral painting, and the difference was probably illegally cast out to conduct, or obtaining an election. That's what I'm talking about when I'm talking about a waste of funds. So, even what someone estimates to you by good use of funds, you have not as my impression, but as a fact that it is corruption and abuse. When that part is put under control, and you once just dared to say how much of it goes, like your own incomes unshown or used, but when they're planning it, they're giving themselves a purpose. Now you cut them off and I welcome that intensity of yours so you don't allow your own incomes to be established and they immediately say they'll spend it. You need to put everything under control, because they made you responsible for the Budgetary Budgetary System Act, and these are all budget money. I claim that the money in this state of Serbia has enough, but that it is misaligned, that there is insufficient control and that you do not have enough power to control those flows, because the money flows are visible, but you know when, only when the government decides, when it is personally affected and when it is personally motivated. In this law, I see no personal motive as a threat. I don't even see the feeling that the people at risk are on behalf of whom all this applies and who positively assess the area in which we have the highest number of abuses, from the purchase of vaccines, the adaptation of objects and the purchase of equipment. Where else? We had affairs with drug abuse, where someone prescribed more or less. I'm not talking about the mistakes that are most terrible now, so the country covers them, I'm talking about these mistakes that make no one get what they belong to. When I say - doesn't get what's rightfully his, first I think that each of us belongs to the right to work. I don't think we're the kind of state that should try to create dissent through social giving in generations. So, not to fill the gap between generations by not just passing on debts to the future for the waste, spending and haughtiness of these today, but we have to define such an economic policy that we are not going to hire one to make money for two pensioners, but to create maximum employment in which there will be no need for so much separation for social giving as we have today and where the question arises whether that group that supports a particular political option will be satisfied or have the impression that it is satisfied? Pension inflation just proves that they too are suffering from this scam, which is called the motive of a private government to form a coalition based on missing funds to increase pensions, that the motive is now not a redistribution of burdens, responsible borrowing, dedicated debt control, but is a motive of obedience to the IMF, which openly says: that your credit rating would be high, you must put under budget deficit control and debt rate control. No, it is not for Serbia to always be in line and in debt counters. Serbia's future is to think a little more about where those who have been fired, where we're going to hire them, not just for taking pictures on television, not for starting-up credit, which is just taken away by abuse of other people's ID cards, return immediately and say – the credit has been returned, and that there is no hairdressing salon, which there is no store for which funds from the budget are given to anyone. For this someone has to answer, because only such employment can create what this Serbia cannot exist without, which is that we have to live, survive and remain something like a saving from which only one state can develop stablely and not hang over the head of the bond of debt slavery. We've been warning for two years that it's not the salvation of the debt display methodology. We also warn that it is not statistics that will solve the problem of the standard story. What is the standard of a man who has an apartment that pays for a credit war and who, when he's late for two wars, can be taken away and taken away from him? What is the standard of a man who drives a car in a lysing car, who is already full of crying because these cars have to come back? Two years ago we keep talking – the structures of GDP growth are not meaningless, it grew on services, on traffic, or on the transport of foreign goods, on the growth of lease houses and lending. We've got a lot on our heads, and now you and I need to solve this problem with you. All right, somebody always has to, but don't look for government property, don't keep the budget non-transparent, and don't let the talk of the programming budget be just a line-up budget painted in programming and that each of the ministers is still giving you the wish lists, so that they decide how to skip the censorship from what isn't, from what's at the bottom, and at the bottom is just the floor of what's kept by the state and every citizen individually, that we make a political campaign out of someone. We're all MPs sometimes, sometimes ministers, but we're always citizens, who are very important to what state they live in. In a state without corruption, in a state where the institution of budgets, laws and courts is known, it will always be necessary and it is our responsibility to contribute to the creation of such institutions, not to create foggy formulas, unclear sources of income and to allow it to be spent on who comes to mind. You'll always have support in us when you want to put that control in place. The fact that she is not equal to that 126 number and that this article is 23. The Rules of Procedure that this ruling majority can do anything on the board and here, you also have this famous member of the 23rd that you approve that the budget can be spent and what this assembly has not verified. Please, because of your professional honor, we'll have an amendment debate, we'll assure you to throw that provision out and that it can't be called flexibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44073	There are five minutes left for the parliamentary group. Based on Article 87, I'm setting a break of one hour, which means we'll continue at 15.10 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin the afternoon session, right where we left off before noon. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44075	Mrs Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, which regulates public finances in our country and the most significant segment, which is the budget, which represents the basic document of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if in the past ten years, from the moment the first law on the budgetary system was passed to date, some law has suffered more changes and additions, which I must say is not a favourable feature of our country's economic policy and public finances, and in the previous period fiscal responsibility is not regulated. These changes and additions include two, as among other things, very important things, i.e. newspapers in public finances, strengthening fiscal responsibility, which has so far been a major flaw in the implementation of legal provisions, and establishing fiscal councils as an independent body, which assesses the government's fiscal policy and its governance in accordance with the rules. Strengthening fiscal responsibility and fiscal discipline is the most significant prerequisite for managing public finances. It is not a problem, indeed, to regulate the legal provisions, but legal provisions that must be strictly respected, from the budget calendar for adoption to the final budget account. The introduction of legal fiscal rules means that their respect by both government and state bodies determines the conduct of responsible and long-term sustainable fiscal policies. Fiscal rules are not a revolutionary newspaper in the world, but a reflection of the need for clear management and management of public finances. Since it was a final account, I'd just like to make a quick digression. In the 1980s, each final account was controlled by the SDK before adoption and fiscal discipline was at an extremely high level, but unfortunately today the institution does not exist. In order to raise fiscal responsibility, rules relating to the budget of the Republic, local self-government, out-of- budget funds, social security funds are introduced and are controlled by the state or government and by the executive authorities. General principles, through the laying of accounts, justice, accountability, stability and the public, are more declarative, while special ones regulate certain specific segments of public finances. The general and specific rules are tightly linked, because I will only point out that the level of fiscal deficit and assumed instruments for public revenue capture determines the level of public expenditures in the gross social product. The proposed deficit formula in the current year depends on the same year in the previous year and its deviation from the target, as well as, among other things, on the level of the deviation in gross social product growth relative to the medium-term growth rates. The level of deficits will adapt to the situation in the economy, allowing the fiscal deficit in years of recession to be greater than the target, i.e. in years of expansion less than the target. The very replacement of the term – The Memorandum of Budgets and Economic Fiscal Policy, with a report on the fiscal strategy, is not only termologically, but introduces new binding elements, as well as bodies for their assessment. Finally, the introduction of fiscal rules and their strict application are one of the essential preconditions for the integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU, should also be supported by those who do not respect them, of course, should be punished. Part of the global crisis and financial collapse was caused by the irresponsibility of certain countries of financial institutions. We can't let that be attributed to us. As I pointed out at the outset, another significant paper is the establishment of a fiscal council, such as monitoring, as an independent body for the conduct of the government's fiscal policy in accordance with the rules already laid down. In the very text of the law that regulates the fiscal council, I would make two remarks, but two findings, I would ask two questions. How much will this state body be independent in its work if the members are proposed by those promoters? I think at least there's politics to be avoided here, because it's still fateful decisions for the state. On the other hand, the law seems to be dealing with a lot of technical issues, not essentially, such as professional service, earnings, rules of procedure, which can simply be defined in a certain way by sublaws. I agree with the basic functions and tasks of the fiscal council, but I am asking myself the question: what are the measures and directions of this independent body's operation, if it considers that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for example, does not realise the objectives set or even behave in an irresponsible way by some selective policy? The work of counsel seems to me only to be a test, an evaluation, a preparation of opinions delivered to the National Assembly. On the other hand, a professional service with special advisors is also important, led by a top special advisor. What I mean is, of course, we support this law, as well as the provision of the introduction of international accounting standards in the preparation of the final account, because international accounting standards are used by all and it is logical that the state applies them. In the end, I would ask you to reconsider the proposed budget calendar, because so far, it seems to me, it is never respected, and that has often led to the problem of budgeting, not in calendar terms, but at all before the beginning of the year for which it is brought.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44076	Six minutes of Parliament time, five minutes and 45 seconds left. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44077	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in the light of the law, the very beginning states that fiscal rules have a long history and that they are very important. We fully agree with this assessment and add that taxes are more than significant and that they are part of an economic and political sovereignty of a country as well. In that sense, we draw the immediate conclusion that the determination of taxes, both local and republican, must not be given to a foreign institution, which, least of all, is not well-intentioned, such as the IMF, that it decides and that in the letter of intent, it literally sets up the ultimatums that the Republic Government, the resolution ministers and the NBS meet unconditionally. Why do we feel that taxes are so significant: enough to look at economic history and see how all wars were fought around taxes. You must know that the Netherlands has gained its independence by having a dispute between the Spanish administration and the local population over the tax. You know for sure how the American revolution, the German state, came into existence. The freshest example, in order not to go too far into the past, is certainly the fall of the government of Margaret Thatcher, who had been refused by some 15 million Brits to pay taxes and in 1990, the long-standing government of Margaret Thatcher fell precisely because of taxes. So, in the West, where these ultimatums come from, the IMF's conditions are just given priority to tax policy, and each state has to have that as one of the basics of its policy. It is also quite unclear that you are calling here for some statement of compliance with EU rules, when well known, it is also clear in economic, political and legal theory, that in this particular area, in the tax area, there is no EU tax harmonised policy. Each country, you have seen the latest example of Germany and France, in which apriors have rejected the introduction of a tax that would be paid at EU level, in fact leads to an independent tax policy. In this way, EU countries seem to safeguard their sovereignty, but these double principles and double standards impose on poor countries such as ours, which obviously do not have enough economics. or political forces to oppose such double standards. You know there is only an arbitration agreement in the EU that needs to eliminate double taxation. There are no taxes in the EU at the general level relating to personal income and there are also large differences in tax rates as regards VAT. Our perhaps biggest expert on the EU, for the economic community, Mr Miroslav N. Jovanovic, writes in his book "European Economic Integration" that very little has been done on the tax approach plan for the past 50-60 years. Also, in the Roman Treaty, you have in fact several members who only refer superficially to the question of tax policy. So it is fully declassified that in the interpretation of the law, it is talking about compliance with Aki communiqué, which is not in fact a tax policy, so that we view it as a kind of phrase, a distraction of the public, not personally, but a general policy in which the EU has no alternative, and in fact it does not know what is in EU practice, what is it in the economic sense of the EU and how these European rules are not respected by the strongest countries of Western Europe. Also, it explains that the problem is reportedly large public spending and tax relief. Tax reliefs are primarily given to foreign investors or foreign customers of our businesses, so it is not a problem for our citizens to suffer, who are very difficult to live in both Belgrade and the province. The explanation states that one reason for adopting this law is to congratulate the legislation on this honesty, that these are obligations to the IMF. Of course, it was necessary to specify and move forward in this honesty and to specify what these are obligations to the IMF. You said that eight months ago, if I am not mistaken, a decision to write the law was made, and a month before that a letter of intent was signed by the government of Serbia, the prime minister and the NBS, where under the heading "fiscal policy" states that it will reduce profits in the public sector, pensions will be reduced, that is, before this inflation that may reach 10% this year, that is a 10% reduction, should be sincere. Also in the letter of intent, under the title "fiscal policy", states that layoffs will take place in the state sector and at the republican level and at the local site. These are the terms of the IMF. A further explanation is given to local self - administration, and the letter of intent says that there will be a reduction in local self - administration. These are the terms of the IMF and that is the practical destruction of our economy and our society by the international financial institution. Also, the letter of intent provides for a reduction of education and health benefits. This is under the phrase of some kind of reform, but it is a reduction in such significant areas as education or health, which directly affect stability and society and economy, and something which is most likely the worst condition, which is reducing pensions from 13% of GDP to 10% and raising the age line. Now imagine in this situation, where pensioners are very hard to live on, the focus of these measures of the IMF which is focused precisely on those that are the most vulnerable and poorest part of society, instead of being exactly in the opposite direction or, for example, having a Mr. Economist Miroslav Zdravkovic who has proposed, this is not a bad proposal, to tax currency transactions with 0.5% and you will get a figure of 250m euros, which is quite appropriate and good for our budget. However, it is this economist who says that this is not possible because of the IMF and foreign banks in this country. So the real question is who runs economic policy in this country -- the IMF, foreign banks speaking through Ms Draginj Đuric, who says it's an excellent agreement with the IMF or is speaking to a government that is reportedly elected in the elections? Surely you have been following the events in England, you have seen what happened to the country that has been an EU member for several years and despite a pro-Western party coming to power, negotiations with the IMF broke down in July this year. Why did that break up happen? Not only because of the huge external debt that has passed over $100 billion a long time ago, it has also come to the conclusion that the Hungarian government has asked the IMF and the EU – and on the basis of this example, it is clear that these are two related investments that have the same task, exploiting Eastern European countries for the profit of Western European companies – to tax foreign banks working on Hungarian territory, to reduce the salary of the governor of the National Bank of Hungary. And so the government of Orbana and its finance minister came up with a precise bill that some revenue in the budget from these new taxes and 29 measures aimed at foreign banks and towards those who have a privileged position from the IMF would lead to revenues of 700m euros. This is a good example, and we recommend that you do exactly that, end the negotiations, end the arrangement with the IMF and focus on a kind of privileged elite, which is the banking system, the NBS, insurance companies and everything in the hands of the majority capital and the western part of the EU. This is a classic example that shows that there is no need to co-operate with the IMF, as they concluded an agreement with the IMF and the EU in 2008, while Hungary's GDP fell 6.3%, employment increased by 3% and industrial production dropped by 15%. As for the criteria discussed in the reasoning of the budget deficit law, on public debt, it's all nice, but I will remind you, that I will end this exhibition, in a statement by Roman Prodi, who was the President of the European Commission and who has openly said that the Stability Pact is a stupid idea. I'm literally quoting, because it's a kind of dogma inconclusive, which best shows the behaviour of France and Germany, which before the crisis in 2003, broke that 3% of the budget's dogma, and you know that Belgium and Italy had over 100 percent of the public debt compared to GDP, so that these double standards that apply to both politics and KIM are applied in the economy and they only lead to further collapse of our citizens, our country, our economies and all those who care in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44078	Ten minutes and 40 seconds of MP time have been used. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44079	It explains that this law is essentially a condition set by the IMF when negotiating a stand-by deal with the Republic of Serbia on a 2.9 billion-euro loan. More specifically, the introduction of fiscal rules is one of the provisions taken by the government through this arrangement. Fiscal rules will cover all levels of government: the Republic of Serbia's budget, local self-government, non-budging funds and other government-funded cash registers. They regulate the planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the budget, as well as fiscal principles on the basis of which a fiscal framework or responsible fiscal governance is established. The rate of budget deficit cuts from 4.8% of gross social product to 1% of gross social product has also been envisaged. It is also envisaged that public debt should not exceed 45% of the gross social product, that pensions and salaries in the public sector should be 10% and 8% by 2015, respectively, without obtaining the opinion and agreement of the Social-Economic Council; that the budget deficit of local self-government should not exceed 10% of their budget. The law also provides for a budget calendar for budget users, and the paper is the introduction of a three-member fiscal council, where the president proposes the president of the Republic of Serbia, one member suggests a finance minister and one governor of the NBS. In light of the law, it states that it is an independent body that does not depend on the government and that one reason for forming a council is its political impartiality, and that members are required a high level of expertise as well as independence from political factors. I doubt the council members can be independent of political actors if they are proposed by the president of the Republic of Serbia, namely Boris Tadic, and the finance minister, who is essentially to be given an opinion. When it comes to the budget calendar, I will remind you, Mrs Dragutinovic, that the DSS parliamentary group on 15 October 2009 asked a question concerning the non-compliance with the budget calendar and overcoming the law of the established budget deficit, that is, why does the government violate the Budget Law and exceed the budget deficit and did the finance minister break the Budgetary System Act? In November 13th of that year, we received the answer – that the circumstances in which the state is in the spirit of the law, and in achieving budgetary objectives through respect of principles, particularly efficiency and efficiency, are such that failure to comply with the draft budget law and overcoming the budget deficit cannot be characterised as a lack of respect for laws and deadlines. Signed: Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic. I think for a lot of people, this really needs to be translated and explained what it means. Why, Mrs Dragutinovic, then there is the Budget Law, which defines among other things the budget deficit, the way and purpose of spending money, as well as deadlines for its execution? Who guarantees us that the same thing is not happening this year, because it is already October 4th, and the reasons for its adoption, or disrespect, are not found in the economic crisis and emergency circumstances? What is it, Mrs Dragutinović, with unintended spending of money? As far as I know, Mrs Dragutinovic, you are a member of the Management Board of the Development Fund. Together with you at the Management Board of the Development Fund, Ministers Slobodan Milosavljevic, Milutin Mrkonjic, Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin are sitting. The chairman of the Management Board is Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic. This fund has distributed 82 loans for permanent crafts assets totalling 3.2 billion dinars without the Fund providing for a review of the credit for permanent crafts assets, and thus no way can such a contract be terminated. That's how you made it possible for budget funds to be misused without any control, more specifically people's money. Because of your relationship, you made it possible for a group of seven people, and among them a lawyer, an evaluation of the Development Fund, to abuse more than 200 million dinars. How much, Mrs Dragutinović, has money been squandered out of this fund this way? So far, according to the data we have, 12.2 billion dinars have been distributed from the Fund. The bill stipulates that the level of public debt should not exceed 45% of GDP. Mrs Dragutinovic, what is Serbia's public debt? In June 28, we received an answer to the parliamentary question that the public debt is 10.54 billion euros, or 34.4% of GDP, without covering a billion 460 million loans from the IMF in public debt. In September 14, according to the source given by you, the Ministry of Finance, the public debt amounted to 10.94 billion euros and 36.3% of GDP, respectively. This amount is not included in the IMF loan, nor are loans from local self-government. When all this is collected, the public debt to our account is over 13 billion euros, if not more. Mrs Dragutinovic, you already do not respect the law we are discussing today, because it is a public debt to all indicators over 45% of GDP. What about the funds and deficits that local self-government has? He was prescribed to be a maximum of 10% of the local self-government budget deficit. More than 30% of the municipalities, according to data provided by the Association of Free Cities and municipalities, we have that they are unable to reconcile these obligations. To conclude, we, Mrs Dragutinovic, need a law governing fiscal rules. I am afraid, given how this government behaves when it comes to implementing and respecting existing laws, as well as how members of the fiscal council are elected, that there is no possibility nor will there be any benefit to the citizens of this law, nor is there a mechanism for controlling the use of people's couples.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44080	The used time of the parliamentary group is 10 minutes and 25 seconds. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. ZORAN OSTOJIĆ: Dear Mr. Novakovic, colleagues and colleagues, the LDP has been pushing for an agreement with the IMF since its establishment, because it is the only guarantee that politicians who are in the government will not spend folk money in pre-election asphaltes. You remember when we advocated, the government was against the agreement. Now everyone sits in the government with one of the ministers and the Deputy Prime Minister who was then against an agreement with the IMF. What my esteemed predecessor said is the essence of why we cannot vote for this law, although we are in favour of an agreement with the IMF, although it is the only institution that can force the government into order, that it does not spend, not archeological money for survival in power in pre-election asphaltation. The law itself hangs without other complete measures to reduce Serbia's public spending and simply this law and the way it is passed without this complete reform and tax system, the pension system, which LDP stands for, will remain a dead letter on paper. Another example, what we call a fine European business, the obligation is, here's what we're going to bring. It's not just this example, it's almost every day, and basically nothing changes. We really think that there is a need to reduce public spending in this country, that the budget deficit should be reduced to 1% or not. Simply, when you agree your thoughts in government, your policy will also have a chance at success. In order for you to do it or if you did, you would go out with a complete package of economic measures. On the one hand, you have been pushing for the past months to reduce the budget deficit for this year, and on the other hand, your colleague, one of the predecessors at the post of Finance Minister, now Deputy Prime Minister, is pushing for an increase in spending. Simply, in such a government, no consistent economic policy can be run with such different attitudes. If in export-oriented countries such as Germany, when exports fall due to stagnation in the European economy and it makes sense to preserve that production for exports, it increases public consumption. In a country that does not have such an export economy, an increase in public consumption and internal consumption is absolutely on the long-term cut of the branch on which we are sitting. That can only lead to an even bigger deficit. We regret, therefore, that the IMF is formally meeting its commitments, but that there will be no significant improvement in reducing public spending. We'll see about that very soon when we get the draft budget next year, or I hope we get it real quick, not like last year, to wait for the new year with the budget. In any case, until the government realizes that the paliative measures, partial measures cannot change the economic situation in Serbia and lead to what we all call a new economy, i.e. an export-oriented economy and such laws will only satisfy the form, but not the essence. The time foreseen for the debate of the LDP parliamentary group has been used. The word has a folk emissary, Branka Ljiljak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44082	Dear Presidency, Ms Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. In most cases, changes and additions relate to fiscal responsibility. The law on the budgetary system is a system law which is used to create its finances by all beneficiaries who are on the budget, at any level of government, whether they are direct or indirect, just by being included in the consolidated account of the vault, or general state level. Whether there should have been a special law on fiscal responsibility or changes and additions, in my opinion, changes and additions are good, because a large number of users now have in one place everything they need to do to ensure that this budget is well planned, well designed and that there are not many changes. It follows that, due to the large number of users in order to manage in the most comprehensive way, rules should be established and these rules and procedures should be followed in every way. The public spending system, from planning, budget implementation, public spending control, has been regulated by law. It was necessary to strengthen fiscal responsibility and to regulate it by legal regulations. It's a prerequisite for improving and managing public finances. As an illustration, we can also benefit from a crisis that has recently hit and shaken us, both us and developed countries of the world. During the periods of economic growth, we grew public consumption and reduced fiscal capacity at certain tax rates and the introduction of certain tax reliefs. In the period of crisis, the current fiscal policy has not had the opportunity to strike a balance with appropriate measures, and that is why the law on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act that regulates the principles of fiscal policy has now come out. I think it is also necessary to determine the tax law that will bring this area to the right and help with the realisation of these public finances. These amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act set out the fiscal principles, rules and procedures set out in the fiscal framework. The government, i.e. the executive body of local authorities, is responsible for the implementation of this fiscal policy. The fiscal principles under this law are both general and individual and relate to justice, responsibility. It touches the sustainability of the debt of the state, the orderly service of debt and the management of public property. These fiscal rules, i.e. rules replacing these principles, are introduced to reduce the imbalances that may occur during the fiscal year and manage them on the medium term. Fiscal rules are introduced to the general level of the state, covering all state-funded users and representing setting limits on fiscal policy. I think it's a good thing that any rules are introduced to the general level of the state, because automatically all the beneficiaries of the budget go into this framework and should be ruled over. The general rules of fiscal policy are tasked with telling us to move deficits to GDP on the medium term, as well as the maximum contribution of debt to GDP. In addition, a formula has been established which, when we determine the maximum contribution of debt to GDP, can be implemented at the level of a fiscal deficit that is in line with that debt, which basically means that each of the users and anyone at all who is interested can know at which point both the fiscal deficit is moving and how the components affecting it are moving. The fiscal deficit from year to year would go around the target average amount, so fiscal policy acts anticyclically on business activity and employment. Specific fiscal rules should help reduce the fiscal deficit compared to GDP by mostly reducing current expenditures. The objective of fiscal rules is also to change the structure of public spending. Public investment works so that public investment can go beyond the allowed increase in deficits. This is only allowed because investments that need to be determined increase the value of the state's assets and enable current and future generations to live better and to serve debt more easily in later periods. For local authorities, the fiscal deficit in a given year cannot exceed 10% of its revenues in the year. It can be extremely larger than mentioned if it is a realisation of public investment, which means that the state and government have decided to put investment first so that we can expect good economic growth. The paper of the law is fiscal advice. It's predicted as an independent organ. Its function is to carry out an independent analysis of fiscal policy, to check macroeconomic fiscal assumptions, to participate in the development of a report on the government's fiscal strategy and to give an independent credit assessment of the economic policy measure, and in particular the good thing is that it prepares and delivers to the National Assembly an analysis of the report on the fiscal strategy, the budget law, the rebalancing, the final account. There are three members, as well as professional services and a good part of the experts who will help them realize all these functions that they have been given as a legal obligation. It is mentioned, and I would also like to point out that the National Assembly is choosing members on a proposal from the president of the state, governor of the National Bank and Minister of Finance. I would add that, as in previous cases, the governor and election of the Governor-in-Office of the Board of Governors has been taken into account, so I have no doubt that the members of the Council will be elected by us, and on a proposal from experts who know how to do the job and will help both the Government and the National Assembly to evaluate the budget, the rebalancing and the final account in the best possible way, in order to have a more successful and better year next year. In the Budgetary System Act, public funds users establish financial management, control, as well as internal audit. The paper in this law is the coordination carried out by the central coordination unit. In particular, it underlines the responsibility of public-funding managers, which leaves managers with the ability to show themselves as managers with financial resources working from the budget in the most comprehensive market way. All amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act shall contribute to the planning, preparation and implementation of the budget. This introduces the principles and rules to be used to strengthen fiscal responsibility to avoid risks that may occur during the fiscal year. The responsibility of the Government and the executive bodies of local self-government, as well as co-operation and agreement with the relevant institutions on budget preparation, the overcoming of the problem, if any, gives one picture that all those factors relying on the budget will, with professional and good help, avoid the risks that await them in the fiscal, or budget year. By applying these amendments and by supplementing the Budgetary System Act, we will be given the opportunity to establish stable public finances, and in the voting day I will support this law, as well as the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44083	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44084	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given the previous experience with this government and some similar governments in which some participate today, we can pass the law whatever we want, the law can be the best in the world, but the problem is that whoever writes laws, who proposes to the National Assembly, and who needs to implement them doesn't do it right or doesn't do it at all. More of my colleagues said that in a few discussions. They repeat only because of one fact that we have DRI, that it has carried out some control of the work of our ministries and that the only regret was, behold, that certain ministers, along with the representation accounts, did not file a report with whom they spent the money. That's why they paid fines. Some will, I hear, complain, no one is immune from the law and all are responsible for what they do. Is that right? I can't agree, because first of all, when we look at the 2010 budget and the 2009 Budget Act, we see that our deficit in 2010 is higher than in 2009. You're saying we're leaving the recession in 2010. So what's the problem, and what's the problem with this larger deficit and the bigger budget? Every time the government is determined, or elected by the Serbian Parliament, we also have a government law before the government's election. I remember some times when, for example, there was the Ministry of Finance and the jurisdiction of the finance minister, so he, apart from the tax collector, Mrs. Minister, and now you've burned only on the tax collector and nothing else, determined where the money would be spent and by what projects, what employment would be, what requalification, etc. That was while Finance Minister was Mladjan Dinkic. Now it's a little different law. I said that you became just one ordinary tax collector, and all that and all the financial flows belonging to the Ministry of Finance from 2004 to 2007 are again in only two ministries -- the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the NIP. We have this famous DRI whose work, not us MPs, not MPs of the opposition, but the ruling majority have been obstructed for years. How can the finance minister explain to me that our NIP ministry spends twice as much money on the same product unit as some small municipality in eastern Serbia, with the same contractor? I'm surprised DRI didn't find it in her work, say, when it comes to the NIP Ministry? Like I said, all these laws we can pass. It's about those who do it. Despite all your desire to convince us that this law will regulate something, you must first convince us that you will regulate final relations in the government and that the government will not succumb to the pressure of any party and group of individuals who seem to be controlling everything other than roads, building roads. Remember that famous dispute between Verica Kalanovic and Milutin Mrkonjic about who should conduct public procurement when it comes to funding from the National Plan, who should run the job of employment and employment programmes, whether the Ministry of Economy or Ministry of Labour, martial arts and social affairs etc. When you finally exempt from one man and one party the financial flows of money, then we can talk about this law, amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, something is worth it. Until then, all we can do is make laws, we can talk about how they will regulate something, and on that people's being -- the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44085	The word is from MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44086	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System and for the sake of clarity, so for our citizens, I will repeat that this law regulates the planning, preparation and implementation of the budget. The aim of the adoption of this law is to strengthen fiscal responsibility and respect for fiscal principles, for the conduct of responsible long-term sustainable fiscal policy. In these formulations, it is clear what this law is processing, and I would say that this formal party that is important to this law will certainly be better arranged than now. We, SPS-JS MPs, want to give a certain opinion which is in the sense of criticism of what the law could more specifically formulate and what it is is a practice when it comes to budgeting. We're in the middle of a time when we're supposed to bring the budget for next year and I think this law leaves certain gray spots or gray areas in the part of how the budget is created. I especially mean in those stages of planning and preparation, then able to produce from this very general appropriations in the budget, with large amounts of dozens of billions, which allow a wide range of use of funds depending on the subjective criteria of the executive body or individuals, which is certainly not good. Because allowing a subjective approach to resource orientation also degrades the idea of keeping a clearly designed and consistent policy of balanced development, which is also needed here in the Republic of Serbia. We have passed a law that deals with the issue of even development and we have categorized four types of units of local self-government, i.e. municipalities in what is their economic power, and in order to create assumptions for the more balanced development and promotion of those weaker municipalities. Government measures to overcome economic and financial policy we had a situation to reduce transfers to local self-governments, which are very poor with their budgets, and this reduction went beyond the spirit of this previous law that spoke of the incentive criteria. In the end, we found that these municipalities needed help and a decision was made to return part of the transfer, but this is not yet happening and this refund is not yet being made. So, the essence of my exposure is precisely, because the accent is that, in the allocation of budgets, we need to take more seriously the essence and need of greater incentives from local self-governments that are underdeveloped, especially in southern Serbia, to the east of Serbia, but there are them both in central and western Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44087	Your time is up. The word has Mr. Zoran Krasic, you have 56 minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44088	Mr. Novakovic, on this bill, I have to start from the beginning so most people might understand it better. As far as citizens are concerned, they're all clear. Let's start with the first thing. We learned at school that two plus two is four, but the teachers didn't tell us that two plus two is the result of the deal, and that's the deal that's true and respected. Now we have another topic, is it possible in other areas to make arrangements, to respect these agreements, so when it's respected, then it's believed in something and there's a big problem. Just to remind you, the reform of the budget system has started since 2001 in that building there, Božidar Djelic began, there were talks about the first best pro-European law. Believed by Djelic, believed by most, believed by citizens. The government changed, another, also DOS, passed a new law, that is, after a few changes that some people believed in, so the citizens believed, so everyone believed it was very pro-European, and in 2009, a new law was passed, pro-Europeanly, believed, everyone believed. Now it comes with one text of amendments and additions to the law, swears it can't be more European than this, insert some terms as if slow us down, it means a lot, such as some terms were capacity, NGOs, safe houses, anything, but it sounds a lot of European, and now you'll believe all citizens to believe, and you believed when the Law on Public Debt was passed, you believed, believed, believed and believed. What happened? You always come here with a demand to believe in something new. Some of them are going to die, believing, I mean, first of all, I don't mean those who suggest and ask us to believe. What do we need to believe? We should believe that when a three-member commission is created as a kind of para-state body, that it will be much better and better quality than the National Assembly, than auditors, from the Ministry of Finance, from the Government, from the Tax Administration, from the IMF, from the World Bank, from the OTP Bank, Hypo-Alpe-Adria, Čupiceva, Sanader, I apologize, but it is important that you believe. Since 126 trusts you, 126 is an opportunity for you to create a commitment for all of us, and you don't really believe. He loves you, he doesn't like you. To support belief, the promoter remembered a famous phrase: "The experience of a large number of countries has shown that the law is the best framework that will oblige economic policymakers to lead a responsible, long-term sustainable fiscal policy with respect to fiscal rules." The promoter invented the law as a means, imagine. There's nothing without the law, and do laws apply? Milos Radulovic read to you, responsible for the application of the law, gives an explanation that he is not responsible for the application of the law. Is that possible? It's possible. Why? It's 126. While there was a Federal Assembly, in the Council of Citizens there was a famous Radoman Bozovic, he said "when I see 70 hands in the air I will declare the globe a cube". What makes you different from Radomana Bozovic? Probably in the shoe count, there's got to be some other difference. It doesn't exist, you're the same, you're exactly the same. It's just that you burned down the assembly. The only problem is that you burned down the congregation and made an even bigger expense. It's exactly the same. Imagine what is further said: "A significant increase in fiscal deficits and public debt during the last crisis has further highlighted the need to lead economic policy both by monetary and fiscal rules". Isn't that the rule of when he's remembered forever and since he's a country? What now, the global economic crisis is your fault? Before the start of the global economic crisis, you had the best finance minister in the world. I was trying to get him to take him to America to take care of their finances. He made a budget surplus. Like once a surplus, another year's deficit? What are you playing with? I don't have a problem with your beliefs, I don't have a problem with mine, I don't believe you. But when you say - the law, someone is afraid because the words of the law are both rights and obligations and responsibilities. Next, this has to be done, he says, they believe it has to be done. In the Republika Srpska EU, immersed entirely. All those who spoke Republika Srpska, we protect her, won the election. No one should have mentioned the EU, because it would have got zero. The one who mentioned it got zero. You're looking for this law because you need to meet the requirement, because there are certain conditions for entering the monetary union. Where did you get the idea of us entering the monetary union? The European Union does not want to have the euro. Have you seen how much the state doesn't want the euro as its means of payment? Go to Scotland, go to Great Britain, they don't want to hear about the euro, they don't know what the euro is. Who authorized you to announce the Eurozone to us? That's funny. When did you vote for a monetary union, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? You hear from the EU that some countries should leave the eurozone to preserve their economy, and their economy and their social welfare. They're forcing us to fail and they're asking us to believe. The one who trusts them has died. I don't trust them and I have a reason. He says, "The government has run fiscal policy according to the rules." How did you keep it in line with the rules? All the municipalities of the overindebted. All over-indebted. State overindebted. You're talking about some master criteria up to 5% of the deficit funding. How many countries in the EU have broken through this? EU member states, according to EU rules and standards, behave according to the system: what they apply, what they do not apply. The French have concluded that they cannot tolerate some EU citizens from other countries, so they have deported, in Italy they are planning a deportation law. Everyone defends their economy and their economic space in the way they think best they can protect their interests. This does not create any earthquakes in the EU, because those who are EU members do not believe in the EU as ours believe or theirs do, since mine are not and are asking citizens to believe. Furthermore, it is said that some provisions suggest that the government, i.e. the local government's executive body, is responsible for the implementation of fiscal policy. And so far, the government has always been responsible, except no one from the government has gone to jail. Then the question arises – what is the government's responsibility, to whom does the Government answer? In front of the National Assembly. There are 126 of you here. You are able to vote all the best and that Mirko Cvetkovic is 17 years old. And you can vote that. Where's that responsibility? The law is believed to prescribe responsibility, to be held accountable to the National Assembly, but the principle that two and two are four is not valid in the National Assembly. There's no empirium, there's only partial interest. Citizens of Serbia, organised crime holds all levers of power. Since 2001 organised crime has won its own government and has to finance both parties in the government and individual opposition parties, because they don't care who's in power, and you're asked to believe. Believe what? Pro-European guys changing laws every six months? Who is applying these laws, what is the substrate of the people who apply these laws? NGOs, independent regulatory bodies, only damage to the state. What kind of government are you when you propose to be controlled by someone on the street? Fiscal Council – what kind of institution is it? What is that, a tobacco agency? What are you thinking? Why didn't you introduce the fiscal council ten years ago? Wasn't a European standard? When did this change the European standard? We're supposed to believe this? Belief, crazy joy. We all do. What do we believe crows will take their eyes out? When did this happen? I hope I get a chance to make some amendments to remind you that you don't need to believe. One year's deficit, another year's surplus. Order whatever you want. Did you live better with the deficit or the surplus? Who lived better? You sold out everything. There's a nice saying that says, "Sell, spend, be in charge." Believe that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic will get you out of the crisis. Who else believes that? Bilbordi, TV videos, who else believes? In order for someone to believe in something, he must have at least an elemental cover, he must have some reference, there must be something. What's in it for you? The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. What did DRI do? What are the consequences? It won't be anything. Why? Because it doesn't suit anyone. One who is not in charge of Serbia, and neither is Mirko Cvetkovic, nor Boris Tadic, especially the National Assembly, because anyone can do whatever they want with the National Assembly, and some can even burn it. I hope tomorrow you will come with matches to burn this building, you who burned it in 2000, because you too should be dissatisfied, you did not burn this congregation in the belief that only some will live well. But you won't. You're getting high on this people's souls.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44089	The word is from Ambassador Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44090	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, today's amendment to the Budgetary System Act is being adopted under specific conditions. So we wouldn't have this item on the agenda today, and we wouldn't be discussing it if it wasn't for the IMF's conditions if it had to be done as quickly as possible to amend the Budgetary System Act, or so on. the fiscal liability law, because it is a condition, i.e. a prerequisite for withdrawing a new tranche of credit by the IMF. This is how it is in the country of Serbia, for everything that is needed to be done in this country, in order to have a more orderly and normal state, must come as an ultimatum from somewhere outside. The question is why is that and why we always have to work on some ultimatums, but it's probably a topic for another debate. Last year, we adopted the Budgetary System Act, mid-year, and then you told us in this National Assembly that it would regulate relations in the country and that, in accordance with this law, bad practice would break the deadlines for the future when it comes to the adoption of various programming documents concerning the RS budget and the budgets of local self-government and that it would start from the adoption of that law, everything would continue to flow as it was written. Only a few months after that was your claim and promises of verification, and it ended in an infamous manner, with the 2010 Budget Act adopted on 1 December 2010 by the Government, which was due on 1 November. So, just one month late, it's probably some improvement compared to the previous years. The assembly adopted December 21st, although it was due to be adopted on December 15th under the provisions of the law. The 2010 budget rebalancing was adopted on 18 December, although the entire October, November and the vast majority of December were paid out of the budget, practically in an illegal manner, without the Assembly's approval. On 18 December 2009, only formally confirmed what you had already spent in advance, spending money on various budget users. I don't know what the guarantee is that when this law changes, it's gonna be different. Your word of honor and your promise to introduce responsibility has already been passed several times and it has fallen into the water, so we suspect that this time the provisions of this law will be applied as they are written. The basic question related to the Law on the Budgetary System is – how many countries and to what level can be owed, to what level of social gross product? In your opening statement, we heard that the country is in charge of about 36% or 37% of the social gross product and that there is still room for the country to be in debt. But the fundamental question is whether it is revenue in our budget, is our industrial production, does our reality of social gross product allow the state to continue to be in debt? I am afraid, and that is what economic experts are constantly warning, the country can come to a dangerous zone that carries the risk of excessive debt and practically total government collapse when it comes to its functioning. What are the revenues in the RS budget and how much is external and public debt, these are basic issues that can determine what our fiscal and monetary policy will be and what movements will be in the budget, or how much spending will be in that budget. According to data from your ministry, in the first eight months of this year, the RS budget amounted to 414 billion dinars and spent 487 billion dinars. Up to the projected 660 billion dinars, as projected in the RS budget for 2010, we are missing only about 250 billion. I'm afraid this number is so big that it won't be able to be realized in a dream either, which is going to say that we're going to have far less revenue in the budget than we planned, and what I think the worst part of the whole story is that these budget receipts are going to be nominally less than they were three or four years ago. I'm not really talking. In doing so, expenditure in the budget is generally bigger and bigger each year, public spending is growing and higher, and we replace this public spending by taking new loans. And so round. The only question is, how long can it work like that? We are afraid that at some point, there will be huge wars for both the mains and the interest, and that Serbia will have to cut to the point where it will not go into a complete financial collapse, to resolve some things within itself, or to reduce its public consumption, which you are for years only verbally reducing, and in fact, this consumption is growing every year. The biggest newspaper in this amendment of the law is the introduction of a fiscal council, which should be an independent body that will control the ministry's work and income and expenditure in the budget, i.e. public borrowing. This independent body will propose, or its members will be proposed by the President of the State, you as Minister and Governor of the National Bank. It is indeed in a picturesque way a very independent body, where all three members of that independent body will propose actually a politburo of the Central Committee of the DS. I'll do one more sentence, if that's all right. So I really don't know how else to call a desire for uncontrollable authority, avoiding any possible control and budgets and spending money in this country, except for the desire to cover up some things and maybe in one illegal way manage the funds that this state controls, and it's all at the expense of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44091	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44092	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr. Chairman, I must point out to you the violation of Article 27, which I believe was accidentally done. We just, just some of us, possibly 17, got an opinion from the DRI Council. That opinion, which requires the Committee to submit amendments, has not been delivered to all MPs. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly does it appear that the opinion delivered by the DRI is delivered only to the members of the Committee. The only thing the Committee does about the DRI is consider the report. The DRI was elected by all MPs of this Assembly and I believe that the chairman and secretary of the Assembly were obliged not only to deliver to the Finance Committee but to all MPs in this assembly. I also think that the chairman of the Finance Committee or his deputy, who received this document, was obliged to take a little account, not to violate the Rules of Procedure, to introduce you to this and to deliver to every MP. I find this very important. I don't know if you, Minister, are familiar with these amendments. The DRI argues that certain solutions in this law are contrary to the DRI Act and that it is impossible to implement them. In order for us to be able to discuss this adequately, I think all MPs should have gotten this material. Mr. Chairman, I'm just asking you to take care of it and let all MPs get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44093	Mr. Marash, there is no violation of article 27. Therefore, MPs who were members of the Finance Committee received a short way in an O.R. in which the meeting was considered to be immediate, and all MPs, of course, would receive the material on a regular basis, in a post office through parliamentary groups. Does this please you? No, I don't. ) In the day of voting, the Assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure that I have done. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic, advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44094	Mr. Vice President, form or form in which an MP may appear is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. As members of the Committee, we have just received the opinion of the State Audit on the law we are discussing, since the Rules of Procedure opens up the possibility of amendments that we have just received, which the State Audit considers very important and points to a number of shortcomings in the law under discussion. On the basis of Article 71. The Rules of Procedure, which provides for how committee meetings are scheduled, and gives the possibility of a third of the Members of Parliament, the President of the Committee or the President of the National Assembly, so that I invite the President of the Committee, Mr Krasic, to schedule a session of the Committee because it is an extremely important matter, so that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we can, if the Committee decides that it is necessary, put these amendments in the procedure. This was the only form to point out the possibility that it was according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44095	With an explanation, as I was just now, with my complete certainty, Mr. Obradovic, that you are certain that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor was I able to make them, and your public invitation to the president or vice president of the Finance Committee I accept in some parliamentary spirit, but I think it is completely out of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the work of the National Assembly at the session. Are you satisfied with this explanation? (Radojko Obradovic, from the post: I asked the president of the Committee to schedule a session. I'm interpreting that you're not satisfied. In the voting day, the assembly will declare whether or not I hurt the Rules of Procedure today or not. The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic. The time at your disposal is 38 and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I will say within the time I have, not as time to advertise the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, you should have appreciated what my colleagues from the Finance Committee have indicated. You shouldn't have disobeyed their warning. I hope during this debate we agree on one thing. If in the modern world of public finances one of the basic budgetary principles, the principle of budgetary balance, many people would suffer much less. Given that in practice it has long since given up this once-gold rule of public finances, it has overcome its view of the budget deficit as an instrument for reviving the economy during the economic crisis. In practice, it has also been shown, unfortunately, that the reasons for the large disproportionateness between budget revenues and expenditure are numerous and that this instrument is not used only during the economic crisis. In the background of budgetary imbalances, where higher income expenditures are dominated, political reasons are above all, corruption and other actions stand. It is good to pay a little more attention to the general fiscal rules that will establish this law. As someone who greatly appreciates what the numbers say, now I'm going to devote a little more space to that number speech. When we go back just a little bit and make comparisons with the result of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the past five years, we see the following. In 2006, he was one of the few in which the budget had surpluses. First, 39.5 billion surplus dinars were planned. However, the year ended with a smaller surplus than planned with 15.4 and 39.05 respectively compared to the plan. In 2007, the deficit was 13.7 billion. Otherwise, the Regulation on the interim financing of the Republic of Serbia was in force first this year, while the law was passed in June and began with its application on 1 July 2007, and given the date of adoption, amendment and addition there was no. In 2008, the planned deficit amount was 14.8 billion. However, the law has suffered changes and additions that the original deficit from the planned 14.8 billion has increased to 45.7 billion. Expressed in percentages – 308.75% more deficits than originally planned, and in dinars – 30.9 billion dinars more. We made it to a very interesting year in 2009. The 2009 Act on the Republic of Serbia's budget, which planned the deficit, amounted to 49.9 billion. However, this law has suffered changes and additions on two occasions. When the first amending and supplementing law for 2009 was passed, the planned deficit increased to 70.5 billion, amounting to 20.6 billion more than originally planned or 141.28%. This defined amount of deficits was not enough, so another change and addition followed, with a budget deficit for 2009 of 104.8 billion dinars or 54.9 billion more than originally planned, as expressed in percentages is 210.17%. During 2009, there was a decrease in income and budgeting on two occasions. The first rebalancing resulted in a reduction in income, income and expenditure, with an increase in deficits. After realizing that the amended amount of revenue could not be realised, another rebalancing occurred, when lower income and income were defined, but expenditure and expenditure remained at the same level, leading to a higher amount of deficit. Serbia's 2010 budget law envisions a 107 billion deficit in the budget. When we sum everything up, we see that the numbers show up next. From the originally planned 39.5 billion surpluses in 2006, although unfulfilled, the amount reached was 15.4 billion to 104.7 billion deficits that ended in 2009 and 107 planned in 2010, but this deficit could be corrected and higher. We've already had a chance to hear that there's going to be a near budget rebalance for this year and that the rebalance is already being planned this month. What the final result will be, we'll see soon enough. When we have a proposal for rebalancing, we'll be able to talk about it. What's characteristic of the previous five years is that while there was revenue from privatisation, the budget deficit wasn't so high, it was even, as I mentioned, surpluses. However, since the privatisation process has been carried out in the most damaging way possible in the Serbian economy, so many good Serbian firms have been sold in depravity, and most of them ended up with locks on the gates, there is nothing left to sell, so the lack of these revenues and how the budget deficit feels is as it is. It's very interesting what's written in the explanation of the bill we're talking about. It is, in fact, an obvious recognition, which the representatives of the SRS kept talking about and the representatives of the authorities denied. It is written here - the inadequacy of the size and structure of public spending in the Republic of Serbia has been particularly reflected in the crisis period. Whenever we said that the proposal for a budget with which you went out to the MPs and the public is a consumer, you insisted the opposite - that it is developmental, and now this recognition means that the truth can't really hide anymore. Since my arguments today are figures, I'm going to make a comparison of the budget in the last five years. The structure of expenditure and expenditure is dominated by current expenditures ranging from 88.13 to 94.92%. Capital expenditures are represented from 3.86 to 11.87. It is characteristic that capital expenditure is constantly reduced from year to year, starting in 2007 when 11.87% were allocated for capital expenditure. In 2008, 10.7 was planned, but budget rebalancing was reduced to 8.47%. In 2009, there was a marked decrease compared to the previous year of 5.35% of total expenditure and expenditure. It was not possible to realise this amount either, so the rebalance was reduced to 3.86%, while increasing the share of current expenditures in total expenditures and expenditures from 91.77 to 93.76%. For the current year 2010, there is a planned participation of capital expenditure of 4.34% of total expenditure and expenditure, as will be seen soon. The structure of current expenditure over the past five years also speaks a lot about what the budget of the Republic of Serbia is. Costs for employees range from 22.47% to 30.04%. Transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations ranging from 28% to 38.49%. For example, in 2009, these two items amounted to 65.26% of the total amount of current expenditure. Transfers to other levels of government account for 8.14 to 11.4% and have a constant year-on-year decline. Social security from the budget ranges from 10.34 to 12.07, while subsidies account for 5.04 to 7.88% of current costs and expenditures based on interest payments from 2.67 to 5.32. For the sake of time, I will briefly further comment on the second area covered by the general fiscal rules, the maximum debt ratio towards GDP. The data suggests that Serbia's total public debt at the end of June was 10.8 billion euros or 354% of GDP. As it remains below the lower level of debt defined by the IMF and the World Bank as 48% of GDP, NBS analysts argue that Serbia is still at risk of becoming a serious macroeconomic problem. However, some university professors believe that politicians and the NBS view only the foreign public debt ratio towards GDP. Their claims are that this size is unusable, because it came up with a bill that they disagree with, because GDP is expressed in current prices, so foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange debt is divided by the amount of GDP in the overrated domestic currency. According to the GDP account in 2000, it is $8.07 billion, and for this year it is estimated at $38 billion, or 31 billion. According to them, real GDP growth from 2000 to 2009 was about 65%. When the amount of total external debt, public debt and public external debt is divided by a so-bloated figure of GDP, the relationship seems acceptable. However, the correct calculation of the total external debt far exceeds 78.1% of GDP, according to the NBS report in June, which means that Serbia is already a highly in charge of the country. It is only important to point out that in the assembly procedure, a 250m-euro debt law is a bill on borrowing from commercial banks to finance deficits and refinance debt. The rules are passed, harmonisation is planned by 2015, but at this point the government is not giving up new duties, and the IMF approves them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44097	The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44098	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, after reading the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, I have concluded that the Proposer tried to further adjust the apparatus instead of simplifying the power to contribute, thanks to the lack of definition of relations, further chaos, and, in conclusion, the unnecessary increase in costs has lost responsibility. If this was the goal, then you've done it completely. Otherwise, the alleged objective of the legislative solution, which we are discussing today, was to strengthen budgetary discipline. If this is in mind, then one logical question is raised – how could the Ministry of Finance so far not, whether or not to implement financial policy and strategy, etc? In general, Serbia is going the wrong way, increasing public debt and financing current consumption, which basically means that it can no longer be in charge of modernisation or of someone better tomorrow. So, with the lack of restrictions on the waste of the state, the long-declared tax reform through which income could increase, we are faced with serious problems. Even some official analyses by the finance ministry show that the sustainable level of public debt for the Serbian economy is 45% of GDP, and this practically means that the space for some determined reforms is less and less. You will say that this level of debt is not great in relation to countries in the region, but what we could personally see for ourselves is an example from the neighborhood, which has built excellent roads from borrowing, which is investment in the future, and there is no such practice in Serbia. The key question is – will the public social sector be reformed in order to reduce the cost of the state? When I mentioned tax reform earlier, it should go globally through tax cuts, but it is a big question – what steps will the government decide? The statistics, unfortunately, as the best witness to how the executive government works, show that of those 1.5% deficits in 2006, over 1.9% next year, so in 2008, the deficit in the state register was 2.5%, last year 4.1%), therefore it is not very difficult to figure out where we are going and where we will end up if we do not achieve some sustainable fiscal position for the next three or four years. You government gentlemen obviously have a big problem with which you close your eyes, which is the fact that about 30% of the domestic economy in the gray zone, in order to curb the grey economy certainly brings an increase in public income, and this kind of economy that as many as legal businesses obviously suffers the consequences of unfair competition prices. The budget, we've made sure of that, is becoming more and more empty. For Serbia, it is a characteristic that in no less bad years, such as those three or four years and with a growth greater than 5% a year, it has failed to provide more revenue than expenditure in the budget. Perhaps by some rule, it was necessary to have a surplus, so that in years like this and the next, it could possibly go to the deficit without any major problems. However, we are witnessing frequent election processes. It was spent on pensions exclusively, salary increases, and, as we've heard before, mostly spent everything you've received from privatisation over the past ten years. It is precisely these revenues that may have contributed to this and that, in addition to such a wasteful policy that is characteristic of Serbia, we still do not belong, by some parameters, to a group of countries with an extremely high public debt. The problem is there's no more privatisation, no more money, and every deficit is covered by debt. What is also well known is that there are many shortcomings in the public finances system in Serbia, and perhaps the most important thing is that Serbia does not have the so-called today. the project budget, the fact that many state authorities treat their current consumption costs as some kind of investment, which certainly damages the accuracy of the fiscal framework, as well as the fact that inconsistencies by applying the law, in practice, prevent independent control of budgetary policy. You, representatives of the government, who are eager to become a member of the EU, and precisely in the domain of public finances, extremely important items, particularly in the field of overallity control, the needs and use of budget funds, are constantly prolonging this in a year or a decade later. I'd like to take a special look at one of the so-called. The greatest achievements of such a law, which is the establishment of a financial council, which would, as the case may be, play an advisory role in the formation of tax policy and in the preparation of the budget. I'm really very interested, Madam Minister, and I'd like you to help me explain some of the dilemmas I have, which is, how much is it really going to cost to form one of these tips? How, for example, is just five years of working experience enough to take part in such an important advice? What kind of personnel, or guarantee that there will be no party elections, and we know who suggests people on the council? I would especially like to hear an explanation of the fact that foreign citizens can be engaged in the work of the council. If it is known that, for example, a financial council manager can be a person with ten years of work experience, what does that mean? Someone who finishes economic college in this country at 22-23 can be elected in his 32 years of life, although there is very little practical experience and knowledge about the nature of things, and according to what you've shown us here, it might even be found on a leadership council like this. What is probably the biggest failure is that there is no defined material and criminal responsibility for members of the council. The explanation that the government is taking responsibility, I'll probably agree with most citizens, is quite thin. Perhaps one of the more logical questions is this – why should the advice not bear the responsibility of the DRI? On what basis is it decided that the council approves the deficit of local self-government? In the opinion of us in the SRS, this is about one of the most common political discrimination, because the advice in the letter of this law can grant one municipality 2%, another 3%, third 5%, and for those who could count on a significantly higher percentage, beyond that, on the basis of some investments, although it is not defined at all what kind of investments it is. Perhaps those investments include patching up local roads ahead of the elections. I don't know, I'm saying it's undefined. Where in this whole story, Mrs Dragutinovic, is co-ordination with the Ministry of Capital Investment? I didn't really notice that here. I've got a few more grudges. In addition to the fact that laws are not implemented in practice, the fact that even now, just as in previous laws, internal control has been defined. I know for certain that in the municipality of Mladenovac, from which I come, no internal or external audit of budget spending has been recorded in the previous five years. Then what's all this for? Why is that? Perhaps because there is no system to be established, when, how, with which personnel, Madam Minister? A few more notes – who and by what criteria will form a list of the general level of state? What are these entities, other than budget users, to which are the provisions of the law applied? There was certainly an extraordinary room left for manipulation. Finally, when all of this is seen, it would obviously be most meaningful if not only in the law, but also in the Constitution lay down certain guarantees that would ensure and limit budget deficits and borrowing the state beyond a certain measure. I think that for the very beginning, you should right within the government of Mirko Cvetkovic to be clear, whether you want some rules that we set to implement and respect, or because of the diversity of opinions and this kind of bill will experience what the vast majority of predecessors will experience. Nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44099	The used time of the parliamentary group is nine minutes and 40 seconds. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44100	Would you please just tell me how much time I have left? Is that enough? I'm old, after all. Thank you, Chairman. (President: you have 15 minutes left. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, one of the lawmakers said is a very important law that will bring about a certain shift in the area of finance. The position of the SRS, I must take immediate action, is one of the laws in a series of legal projects that only nominally points to certain problems, but does not solve them. Why isn't he solving them? Because according to its concept, the financial responsibility that apriori has been entered into by the provisions of this law does not belong to the Law on the Budgetary System. Financial responsibility is far wider and covers a far larger set of financial systems than the budget system. This matter had to be covered as it was resolved in other legislation. We have a parallel right very well. These are specific laws in the EU. Germany even went to changes to its constitution to install certain system solutions restricting both the central state and local self-government and certain other types of public spending. You've broken all that into this law, and we'll get what we've got in the financial system. We have a deficit, we have a financial indiscipline, we have financial irresponsibility, and a little bit of the unseriousness of the state authorities, because they do nothing to see the real situation, they propose adequate measures and they make strict application of the legal rules that are very restrictive, which are very rigid, which are very rigid, which are very strict. But we don't have state institutions, we don't have state authorities and we don't have an adequate policy of working inspections, and in particular budget inspections, tax police, tax administrations that properly and adequately control the work of financial entities. For years, the EU has indicated that the country lacks adequate sustainability measures for the financial system. Have we, by this law, made a single step in terms of creating legal conditions and legal measures for the sustainability of the financial system as a proposing of this law? Is your biggest problem the limit you've defined here regarding the budget deficit and the government deficit? Did you adequately address the issue of government borrowing? In no case has that been solved. This country's biggest problem is financial indiscipline. Last year, when we adopted the Budget System Act, you said it was the most modern, it was the most modern, it was the law that would solve all problems in this area, and we see after a year we have a new one, next year we will discuss the new law on amendments and additions to the Budget System Act, etc. So, the legislator instead of going to the strict application of all the legal rules that we have, adopted by this assembly, which have been passed, he goes into one rigid definition of a certain concept, which is now modern in Europe, but only because of the problems they have in Europe. Europe has a deficit three to four times higher, all countries in Europe have three to four times more deficits than this country has. Furthermore, their debt, their public debt, we heard from counterpart Mirovic, 100% compared to GDP, is the case in Italy, this is the case in Belgium. We have states that are somewhere at 80%, even France, even Germany, etc. Look, they don't care. Why? Because they have financial discipline, because they have sources of income. What are our sources of income? You, Mrs Dragutinović, know very well that in the last four years, we have almost the same revenue in the budget, from about 580 to 650 billion dinars, that's a very small difference. The tax categories belong to 92-93%, and there are few incomes left, i.e. budget receipts and they are such minors, we do not increase them. The state does nothing, or you do nothing to increase the tax system, to relieve taxpayers in terms of tax cuts and tax obligations. The expenditures from year to year are getting bigger and bigger. Since 2006, when we had a budget deficit of 13 billion, today we're talking, last year it's somewhere over 100 billion, this year it's going to be, God forbid it ends at 120, just the central state. Then what are we talking about? About 2006, from 13, now over 100? It's ten times, it's not 10%, it's ten times the increase in the budget deficit. What did the government do to see the real situation? The first commitment of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, are you running away from it, you had to look at three very important segments – first, revenues, expenditures and how to balance incomes and expenditures, further, how to increase exports, increase employment, increase the various other elements that are important elements of GDP and how to reduce public spending, how to reduce the liquidity of the economy, how to reduce society's liquidity. Without it, you, as finance minister, can do nothing until you do a real analysis with real indicators and measures to overcome it. This is ridiculous. You'll limit two categories, and you know you're doing our BDP yourself, that here as MPs, I've been here five years, six years, I've never been able to get as a MP, and neither of you could get all the elements of GDP. When we analyze data from the Bureau of Statistics, the National Banks, the Government, it's different data. In particular, the Ministry of Trade says trade participation is 11%. The National Bank says it's between 12 and 15%. Statistics says it's about 10.22%. What exactly is that? Why is that different? If we go from being different, it means someone's doing this hairstyle or someone's doing a methodology that's not even. Who guarantees us that tomorrow, if you need it, especially because of a controller called the IMF, that tomorrow you won't also hair that GDP, that we frame it within 1% or that it's 42.7%, that it's not 45%, what you predicted by this law. Mrs Dragutinovic, until you do a proper analysis of the financial system, to see all the problems in that financial system, and do not take measures, you will not have a responsible policy. You in Article 27a, the head is 2a – the general fiscal framework, you say – responsibility, so you mention the government's responsibility, the government is responsible for the implementation of fiscal policy and the management of public finances and the funds of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the principles, rules, procedures laid down by this law. Until you do what I say, there won't be a government responsible, there won't be a responsible finance ministry and this people won't know where it is. What is important to say under this law – to form a fiscal institute that is prescribed by the EU rule. Maybe that's a good thing to copy, follow a parallel right and adjust our financial system based on it, but that's all that's possible. Now I'll tell you why it's not good in our case. Because by forming a fiscal council, you show the impotence of the fiscal system, and especially the controller of the fiscal system. If you inaugurate the advice into a body that will control the entire financial system, it means that there are problems in the financial system that you can't channel, you can't control, you can't be an adequate supervisory body of the financial system. So our financial system is designed in a way that we can't, or that certain currents pop up, that we can't track, that there are some lobbys that do what they do, and we know in practice that we have and that we're trying to solve certain problems this way. This advice, which should be the controller of the entire financial system, the fiscal system, should, according to the legislator's concept, be an organ that will remove all irregularities that we have in the system. Three men, then they'll end it all, all the shortcomings, all the miss, they'll see it when they see it... It's not gonna happen. We need to see for real what our financial system is like. On the financial system, I'm going to quote you specifically the position of the banks and the banking system. The banks are left alone to do what they want. A capital that has no control, it turns into its opposite. In the right sense, banks have become bearers of crime, speculative relations with that capital and have become institutions that kidnap, break, break etc. It's just the beginning. We currently have about 15 billion euros in funding, which brings citizens, which is for entrepreneurs, which is for legal persons and for this liquidity, insolvencies of the entire economic system, to the position of the bank that we have opened up the financial market for them, those very handlers, etc. So far, we don't have the severance rate as much as we have in the west, but we'll have far more. The National Bank, which is supposed to be the controller, to control the banking system, was missing it. Why? Because banking circles, especially because governors and people from the National Bank and brought in these banks are lobbying, including involving individual banking systems and bringing into the Republic of Serbia, so we have a very bad system. Given the times, I can't elaborate any more problems in banking. I'll stop at another area you don't control. Privatisation has given individuals the opportunity to enter certain activities through privatised companies, to be abused and we today have one percent that I have recently read, that of 1,800 companies that are not now covered by the termination of the contract, that we have one third of those who have entered into bankruptcy or will go bankrupt. Why bankruptcy? Did any of the government or the supervisory departments analyze this case and take certain measures? Because through these companies, we first abuse property, abuse capital, abuse stockpiles, indemnify these companies, and then get them thrown into bankruptcy. Everything that's active and that's healthy capital and healthy supplies, we get rid of everything. This way we get rid of the biggest ballast, and the biggest ballast is workers, after which we do what we want and out of bankruptcy, through this law we have a reconstruction, and thus we can get one dead tissue from a healthy tissue, get out of bankruptcy completely healthy and free from debt and workers and enter into a new business. So one third of these, I end up, just another sentence, to get back to the law, this law solves only one change from what we have in the financial system. Do an analysis and go to the MPs with a clear position of the financial system, with all problems and resolution measures. This requires you from the European Union clearly and decided from year to year, and in 2006 it is clear to you that you need to bring sustainability measures to the financial system. We didn't have any measure to resuscitate the financial system until today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44101	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44102	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, we have today a law that you have proposed in the budget system and you think that this law will solve many of the problems that have accumulated in this country and that no one in the government has the power to start solving. Nothing, unfortunately, here's the third year, the third season, now at the end of the year will end the third cycle, and no single problem is set to be solved. We're just getting into new problems, and we don't have solutions for any segment in the economy. I expected from you when you came to this post as a young and educated woman, you came with some experience, to make some moves, but you failed, simply, to drown yourself in this one apathy that has for years ruled in that budget system, which works where many others lead and hold the key levers of budgeting, budget spending, and you as finance minister, good government minister and ruling coalition, you sign, nod, you approve, because you have no place to go to get out of that story, and that's why we're all doing this. None of you were better than Mirko Cvetkovic. I remember perfectly when I was sitting in government with him as finance minister. He never said he couldn't do anything. Instead of him, Gilas, another, third politician, came forward, they suggested something, and he nodded, okay, he could, and so it all went. He's a prime minister now, he's nodding, he can do anything, everything's fine, and we have these problems that we have in the country for years and we haven't moved anything. I was expecting some shifts, but there weren't any. Basically, in order to survive one state, it must have a real budget charge. We haven't had a real budget charge in years, we artificially charge it, and we simply owe the state, we sell everything that can be sold, just to survive one year, and next year we sell again and what isn't for sale, which is the golden coke for Serbia, what brings us the most income, because only to survive. You never had the strength to cut things off. I'm looking at this year that's under way, and you're, instead of reducing budget spending, that budget users are less withdrawing funds, you're investing through loans, and you're still increasing the budget. Imagine what a illogicality this is, because you're raising loans and making more budget costs next year than they were this year, instead of hiring people on credit lines, bringing new revenues, increasing exports and disbursing budgets, you're taking it backwards. Why? I often wonder why you do it and why do you have the right to do something like that? I'll give you an example, you invest a billion where we won't get a dinar next year, we'll get a new budget burden, and there's no law or change of any law to get you out of the situation you're going into. The ministers are completely disintegrated, disintegrated, and you have no control over them. You can't control any ministry, you can't control any consumption. I knew that this situation would be last year when the budget was adopted, when you had huge funds in the NIP position unscheduled, undefined, and where there was no idea what these funds would be spent on and where it simply leaves the ministry to simply run the campaign, work and make regions, to throw money there and spend the unfavorable budget funds into the wrong investments. You don't invest where you're going to get your income, where you're going to charge the budget for next year, but vice versa. Here's a concrete example, you've let as finance minister that a group of ministers literally do what they want, like a private campaign, go there for some lunch, promise something to do, lie down on the ore, and invest millions of money. The President of the Council is the President of the State. He invests in corridors that have no traffic to make a loss next year, in order to garner Europe. He doesn't invest where the traffic is 27,000 cars a day and invests where 3,000 cars are a day. Is that normal? You'll have a loan next year, a commitment. Next year, you will have 3,000 euros to maintain the highway per km, per month. Huge spending of budget funds. You work the highway now, Madam Minister, just laugh, where the charge has been for 20 years, and you don't do it where it will bring income and where it will pay off the investment in, for example, a few years and where it will increase employment. It's all political. All your projects that are currently under construction are specifically politicised and political investments. Why? Because you have a coalition of 15 coalition partners. Fifteen coalition partners to make peace, it's too expensive a government. Those 15 coalition partners, to satisfy their voters to pass next election, they're looking for, and you don't have the strength to say this can, this can't. You're in charge, the state's in charge. You approve, and everything goes wrong. Let's take the Old Mountain. To get a certain politician there, some electoral body, whom he promised to build, was invested billions. And they all forgot the Old Mountain. Nobody's there anymore, they're not going, they're not talking about it. Madam Minister, when you look at the responsibilities, how is it possible that the Beška bridge, which is 2,400 meters long in the Danube, which will currently be the largest in Europe, will cost 56m euros in length, and the Sava bridge, which is a stream compared to the Danube, where it is built, is 250m euros. You don't care. No one's controlling it. We will say – it will be very beautiful. That doesn't mean it's gonna be that expensive. How beautiful, they won't have pillars in the river, they'll have cables and they'll wear that central pillar. It's one way to build a bridge, and the other one will have 24 rows of pillars in the river. How is it possible that the Sava bridge costs so much more than the Danube Bridge, where the Danube is deep 17 meters, where the height of one pillar is 100 meters, where it will be the highest pillar in the state on bridges and 56m euros, and here someone is throwing 250m euros? You do when you're in charge of the loan, you say-- it's a loan, we don't care, it doesn't have to be paid out of the budget right now. So what's happening now is that we have one megalomanic consumption from a small budget, which is impossible to solve in a more quality way. How many people have been employed this year, how much has been employed in the last three years, how much has the revenue in the budget increased, how much has the pension fund been disbursed by the new employee who will be paying into it? None. The workers were fired, the number of employees decreased. You with this condition now, when you look at the relationship of a working-age population, when you look at the relationship of people who are actually getting paid, those who are waiting for a job, which is over a million, the number of pensioners who are over a million and two hundred thousand, if you were able to put this on their feet, you would get the Nobel Prize for the economy. Your parameters are getting more and more catastrophic every month and we're getting into an ever-increasing dubiosis and we're going to get into bigger problems and we're going to have a growing problem with budgeting. You are now ordering that there be some control. It is control, but party control. It has never been allowed for some commission of this parliament, as we once proposed, to control certain positions of budget spending, but you always return – it was a budgetary inspection. The budget inspection is yours. You set up the audit committee and it will all go round and round and nothing more important can happen in Serbia. Let's take how much has been invested this year in export companies and what Serbia now has to export. Nothing, ma'am, a little corn, a little wheat in the pit, there's nothing of it, a little raspberries, a little plum, that's all crumbs. What are we importing? Energies, confecture, all alive. China will occupy Belgrade a little more. Now you allow market centres, open market, we're gonna open it all up, you can come to Serbia all, you don't need certification, you don't need anything. That's how a system in the state was completely broken. Your banks, at the invitation of Minister Dinkic, give credit. They don't need papers, they don't need paperwork, they don't need anything. Dinkic is a friend of Tomica Milosavljevic, Lala Sekulic has raised a 500 million-dollar loan on his phone. From Chachanska Banka and now he's got brain amnesia, he's forgotten everything. He bought a miracle, took care of it, opened the company to his son, and now Lale Sekulić is retired, he doesn't remember anything, and no one can ask him anything, because everyone participated with him in those shops. Then who will pay those healthy businessmen whose money is given. He's making a drug factory, he's bringing drugs from China, he's packing, Tomica's buying it, just rocking and we're falling apart, and you're doing nothing. What have you done for such violations? Nothing, you don't have the strength, ma'am. A thousand things happened, we borrowed a lot of credit, made hospitals, bought equipment. People set fire to hospitals, nothing to show. When the World Bank inspection came, what did they have to see? No one calls the fire department. What did you do? Nothing, 'cause if Tomica moves out, the government falls. If Junior says the government falls, it's not our way, it happens very often to him, as soon as someone catches him up a little bit, but he's the main player in the next government, instead of being picked up and said, "Hello, you can't do it anymore." What was in the farm? It's just an empty story. In the building of apartments? Dulic made thousands of apartments, I don't know who's going to live in those apartments anymore, 500 euros are apartments. Where are your apartments? Just show us one thing. He's gone. Now we're going into investment, we're going to a rich country, bring the Chinese to build us a bridge. Credit lines are going to hire our people. When you push Belgrade full of Chinese, I don't know what you'll do after that, will they leave, and all will be introduced from China, and iron, material, etc.? What should Serbia do, live on what? This is where everything is imported, we don't have any exports. Did you ever, as finance minister, ask Dinkic, this year we invested 700m euros in Fiat, in 2010, he promised 200,000 fulls to go to the Russian market, so can anyone ask your colleague Dinkic what is with the 200,000 cars, where are they? Are they manufactured? He can't even make 10 grand, ma'am. Do you know what the failures are? Who's gonna pay for that? Therefore, you can make laws of whatever you want, with this import, but without export there is no life. Serbia has nothing to take out, there's nowhere to hire. We make industrial zones, so we call them modern industrial parks. You know how nice that sounds when you say "Young Man on TV" - three industrial parks build in Zajecar? The rabbit will blossom. Five industrial parks in the province. What kind of industrial park? Where is this company? What happened to that "Jura" in Raca? Every day, you've killed us on TV. Five people from Ratche work there, the rest of them drive on the side. What's the problem? What are the salaries? How do you charge the budget? There is no life for pensioners and pensions until new 200-300,000 people are employed in Serbia. What did you do to hire people? Nothing. Three billion IMFs, it cuts slowly and none of it does. Hundreds of millions there, hundreds of them here, and none of it will be. Therefore, I advise you not to pass these laws, or to scrutinize it properly, or to stay away honestly and honestly. We're all responsible here, and the position and opposition that allows it. It's gonna cost us all, and we're gonna pay for it. You never said if Serbia needs the NIP ministry. What do you do if you need the NIP? Why are all the money in the economy in the NIP? Who authorized one party to control all the money in the state? Who gave them the right? The Development Fund, what's it charging from? Who's filling it and how? What's the administration that got involved here, etc? There's got to be something to do, if you can do it, and if you can't do it, then you have to get away because this country is coming into a difficult situation. New year's coming, people can't pay for electricity, they can't pay their dues. Here's an info, 100,000 families in Belgrade have received court rulings that will begin to be carried out. (President: Mr. Ilic, your 20 minutes are up. How Can You Survive? Here's the gas. How do we survive this winter, in what way?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44103	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Madam Minister, if you want a word, you have to sign in. The word has a minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as always this debate was very interesting and constructive and everyone, and especially critics, I thank you for it. I will refer only to some of the criticisms or inconsistencies or questions referred to me as ministers, and if I accidentally leave out something large, I promise that I am here during the period of discussion in particular, when I will answer every single question asked. Some MPs have been critical of the role played by the IMF when this law, its writing and its adoption are at stake. Again, other MPs have practically provided support for the programme we have with the IMF. They can't all be satisfied. But it seems to me that some members of the apriors have something against programming conditions, programs with the IMF, even when the proposal is good. I've said more than once that in my long experience, I laughed, Mr. Ilic, only when you said I was young, and only then did I laugh when it came to your presentation, I analyzed the IMF programme, and no matter what I often criticized, especially some of the solutions that they suggested when it came to this law, there was an idea that on average every country should do much more than what the IMF really requires. What this law is, it's actually embezzling elements of economic theory into positive legal regulations. What's wrong with putting the principles of economic theory in place? I always believe in economic theory, and it teaches us that the best countries that respect economic theory are in the direction of monetary and fiscal policy. There are rules for monetary policy that say – when you have inflation you have to use funds such as interest rates or mandatory reserves. When you have deflation, you also use it, only in the other direction. When you are in recession you must use the deficit. It is not true that budgetary balance is always a good instrument for fiscal policy. When you're in expansion, then you can and should have a budget surplus. So, then when we consult and use the theory to run macroeconomic policy, there's little chance of making a mistake. In that sense, this law and its basic part, which is why we change it by introducing rules of fiscal responsibility, should be understood - the introduction of principles of economic theory into the law. So there shouldn't be anything controversial about it. More than once, I was asked by the MPs what a public debt was. Perhaps some other topic, or other gathering, would be a more appropriate stage for discussing it. I'd just like to tell you a few things about the public debt, but I still don't want anyone to respect me for giving a lecture. So there is an extremely strong dependence between fiscal policy and public debt. Public debt is due to accumulated fiscal deficits. In this sense, the newer literature distinguishes terms, so it says there is a term of public debt, there is a term of sovereign debt and there is a term of debt of the general state. Mastricht criteria, those famous 60% refer only to the general government's debt, do not apply to the public and do not refer to government debt. When we consult our public debt law, it has not long changed in that section regarding the definition of public debt, I think since 2005, and should change, but in that definition, as well as in the definition of public debt of a large number of countries, there is no debt of the central bank towards international financial institutions, or the IMF, simply because it has absolutely nothing to do with fiscal policy. When we talk about the quality of fiscal policy, we always look at these two indicators: deficit, public debt and their interdependence. You can have an IMF program, be in charge of it to support foreign reserves, and have a nonstop fiscal surplus. In that sense, please, when we talk about public debt in the way it is prescribed by our law, in the way that EU countries commit it, it is the debt of the general government and has nothing to do with monetary policy and the debt of the central bank. It's a whole other thing when we're talking about external debt. It's part of the foreign debt, but it's not a debt of the general state. Someone said that our country is over-indebted and again saying about this only relationship between deficits and public debt I have to say that I really don't know what literature and data our country's over-indebted debt is drawn from. So, we may like it or not like what the state owes, I'm underlining again, we're not alone, we're not the only ones, you can look at the last "Economist" and at all a large number of statistics that talk about the debt of the general government debt and you'll see that we're at the bottom of the scale. According to estimates, only four countries in Europe will have less public debt than Serbia in 2011. So that's not the problem. A much bigger problem is essentially the quality of fiscal policy. Also some MPs have been criticised for amending and supplementing this law as a step backwards from the new law we adopted in July. Two arguments are given, and I'd just like to brief you on that. One is that we've deleted the gambling fee and instead put a concession fee on it. The concession fee is a broad term. What I'm saying is that concession fees include fees for organising gambling because concessions are essentially fees for using a certain natural wealth, but also for the practical organisation of a job that is important for a country like gambling. In order not to have to change the law with every new concession fee, we thought it would be better to use that general expression of concession fees instead of gambling fees. Also, the list of beneficiaries of public funds, in the previous version of the law, said that the Ministry of Finance was responsible for it, and now it's changed, I must say, on the express request of Eurostat. So, according to good practice, in all European countries statistics are responsible for the list of users. It's a direct request from Eurostat, and in that sense it was their complaint that we installed, but we left it to do statistics, along with the finance ministry in a way, just in case. Flexible in budget implementation has also been criticised. I have to say again, but I don't want to be honored to give a lecture, there's a lot of literature about it, or about flexibility in budget implementation. It is a very important issue, and it is necessary that the finance minister has a certain flexibility, first of all, because the future is really uncertain, which you can't assess all well, what assumptions change, interest rates, rates, social product estimates, which are changing the prices of the instructions on the world market. So there must be some flexibility. It's all just a matter of measure. Looking at our law, it doesn't allow much flexibility, and that's why we wanted to put more flexibility into these changes essentially. This flexibility will not be greater than one and a half percent of the social product, which is truly considered to be an exceptional re-reliance that flexibility exists and that flexibility is not great. So 1.5% and not expenditure, but income and income, to change something in that budget so that you don't break the law and that parliament doesn't think that you're not implementing the law is really minimal what we've done in terms of increasing flexibility. Let me remind you that many countries have several, so to speak, valves to increase flexibility in execution. One valve is this larger budget reserve than otherwise known in our budget-making practice. In our methodology there are these variants that within the ministry you can use these 5% download and put on one side or the other. In many countries, however, it is also done between ministries. In many countries, for example in France, there are items that you can overcome, such as expenditure on interest, etc., there are items that you can do even more than you planned. There is, of course, an opportunity to save the appraisals, to transfer those savings appraisals over the next year and so on. So, out of a large number of opportunities to increase the flexibility of the budget, the finance ministry's proposal was extremely modest, limiting only the possibility of carrying out a slightly different budget than parliament adopts, but only to 1.5% of income and income. There have been many criticisms about the fiscal council and its members and so on. his independence or addiction. I may be able to understand that opposition MPs don't like the Ministry of Finance's proposal, but I haven't seen a counterproposal given anywhere. Who is it that should propose that he chooses members of the fiscal council? I'm not ready for this in my life to experiment especially in this place. I think this is the most common model. What I could choose, whether smaller or larger fiscal advice, I chose smaller. There is no fiscal council that has fewer members than three. So that's something I could have affected. This is in line with the already known solutions, but I really think that the expertise and high requirements that this law puts before future members are something that will determine their objectivity. I don't believe in punishment and sanctions, that's what I have to say. I've really read a lot of laws myself, probably more than 30. I know that the fiscal councils have 60 countries and that there are only sanctions in one country. The country is Brazil and after a long period of violation, and these sanctions are only institutional. So, local levels are being punished that do not adhere to fiscal rules. Who will be on the council, whether ton of young people are inexperienced or more experienced, I always think, regardless of their age, that at some point you can no longer follow what science produces every day and that you can hardly find everything in one person, and great experience and newest knowledge. That's why we've left the possibility of young people from prestigious colleges who have specific skills that are rare and at the same time being people with experience. I hope that this combination of youth and experience is best and should be the greatest advantage of our fiscal council. I'd like to underline the difference that exists between the fiscal council and the DRI. They just have a different function. The fiscal council assesses the quality of fiscal policy and what is said in terminology – the value for the money you invested, the DRI only assesses whether the funds are used on purpose. In practice, it is quite possible to lead, what we would say, irresponsible fiscal policy, therefore, pro-cyclical fiscal policy, but to purposely spend funds, as you may have an extremely responsible fiscal policy, macroeconomicly observed, but that you are not purposelessly spending some money. In the end, I would end up with two more things, one of the MPs asked me why I said I regretted now why this wasn't a special law. So, I always wanted it to be a special law, but when you make and when you propose laws, there are always some compromises. Why do I think this was supposed to be a special law? Well, let's just say, similar to the NBS Act, I'm only entering its purely economic part where you have a clear objective, you have the instruments to achieve that goal, and so the Pandan of that law would be the fiscal responsibility law, where you would have a clear goal, that's fiscal adjustment and clear instruments how to achieve it. However, this was an explicit request from the IMF not to double the law, that we do not have a large number of laws that regulate a very similar area. For me to give up a different name of the law or to fight for the very essence of the proposal, it was more important to do so and therefore we don't have a special law. I would like it to remain behind me to try to keep fiscal policy from this and all governments leading towards fiscal rules in the future. The fiscal rules really are neither necessary nor sufficient conditions, I agree with all of them. Some countries are budgetaryly disciplined and without fiscal rules, but I have to say, there are few of them. Other countries are irresponsible despite the existence of fiscal rules. There are no guarantees, but once again I underline that countries are rules, there are empirical research, on average more responsible and lead a better policy. I sincerely hope that this will be the budgetary policy of the Republic of Serbia since 2011, and therefore I ask you all once again to think twice about voting day, no matter what side you are on, support these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44105	I thank Mrs. Minister Diana Dragutinovic and conclude the search in principle. We move on to a common principle search of item 2 and 3 of the agenda: – Proposal for an ACCREDITATION LAW AND A PROPOSAL OF THE CONSUMER PROTECTION LAW compliant with Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representative of the rapporteur Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Dr Tomice Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, I invited the members to attend and Ljiljana Stanković, Assistant Minister of Trade and Services, Dusan Protic, Assistant Minister of Trade and Services, Nebojsa Lazarevic, Assistant Minister of Trade and Services, Jelena Popović, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development and Ljiljana Tomić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Health. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint principled search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours and shall be distributed as follows: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliament's group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Sending group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that under this agenda, MPs Dr Nikola Krpic, the PUPS MP, Zoran Bortic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, Donka Banovic, the DSS parliamentary group – Vojislav Kostunica, Vlajko Senic, MP group G 17 plus, Milorad Buha SRS, and Dejan Nikolic ZES. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Joint Principled Search on the Proposal for a Law on Accreditation and a Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the accreditation law regulates accreditation, position and work of the national body for accreditation of RS, as well as other issues of importance for accreditation. By 2006, the area was in charge of the first SFRY, so SRJ, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The provisions of the applicable Accreditation Act are established as a non-profit organisation outside the state administration system. In order to comply with the RS legal system, the government decided to establish Serbia's accreditation body and set up this body was carried out according to the generally accepted principles on which national accreditation bodies were organised in EU countries. This body was registered at the Commercial Court in Belgrade on 8 December 2006 as a national accreditation body that manages the accreditation system in Serbia and represents the top of the quality infrastructure system. In the area of infrastructure, quality assessment of conformity of products, processes and services with technical regulations and standards shall be carried out by professional and technically qualified bodies to assess the conformity of products, such as laboratories, certification and control bodies. Accreditation shall in an independent and impartial manner assess the competence of the body to assess the conformity of the product. One of the previous conditions for RS entry into the EU is the full membership of this body in the European Co-operation for Accreditation and Accession of multilateral agreements on mutual recognition, establishing a single market without technical barriers. The work of the body must be fully in line with the requirements of the standard. General requests for an accreditation body, which credentials bodies for conformity assessment, must meet all accreditation bodies or those wishing to become members. The main objective of the transformation of the national body for accreditation by an independent non-profit organisation into a public service is in fact to specify the status of this body for accreditation in the quality infrastructure system in Serbia, as well as to create the possibility that the body, when conditions are met, will acquire full membership status in European organisations, accreditation associations, which is one of the preconditions for joining the EU RS. Given the emerging situation after the end of the state union, as well as the need to meet Serbia's requirements for membership in the World Trade Organisation and the EU, it is necessary for RS as an independent and sovereign state to pass its accreditation law. Although solutions to the new law in certain segments do not differ significantly from solutions under the applicable law, this law more precisely regulates the legal status, organisation and manner of the operation of the accreditation body, the procedure for the allocation, renewal, change of scope, suspension or abolition of accreditation, cross-border accreditation, and the collegiate assessment procedure by the accreditation body of other countries, supervision of the work of the body for the assessment of compliance in the course of the validity of the accreditation decision by the body, as well as supervision of the work of the body carried out by the ministry in charge of accreditation tasks. Given that the RS has ratified the SAA, as well as that it actively conducts accession negotiations in the World Trade Organisation, it is necessary to fulfil the obligations arising from this, in particular in the work relating to faster harmonisation of national technical legislation with EU technical legislation and with the principles of the World Trade Organisation. So one of these rules is this law, whose adoption is proposed by an emergency procedure, since it is the material and legal basis for carrying out accreditation tasks, which, in accordance with the European Parliament and the Council of Europe's July 2008 regulation, is the most desirable means to demonstrate the competence of the body to assess compliance. The adoption of this law will contribute to the full membership of Serbia's accreditation body in relevant European and international accreditation and participation organisations in their work, a prerequisite for the effective and optimal performance of accreditation and the achievement of internationally recognised standards in this area. That is why we feel that the adoption of this law will be not such a difficult job for MPs in the National Assembly and an opportunity to achieve a unique attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44107	Mr. Free Milosavljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44108	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to introduce you to the proposal for a new consumer protection law, a law on which this ministry has been working practically for two years. We are working together with the first European consumer protection project ZAP, a project and law that has been in public debate for more than a year, which has visited dozens of cities in Serbia. A few dozen meetings have been organised and we have made efforts to bring together opinions, suggestions, suggestions and proposals to the Government and you with one, I would say, modern, quality, applicable and according to all standards and criteria of European consumer protection law. Otherwise, this area of consumer protection is an area that is in modern market economies in dynamic development. In the past ten years of intense transition changes in Serbia, it has also been recognised that this area should be upgraded, modernised, harmonised with European standards, but not only because of European standards, but primarily because of the needs of ordinary people, citizens, each of us individually who are in the role of consumers each day and sometimes we are more than once in a day in the role of consumers. Therefore, this law and this area deserve to be located in the epicentre, the focus of overall economic and market developments. I would especially like to stress that consumer protection and constitutional category are in the Republic of Serbia, as Article 90 is. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia determines that the Republic of Serbia protects consumers, as well as that specifically prohibited actions are directed against the health, safety and privacy of consumers, as well as any dishonest activities on the market. The law is a new phase in building a system of legal protection in the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, the law contains a general declaration of consumer rights contained and still in force by the Consumer Protection Act. However, further concreteisation contained in this law is a major twist, I would say, in a conceptual sense, and in the direction of a single, European legal framework for consumer protection. This means that, in relation to the rules in this area so far, for the first time, a system that is fully in line with consumer protection standards in the EU single market is established, and in a sense, as regards the rules laid down, as well as with respect to mechanisms for implementing the consumer's declared protection. The special legal protection provided for by this law belongs exclusively to consumers. In other words, this law offers its kind of positive discrimination for the benefit of consumers, in the right jobs related to the purchase of goods and services. The reasons for such access to problems lies in the fact that the trader, because of his expertise, information, financial and any other force, appears as a dominant party in a contractual relationship with the consumer. This contractual relationship is the inevitableness of any transport of goods and services. The specific rights provided for by this law provide consumers with a more favourable position, and imposes obligations on traders, removes an objective inequality in a mutual relationship on the market. A new consumer protection law introduces 15 European directives from this area into our legal system, and I will repeat again, a consumer protection system is established in accordance with European standards. In other words, when this law is passed, and I firmly believe that all of you as consumers will support this law and the solutions proposed, the average consumer in the Republic of Serbia will be, no less, but in almost identical ways, protected as the consumer of any EU country. This law brings numerous newspapers. One of them is the precision of the consumer's concept. In this case, it's a purely physical face. It brings, as I said, stricter requirements to traders who have to give clear information and information to the consumer about the product before the conclusion of the purchase agreement, on the reception of certain services. In other words, consumers must be fully informed and informed of all product or service characteristics before deciding to supply the product or service to themselves. It defines the regulatory arrangements for a distance contract and contracts concluded outside the business premises and allows for the termination of those contracts within 14 days, as well as the extension of the producer's responsibilities for things with shortages. The new law specifically regulates travel contracts and the time-sharing use of immovableity, etc. "Tim Sherring." The legal guarantee for the sale of goods and services will be, when this law is passed for two years, and in the event of a shortage in the first six months, the burden of proof is on the trader. The consumer does not have to prove that he did not cause this deficiency and is presumed to exist at the time of purchase of these products or the supply of services. The law is divided into 16 heads. There are 155 members in total. He replaces two existing laws that are in force. It is the Consumer Protection Act and the producer's responsibility for things with shortages, both from 2005. The start of a public debate on the draft of this law was September 1st last year. At that time, we also had the opportunity to host the European Consumer Protection Commissioner, i.e. consumer rights, Mrs Maglen Kunovo, and thus, in a way, confirm that everything that has been done in this law has been done in the previous two years in this segment, has been done with close consultation and co-operation with the European consumer rights commissioner. The papers passed by the law are in line with all the current European law in this area. In addition to the definition of consumers as a natural person, this law also adopts a paper in the practice of stricter requirements on the part of traders and service providers, in terms of consumer notification and prior to the conclusion of the contract and of price emphasis, extensive regulation for the distance contract, contracts concluded outside the business premises, extension of the responsibility of manufacturers for things with a lack, in particular regulation of travel contracts and time-sharing of immovable use, in particular regulation of the contract on the sale of goods and services, the institutional and strategic framework for consumer protection, services of general economic interest. The concept of a threatened consumer, the method of non-judicial dispute resolution, unfairly, and in the context of it misleading and dissuasive business, unfair contractual provisions, the ban on selling and serving, the donation of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products to persons under 18 years of age, the criminal penalties in cases of price failure, unfair business, the sale of alcoholic beverages and tobacco, the procedure and measures for the prohibition of unfair contracts, provisions and unrespected business and many other things contained in this draft law. I would especially like to point out, because this has been a topic in the previous days, and it has been a controversy about it, that, in agreement with the NBS, the NBS proposal from this law excludes the Consumer Credits Directive and that it will be subject to a new law that will, of course, be proposed, with the co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Trade and Services and other ministries, the NBS. The working name of this law is the law on the protection of the users of banking services. It offers one broader framework for guaranteeing rights to consumers of banking services outside only consumer loans, but relates to total banking services. A promise from the NBS colleagues that this law will be completed by the end of October, given for public debate and that during November or early December it should be found before you MPs, which practically means that on the date of entry into force of this new consumer rights law and this new law, a labour law on the protection of banking services would become operational. It's January 1st next year. In other words, the rights of all of us as consumers and consumers of consumer credit and banking services will be even greater than originally provided for by the Consumer Rights Act. There are many more concrete details that this law also adopts and newspapers that, once again, are adapted to our legal system and essentially contain the most European standards in the area of consumer protection. I would ask you to apply constructively to this law and to give support to this law in the day of voting, and once again, that this is indeed a law concerning all citizens of Serbia and all of us as consumers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44109	Thank you, Dr. Milosavljevic, our minister. I would like to inform you that for the New Serbia parliamentary group, according to items 2 and 3 of the agenda, the representative will be the MP Aleksandra Jankovic, and the representative of the LDP parliamentary group will be MP Zoran Ostojic. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, MP, Mr Srboljub Zivanovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44110	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, we discussed this law. What is interesting is that the reason for the adoption of this law is too much of an Agreement on Stabilisation and Association, as well as that negotiations on accession to the World Trade Organisation are partly held. I must say that the objective of this law is to create a single control body that will also control the control body. I do not know at all the purpose of adopting such a law or accreditation body, as you say – a control body, which should in some way meet all the criteria of import goods. We look here and we want to protect the importer, but no, in no way do we want to protect our products. All the time, these two laws today, the law on accreditation and consumer law, are two laws that intertwine with each other. As a man from the economy, it seems to me few who only theoretically want to show one thing rather than in fact in a single desire to protect consumers, i.e. to protect the Serbian market as well. It was actually a question on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, where we wanted to protect our market in some way. We know well, here Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic talked about this law, but I would ask him what control it was about importing vaccines. You well know, the citizens of Serbia were great skeptics, your arrogant response, which probably on certain shows was such that you wouldn't let the citizens, or those who were leading the conversation with you ask you an adequate question, but you kept saying that it was all right. If everything's okay, which is why you, Mr. Minister, had to go into surgery outside of Serbia, because you didn't trust... (President: Mr. Zivanovic, I would ask you to stick to the agenda and to act as chairman of the Committee, because that is how you received the word, as rapporteur of the Committee, to state the position of the Committee. Thank you. You interrupted me, so I wanted to finish, to move on, I say, you had no confidence in that control body that was supposed to control whether equipment or certain medical medications. As far as this accreditation body is concerned, it is, in fact, a pure political body, again as one body that would have had both the board of directors and the supervisory board, like all other institutions that would have been filled on the basis of political similarities. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that by using this accreditation body, you actually want to prevent corruption and crime, but it seems to me that by using or performing this function, this control body allows corruption and crime to increase more and more in this country. What I also want to say is one example, as a man from the economy (President: Time). This concludes, where I will later continue as a speaker in the SRS parliamentary group. I'll keep talking about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44111	Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on European Integration, Mr Laslo Varga, and the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, MP Dejan Nikolic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44112	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning I must thank all Members of the Committee on Trade and Tourism for holding three very important and very important sessions in just two days. This morning, we held a session dedicated to the consumer protection law, where, besides the minister, representatives of the Ministry, representatives of relevant consumer associations, who could, in a direct conversation with the minister, with us, as decision-makers, express their opinion on this law and point to some problems. Simply, all their proposals will be considered as amendments. I must also express my great satisfaction that this law has passed a broad public debate, thus allowing many citizens, citizens' associations to change this law, which is a fundamental democratic principle. Most of the votes were supported and passed by the committee. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, we are talking about once again in a series of laws in the area of trade that in one very modern way regulates this area, following trends, trends in modern trade, but in a very clear way sets standards for all our citizens. This law places all our citizens, including me in Sokobanja, but also in Subotica, Belgrade, Smedereva, Kragujevac in the same position as the citizens of EU countries, and puts our country in line for modern, developed, democratic states that care for an ordinary man as a consumer. It is true that 15 European directives have been introduced into this law. This says that today we are talking about a European law, we are talking about harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, but the essence and purpose of this law does not really lie in the constitutional obligation to adopt it, nor does it lie under the obligation under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement of our country. The essence of the adoption of this law lies in the interest of our citizens in the role of consumers and the protection of their fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44113	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Nikola Krpić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam President, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Ministers, I will speak of both laws in front of the PUPS. The accreditation law, proposed by the Serbian government, should regulate all issues raised by the government's decision, taken in 2006. year, it was in line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia because the area of accreditation until then was regulated by the Law of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. The decision established Serbia's accreditation body on the generally accepted principles on which national accreditation bodies were organised in EU countries. Connecting the accreditation system in Serbia with the European and world accreditation systems will ensure recognition and acceptance of the results of the conformity assessment done in Serbia. Serbia's accreditation body is co-operating in the area of accreditation with authorities and organisations from the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the rules stemming from the EU law and standards and thus not jeopardising its independence. It is very important to stress that one of the previous conditions for the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the EU and full membership of Serbia's accreditation body in the European accreditation and accession co-operation with multilateral agreements on mutual recognition, establishing a single market, without technical barriers to trade. In this regard, it is precisely the primary goal of transforming the national accreditation body from an independent non-profit organisation into a public service, which will specify the status of this body and allow it to acquire full membership status in European accreditation associations in the coming period, which is one of the preconditions for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. If the situation arises after the end of the existence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as the need to meet the requirements for membership of the Republic of Serbia in the World Trade Organisation and the EU, it was necessary for the Republic of Serbia as an independent and sovereign state to pass such a law on accreditation. It is important to stress that Article 3 of the Law defines the subject of accreditation, i.e. the area of evaluation and compliance in which accreditation is carried out. The scope of the accreditation shall include testing, evaluation, product certification, system certification, identification of competence for other evaluation and compliance operations. The law stipulates that accreditation is voluntary, but a special law can stipulate that it is mandatory. The accreditation body of Serbia has, on a proposal, the position of an institution founded by the Republic of Serbia and subject to the provisions of the Law on Public Services. The PUPS parliamentary group sees an extremely important proposal in the law, which is an organisation of the accreditation body, the application of the principle of independence and the non-competitiveness of the accreditation body of Serbia in relation to the bodies for the assessment of compliance and which is foreseen for the accreditation body of Serbia to be organised so as to be an independent body assessing compliance. It is predicted that the accreditation body of Serbia should not provide advisory services to bodies for the assessment of compliance, that it must not perform jobs and perform services provided by bodies for the assessment of compliance, nor have ownership or management rights or other financial interests in bodies for the assessment of compliance. Articles 20 to 22 of the Law very well defines the possibility of cross-border accreditation. This is important to emphasise, as this represents a alignment with the provisions of Article 7 of the EU Regulation on requests for accreditation and market surveillance No 765/2008 of 9 July 2008. The law provides for the possibility of cross-border co-operation in the area of accreditation, i.e. the possibility of Serbia's accreditation body to direct a conformity assessment body, to submit an accreditation body to another country, unless the accreditation body of Serbia has been accredited in relation to evaluation and compliance, which requires accreditation. Data is also possible for the accreditation body of Serbia to carry out the accreditation procedure at the request of the body to assess the compliance of another country, in cases where another country has not established a national accreditation body or that body does not carry out evaluation and compliance activities required by accreditation. It is important to point out what is important that the accreditation body of Serbia can conclude with accreditation bodies of other countries and of the European, other international organisations agreements on international recognition, the equivalence of the accreditation system after completion of the college evaluation. Otherwise, in 2002, the accreditation body of Serbia became an associated member of the European accreditation cooperative, signing a memorandum of co-operation with European members. Representatives of Serbia's accreditation body are participating in the work of the General Assembly, technical committees and other groups of this cooperative. Since 17 February 2009, the accreditation body of Serbia has become an associated member in the international accreditation co-operation for the ILAC laboratory. Finally, I would point out that the law provides for a way to finance Serbia's accreditation body, the means to work are provided by charging the costs of accreditation from the Republic of Serbia's budget and other sources in accordance with the law. Serbia's accreditation body is prohibited from receiving gifts and donations from service users. The funds for membership of Serbia's accreditation body in international and European accreditation organisations are provided under the annual programme of the work of Serbia's accreditation body from the Republika Srpska budget. Now let me move on to the consumer protection law. Dear colleagues, we also have before us a proposal for a consumer protection law. The PUPS parliamentary group has given due attention to the consumer protection law and has devoted special interest to it, as pensioners are citizens who regularly settle their monthly obligations with all service providers. This law regulates the fundamental rights, means of protection, rights and conditions, the rights and obligations of the alliance, the area of which is the achievement of consumer protection objectives, the establishment of a system of out-of-court consumer dispute resolution, as well as the rights and obligations of state authorities in the area of consumer protection. The basic rights of consumers within the meaning of this law are the right to meet the basic needs, i.e. the availability of the most necessary needs and services, such as food, clothing, footwear, living space, health care, hygiene, etc. Security means protection against goods and services that are dangerous to life and health or the environment, or goods whose possession or use is prohibited. Information shall mean the availability of accurate data necessary for the reasonable selection of the offered goods, whose possession or use is prohibited. Selection: choice between multiple goods and services at acceptable prices and quality guarantees. Participation: Consumer interest in the process of adopting and implementing consumer protection policies and the possibility of consumers being represented in the process of adopting and implementing consumer protection policies through the Consumer Protection Association. Legal protection: protection of consumer rights in the legal procedure provided for in the case of infringement of his right and compensation for material and immaterial damage caused by the trader. Education: obtaining basic knowledge and skills necessary for the proper and reliable choice of products and services, as well as knowledge of basic rights and obligations of consumers and how they are achieved; in a healthier and sustainable environment, life and work in an environment that is not harmful to the health and well-being of current and future generations and the availability of accurate data necessary to assess the risks that the environment poses for the benefit of people. With a special reference to the draft of this law, the PUPS advocates maximum consumer protection, demanding that the goods on the domestic market must be of appropriate declared quality. In addition to the declared quality, there must be both health sanitary correctness and delayed payment. The PUPS parliamentary group advocates the expansion of the SOS store for pensioners and socially endangered categories of citizens and the mandatory maintenance of one day's discounts for pensioners and socially endangered citizens from 10% to 20%, and socially endangered categories of all citizens. Therefore, the mandatory regulation of all green markets according to the EU's top standards also allows for the presence of controls, and veterinary, and sanitary and inspection bodies on the markets and the mandatory separation of milk and milk products from fruits and vegetables. In particular, to define the rational supply of socially endangered citizens through multi-war retirement organisations, in particular to regulate the supply of heating and heating materials to the public, the cashew of oil, to arrange the supply and collection of these products in more wartimes, the mandatory arrangement of the electronic payment of accounts, which would allow disabled and powerless persons to pay home bills, and in the context of regulations protecting consumer rights, the users of those services. Article 5(13) defines the concept of financial services, so it is said to be banking and credit services, insurance and pension insurance services and services related to voluntary pension funds, investment and payment services. The PUPS Group requires that special legislation should be used to ensure that financial service users receive quality and true information about the business of these financial institutions whose potential users are, so that they can make a quality investment decision. What happens in practice is that banks and banking groups operating on the domestic market in case of crediting citizens provide unquality and superficial information to their potential users, who are otherwise under-informed and unprofessional, thus bringing citizens and their potential users into error. Therefore, the PUPS parliamentary group specifically requires that, in co-operation with the NBS, as the holder of monetary policy, a special regulation to protect citizens, end-users of services, so as to arrange for bank officials to provide timely and accurate information to citizens on the conditions, deadlines and method of payment of credit. Special attention should also be paid to the Consumer Credit Directive 2008/48, which clarifies consumer rights of financial services users. In accordance with the consumer protection of financial services users and their contractual obligations to the bank, as a trustee, NBS has been given the authority to prescribe the content of contract termination forms, of course, with the provision of correspondence obligations by consumers regarding the return of the amount received. In practice, certain banks often restrict the right to early payment of cash loans by imposing criminal provisions, while early payment is even disabled somewhere. Therefore, it is necessary for the consumer to recognise the right at any time, in general or in part, to settle obligations under the credit agreement, with the right to reduce the total cost of the credit. The new legal solutions pointed out that the creditor does not have the right to compensation for the early payment of the account, when that payment is made in accordance with the loan insurance plan, or where the early payment does not exceed a million dinars, as well as a time limit within which the consumer has the right to repeat the early payment of the sum that does not exceed that amount. This threshold shall be in accordance with the amount set out in Article 16(4). Consumer protection is a set of regulations and institutions designed to protect health, security of the property interests of consumers who give him legal means to defend his rights and ensure that his interests are represented by the competent authorities, in different areas covered by it. This law regulates the control of products and services for consumers. Quality implies the usefulness of the goods and the efficiency of the service, the convenience for use, regularity, security, reliability, absence of faults. Market economy laws are slow and insufficient to prevent damages that can sometimes be irreparable because, as is known, the domestic market is open to many foreign goods on which the consumer does not have the necessary information on their quality and quantity, on their health and sanitary regularity, as well as information that imports of such products, as well as their domestic market turnover, have a negative impact on the external trade deficit. On this side, attention should be paid to domestic production, in particular personal hygiene maintenance products, as well as other products that are represented in the widest consumption on the domestic market, while their production should be according to the highest EU standards, the declared quality, the declared quantity, that it has adequate sanitary and health correctness. This would ultimately lead to a better external trade balance position. Consumer information for reasons to defend itself against unfavourable goods or services; the principle is that every consumer is informed, but for that notification it takes time, and yet, despite the time invested, some details of goods and services are not possible to know. As a result, consumer information has become the duty of other traders with whom the consumer concludes the contract, consumer protection associations and public authorities. This law regulates legal standards on the contract between traders and consumers. The specificity of this contract is that the parties to the contract are unequal, because the trader is an expert, and the consumer is a citizen who does not have enough knowledge for legal norms. Contracts with the trader include special rules prescribed for the benefit of consumers, which seek to remove this inequality. The PUPS Group requires that the application of this contract be regulated by prescribing the exact form of a contract that will protect consumers, so that traders cannot deceive the consumer in terms of terms and methods of payment of the products and services that are the subject of the contract. Also, the adoption of a consumer protection law is the creation of a legal framework for consumer protection through a consumer protection institution, the improvement of consumer position in special contracts concluded with a retailer on distance sales, sales outside business premises, sales of goods, provision of services of general interest, organisation of tourist travel and strengthening consumer confidence, along with the functioning of market laws and laws of this country in general. On the basis of the Law on Confirmation of the SAA between the European Community and their Member States, on the one hand, the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No. 83/08, in Article 78, the parties pledged to co-operate to bring consumer protection standards in Serbia into line with community standards, as the applicable Consumer Protection Act does not meet several objectives. These include: an active consumer protection policy in accordance with Community law, including greater information and development of independent organisations, in harmonising consumer protection legislation in Serbia with Community law, effective legal protection of consumers in order to improve the quality of consumer goods and maintain appropriate standards of security, control of the enforcement of rules by the competent authority and facilitate access to justice in case of dispute and exchange of information on dangerous products. Article 3(4) states that the conclusion of the contract made by the consumer does not oblige the consumer to maintain the offer unless otherwise explicitly prescribed. According to the Law on Liabilities, each offer obliges the bidder to maintain a certain time, unless the offer itself makes its offer impeachable, which means that the provision on the irrevocability of the offer is dissuasive, and the bidder can, by adding the "son's bond" clause alone, without obligation to make his offer impeachable. Among other things, consumer rights, other than the basic rights laid down in Article 2 of the Law, are: the legal guarantee for the sale of goods and services for two years, and in the case of a failure in the first six months does not have to prove that it did not cause it; it may require the trader to replace or repair the goods, if the trader does not comply with its request, he shall have the right to repair or supply the goods elsewhere on the cost of the trader who is obliged to reimburse him without delay. The trader must inform him of the essential properties of the goods he purchases, how much electricity he spends, the age of life, etc. Tourist agencies are responsible for delayed flights and have the possibility of non-judicial dispute resolution. The trader cannot exclude the threatened consumer from the network, i.e. deny it a service of general interest, if it thus endangers the health or safety of the consumer and a member of his household. Before exclusion, the consumer must be informed and given a period of at least 30 days for the reconciliation of obligations. The trader can't contact him by phone, fax or e-mail unless he agreed to it in advance. The law stipulates the obligations of the trader and the fines in the event that the trader does not respect the provisions of this law and, inter alia, does not stress the price in the event that he does not fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 14 when advertising the total price, shall not issue an account to the consumer in accordance with Article 15 or shall not carry out the specification of the invoices and other criminal provisions laid down in Article 151 of the Law. Dear fellow MPs, voting this law would be a good answer to all the challenges and disadvantages of the consumer lobby that are proposed by law. This bill, proposed by our government, is a good guarantee that all consumers will protect themselves and feel completely safe from all bad experiences and talk about this topic from the past. It is clear here that the government wants to protect its population from the greed of manufacturers and bad traders. These are the right, strict measures in the law for safer status and consumer position, but are the safe protection of all citizens of Serbia. This law is the reality of the time in which we live, it will be excellent and welcomed by the citizens of Serbia if its adoption improves the work of inspection services, if those professionally and personnel are strengthened by top experts and laboratory standards as they exist in many EU countries and the world. Here, first of all, I mean the supervisory function and the monitoring of the implementation of this law. (President: Time. ) I propose to assist public health services in the professional and technological equipment of these institutions through the Ministry of Health. Finally, after laboratory inspection evidence, it is good that the burden of proof, analysis and other controls of invalid and health harmful to human use and the use of other services will be borne by the seller and the manufacturer, not by the customer as the end-user. That's why the parliamentary group will vote this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44115	The word is from Ambassador Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44116	Unfortunately, I did not come from Dr Krpić's exhaustive report, which was accredited to pensioners, and I managed to figure out what ties pensioners have with consumers, because those 5,000 who were promised did not get, but it is not a topic. Honorable citizens of Serbia, ahead of this October 5th, I only need some kind of mental experiment. I'm very curious about what it would look like to someone ten years ago who fell asleep in a deep sleep or, God forbid, fell into some kind of coma, if he woke up now and saw what not only political life looks like, but also the daily routine of most Serbian citizens. I don't think he'd stick to the constitution -- it's all the same, only he's gone, because he's far from the same, and even further from Serbia's European and world future than it was a decade ago. They say that every revolution eats its children, so it's no wonder that those who have failed democratic change or killed or survived a murder in an attempt, and first of all, people-projects, intellectually rather minor, are morally defective, but therefore extremely ambitious and pretentious figures that disgust reality and their people. If Serbia finally got a chance to become a serious and world-renowned state on October 5th, there is no "d" from the state this October, as Serbia became territory. And that territory where there is a movement ban, and only people-projects can walk around the "NATO state" in the heart of Serbia, negotiate with various world and white-world women about which text they will have to say at the premieres, and all with a declarative concern that consumers put into the centre and focus of the universe. This last sentence is no literary exaggeration, but an anthological statement by Minister of Trade and Services Slobodan Milosavljevic. So, after they've spent it all, after they've ripped it out of state territory, because they don't have any more, what Cane would say from "Partibrokers" or a left shoe to sell Dad and Mom, now they're protecting consumers. The president of Serbia, before the bill enters into a public debate, again after talking to a woman, is interesting how these women are influential in the BT case, he said – by talking to Commissioner Kunev we came to a simple argument, that when a citizen understands the nature of his account and his relationship with the one who has made the bill knows what he pays and how to protect his interest and when the state helps him, he is protected and secure in the society he lives in. Extraordinary, but the question of most citizens is not included in what the president said, and that question is – how should we protect ourselves from this state and from this government? Furthermore, it seems that most citizens are unable to figure out what kind of account she's made, what and why she should pay the person who put the bill out, because on behalf of the same majority of the citizens someone else has negotiated. If we paid off part of the bill to the Srebrenica Crime Conviction Declaration, forgetting Tito's honorable pioneering word for his successors that a declaration was about to be convicted of crimes on the territory of the former SFRY, including a crime against the Serbs, what else is expected of us? If the consumer has acted by bringing the Statute of the Vojvodina, does it mean that we are only a little bit more in business with Raška, so that we can make a few more European regions, and then to question whether there will be life before death we can get a confirmed answer? This is how it looks that the Ministry of Trade and Services is actually part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and with a mantra that Europe has no alternative we are constantly based on trade and services, but unfortunately not for the benefit of our citizens, but for the serious creators of all these people-programs that are current in power. So much consumer protection law is nothing more than a law on the protection of politicians who are currently in power. While one in charge of science and rapid signing of European agreements plans for Serbia to crack 20m euros for a science promotion centre, instead of providing scientists with basic means to work, another, even more creative, known as the Baron Minhausen Serbian politics and the trigger of each government, writes texts for a heavy metal band with the symbolic term "Death Tester". Since they both played beautifully in a monetary coup in the hope that they wouldn't play their own, the younger one protects consumers by singing, "The further away from this hell, the more I must run away from it, to be proud and myself, to break everything in front of me, never to have you again." Mother dear, besides friends like this, our people really don't need enemies. To return to Minister Milosavljevic, who in the cantonic manner explains that the new consumer protection law puts the focus and centre of the universe. For those slightly less philosophical, I don't see Mr Milenic, he does not belong, the minister explains that the new law will end the monopoly of traders' behaviour towards customers, but also towards manufacturers. The question for Mr. Milosavljevic is what does Misko say, because it would be wrong to point out that this is another law on the protection of Miskovic from consumers? What one citizen said in his comment on the site B92, consumer protection law, we certainly need such a law, but this is Serbia where laws are applied very selectively or not even applied if someone important thinks they are no good. What guarantees that even with this law there will be nothing different from the others? If Mouse and society are going to be above this law, as are so many others, and they will, the free paint and the whole story comes down to just another demagogue of the naive who, fortunately, is getting less and less. Consumer protection organisations are skeptical because memory serves them well, and they know that they received a similar promise years earlier. As Petar Bogosavljevic of the Consumers' Association of Belgrade said, it is especially up to how much we will implement these and other laws. For more than a decade, we want to implement a legislation relating to consumer protection, but we also have a more consistent resistance to applying these legal solutions. After all, you can return the goods to the seller today, of course, if you haven't downloaded the declaration, because there's little order for correction in the store, so to speak. "no" form that serves that purpose. Any buyer who has an intact product and a fiscal account has the right to return the same, and for the amount of over 500 dinars the signature and ID card are necessary. Merchants know this, the state also, but consumers remain uninformed about their rights, with the "no" form introduced when the fiscal cash register is in place. Again, here is a comment from another high-priced citizen who says – the cheapest demagogy is the populism of political forces that estimate that they no longer stand so well with voters. Under the new law, the buyer will be able to return the purchased item to the store within 15 days without any reason and get the money back. That sounds great, so it's in the developed world, but Serbia is not a developed world, so law enforcement will turn into that dad's sons buy the newest mobile phones by showing them to their friends for 14 days, then take them to the store on 15 days, ask for some other model or refund money. What is the standard in Europe cannot become overnight a decree of standards in Serbia, and in the end, one to two more serious merchants can go from a scarce market to one to two, and we buy a bunch of things at significantly higher prices, both in markets and in apartments, as in the 1990s. What is really necessary for consumers in Serbia is competition between sellers and effective protection by inspections, and the new law will not achieve either one, and especially not the first. But it doesn't matter what happens in a year or two, give something that's gonna make heaven look like a very good thing, get a percentage or two in the election. It says one of our citizens. What's even more interesting is where the consumer credit directive went. At the request of the National Bank of Serbia in the Draft Consumer Protection Act, the Consumer Credit Directive was withdrawn, i.e. financial services. A very important issue for consumers around the world, not only in Serbia, is precisely the material position of consumers who were conditioned at the time of the economic crisis precisely by loans that consumers were forced to raise to buy or, as with us, survive. At numerous seminars organised by EU representatives in Belgrade to convey experience in their work, as well as legal solutions for certain areas, were financial services, i.e. consumer credits. In this regard, the Centre of Consumers of Serbia asks the competent ministry to return the directive to the draft law by consumer loans, since Serbia has no consumer credit law, nor regulations governing consumer rights in relation to banks and financial institutions. Consumers have the right not to allow banks to change the provisions of the contract voluntarily, especially interest, but that any change must be agreed with them, as recently announced by the authors of the new law. The NBS initiative to exclude from the consumer protection bill the part that regulates financial services, more specifically consumer loans, has caused, normally, a heated public reaction. The NBS explained it was due to the specificity of the financial market, so these issues should be regulated by a special law, and the final decision should be made soon in agreement with the Trade Ministry. The regulation of financial services should remain part of the consumer protection law until the NBS has finally passed a special law, which has been spoken of for five years. No one would be angry if, in the transitional period, the consumer protection law regulates consumer loans. This way, consumers are left to call the NBS and complain. So banks definitely shouldn't be allowed the opportunity to discreetly decide to increase interest rates, just to reduce them. Investments are a minor problem, because it is mostly clear to citizens what they are, but their credit conditions must be clearly indicated in the contract, not in footnotes that uninformed citizens often do not read. In other words, no point of robbery. Since the great economic crisis of the last 20 years in the U.S., the term bankers, created from the words of bankers and gangsters, which mark financial mechanics and predators who capture their victims by system of offers that are too good to be true. Banksters have often shown themselves far more dangerous than classical robbers because their abductions were carried out through various financial speculations, law holes and with the support of the state, and the ongoing financial crisis has shown that banking practices in the United States are still alive, as it turns out that many bankers are employed in the US financial services sector, with the help of the state, continue to be enormously wealthy, while their clients are constantly poor. Robbery and yelling clients are not Serbian inventions. Although domestic bankers are landing us from all sides of the offer of easy cash and easy life with credit cards and loans of all kinds, only on the counter and in small letters in contracts can we find out somewhat what lies behind these mounted smiles of advertising actors and bank employees. Credit and credit card interest in Serbia is convincingly higher than in most countries of Europe, while clients are not protected from changes in the contract, which gives banks the opportunity to change the wars and terms of credit payments on their own, so that the famous advertising slogan "you go in and out, almost" we can paraphrasise with "you come in - you come out, you're done". This area was to be regulated by the Consumer Protection Bill, which included an EU directive that regulates the area of financial services and consumer credits, eliminating the possibility of a simple change in contractual obligations. However, this consumer protection law provided for when and under what conditions the bank can change interest, and that the client has the right to give up credit after 15 days if he changes his mind. However, this provision was withdrawn from the draft law at the request of the NBS. According to the explanation, we have already said, the area of consumer credit should be regulated by a special law, whose production will begin just after the adoption of consumer protection laws, so that citizens will be practically exposed to the dangers that banks will unilaterally change both the terms of the contract and the level of interest, i.e. they will be left at the mercy of banks. Serbia thus remains the only country in the region that has no regulation to protect citizens' rights in debt with banks, although complaints about the bank's work are increasing, even acknowledging the new governor of the NBS Dejan Soskic. In his words, the current situation is such that there are plenty of reasons to worry because NBS is constantly getting information from citizens about banks that can be subdued under the category of unfair business, euphemistically, but we know what the governor was talking about. The rules of business of banks with citizens are prescribed by the NBS decision on general terms of business of banks with clients, natural persons. The decision, among other things, prescribed that the bank could change the elements of the contract if it agreed with the client through the annex of the contract. Many citizens, who are often forced to borrow credit for different reasons, must give their consent in order to obtain money at all, followed by a period of suspense and unpleasant surprises, while in case they feel that justice is damaged they can seek only in a long and expensive trial. This problem would certainly address the provision on the protection of credit users, but its rejection once again showed that the state does not actually protect its citizens, and that Serbia remains a polygon for the smooth wealth of foreign and domestic bankers, especially bankers. In such a situation, the best thing would be, if possible, never to take any credit, never to use payment cards and a allowed minus, because whoever enters Serbia a round of credits and cards really pays at least double until they come out of it. Citizens who use banking services remain unprotected, but this is neither the first nor the last time. Goran Papovic, president of the national consumer organisation, said -- only naive can they believe a special regulation will be made. I think it's the pressure of a part of the bank that they can't work in their country by the system they apply in Serbia, that they make up one-sided contracts, that they calculate interest that they can't apply anywhere, change it whenever they want. It is obvious that they are not only naive citizens, but also the newly elected Governor Dejan Soskic, who thought he would be able to get involved in his business, so he said – from the citizens we are constantly getting information about banks that can be subdued under the category of unfair business. The current situation is that there are many reasons to worry and wherever it is possible to remove the situation through our intervention we will do so. We have not noticed this intervention, and so far we remain the only country in the region that has no regulation to protect the right of citizens who are in charge of banks. There is one member in the old consumer protection regulation concerning bank services, but it is not clearly defined, so it has not been possible to apply it so much. A new consumer protection law provides when and under what conditions the bank can change interest, and that the client has the right to give up credit after 15 days if it changes its mind. Also, if the bank is found to have committed an offence, it can be punished, but if citizens themselves sue the bank, the case will last from three to five years and no one can guarantee that they will be tried under consumer protection laws, but only on the basis of a law on bond relations that has a hundred interpretations. The National Bank of Serbia has never once named the banks the citizens are complaining about. In its report, it is only the number of banks that were subject to the objections, so that citizens simply do not know which banks, or which counters to avoid. In BiH, the three banks were fined last year under consumer protection laws because they unfoundedly raised interest on consumer loans, and in Hungary, the central bank banned the withdrawal of interest rates on approved loans. The banks that violated these provisions are dragonishly punished. So if we really want to pass a consumer protection law, which is not synonym with the law on protection of politicians in power, we have to put into consideration and arguments of citizens of Serbia who think better, far more extensive and quality than people who are on someone's payroll, so they are afraid not to pass as "milk", because in "Maxie", the first on the list of banned products is precisely "milk" chocolate, Mr Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44117	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44118	My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, at first I want to protest sharply for the merger of these two agendas and the extension of work after six hours. From what someone wants to discuss this terribly important law that affects all citizens of Serbia, not only the full-aged but also the minors, because we are all consumers, we are talking in these circumstances, without direct transmission, with a recording going beyond midnight, there are some intentions that this will go undetected. Why would this be so if this was a European law that had been in public debate for a year, it had been supported, why did the Government not boast of this law? Obviously, I'll only talk to Mr. Milosavic Tomice about this law, this accreditation is a collateral benefit for you, I doubt most colleagues will address you. Why would anyone want to hide this? Because he obviously knows that the arguments of us who will dispute this law are stronger than the arguments of those who will defend the law, Mr. Milosavljevic. You say consumer protection is a constitutional category. That's right. The Republic of Serbia protects consumers. This is said in Article 90, especially prohibited actions aimed at health, safety and consumer privacy, as well as any dishonest market activities. Based on this member and others, we have challenged some provisions of the energy agreement with Russia. Among other things, the one who says that until the refinery is reconstructed will be subject to these rules that poison citizens. The court said it is not valid if it is interstate agreements. So, abroad, when we close something, the Constitution doesn't apply, we can poison citizens and not protect consumers. That's what this law looks like to me, even though it has nothing to do with abroad, a law that essentially does not protect consumers. You remember two months ago, this summer, we were discussing the Trade Act. We then warned you that this hidden provision that gives you the right to continue to control and protect monopolies and prevent competition in the trading sector through that Trade Development Centre, which is the body of the ministry, will have a bad impact on consumers and in this law that should have come, because the Law on Trade and Consumer Protection is in some way like a hand and a glove. If it's a tight one, a glove, it'll be a bad hand. We have two fundamental remarks here. First, what was the colleague talking about, which is a lack of consumer credit. You said on the board today that the NB insisted on it and that it would regulate that area since the new year. We don't care about that. We believe they will, but in all normal countries this is regulated by this law. Secondly, the argument that there are intermediaries, so the bank wants to issue licences to those intermediaries who provide these services doesn't stand, because NB can and if this was regulated by this law to deal with this business. On the other hand, consumer loans are not just about the consumer loans provided by banks. These are the loans given by trading organisations. When you pay some goods with three or six checks, it's also a consumer loan. It's absolutely an unregulated area, and I can only assume, to speculate, that it's in the interest of banks that don't want anyone involved in this area. This bill, because apparently profits are good. A lot hasn't been regulated, out of interest, out of contract before the time, and so on... We believe that if we build a European society, if tomorrow big trade chains, and hopefully it won't be this one alone, so it owns from Cyprus, Belgrade or Belgium, unimportantly, issue cards, lend credits, trade chains, traders and not banks, that all of this must be found in this law, because there is no one else. It doesn't overlap with NB's powers unless it wants to keep the monopoly on so far high interest rates for the big profits that banks make here. I am saying that this law because there is no part of consumer loans absolutely does not protect consumers. Pro forms are satisfied with some European provisions, but this one is not. The second major complaint by the LDP is the dwindled service of general economic interest. They're mentioned in the law, though. About a few of them are defined in one article, services of general economic interest are services whose quality, conditions of supply, or price determined or controlled by a state body, etc., and then a barrier is opened, as though we consumers have an idea of what it is, electronic communications, electricity and gas supply, municipal activity and the like. Nowhere in the law, or in several places is scattered, and not systematically, and it is not on the surface determined what are the obligations of those traders and dealers who deliver these services. We believe that there should be a clear definition of the rules, because they are those who provide these services in the majority or monopolies or are public enterprises and are certainly not exposed to competition. Because they are not exposed to competition, they behave arrogantly, they act rudely, they also use the fact that skin is used by people. That is why we think that they must be subject to different rules, as are the case in other consumer protection laws, as they exist in the European directives. We believe that each of these services of general economic interest should be clearly defined and we will propose through amendments 12 services. If they don't accept it, Mr. Milosavljevic, these are what we propose, monopolies and public enterprises will continue their behaviour. I mean, "Serbigas," these days we're aware of his behavior, he's going to collect gas even though over the year, a lot of money has been spent by that company on whatever side activities that have nothing to do with gas, and remember how much money we've guaranteed here to cover previous losses, EPS, JAT, NIS. They are all companies that provide these services, but in fact they have no obligation whatsoever than those that are really exposed to competition, such as trade chains and small shops. So these are two basic objections. Let the NB go. This is supposed to be here. I don't know who you've had this public debate with, when consumer associations think and demand that consumer loans be regulated by this law and these monopolies, or what costs the citizens the most and what they generally have to pay, because whether they buy milk chocolate in Delta or elsewhere or whether they'll buy chocolate at the end of the election. The gas and the power aren't. That's why we think these are the two great shortcomings of this law. We'd like him to be better. This time, Mr. Milosavljevic, it will depend on you whether it will be better, whether you will accept the amendments of us and the other opposition colleagues. In any case, as this law is discussed in small hours without transmission, it does not promise much to consumers. I don't want to go into other elements of this law, there's more to it, but these are two basic remarks, and we think that if you want it to remain at least a little bit of something called the pro-European government, then it would be time to start acting really pro-European, because this, as well as the previous law, as well as a few laws before that, shows that you only care about the form of these European businesses, and the essence slips away. As long as the form is important, and the essence is secondary or while there are no other interests that may not be visible to the citizens here, this country will go one step forward, two steps back to Europe. Unfortunately, we don't like it for one reason only, we know that in principle you can't do better, but we don't like it because this kind of behavior compromises the European idea in Serbia. We think it's absolutely great damage and that burden of responsibility you'll bear.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44119	National MP Zoran Bortic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44120	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, respected ministers and representatives of the ministries, esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the law on accreditation, whose proposal we received for today's debate, is based on Article 97(6). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines the regulation and security of the single market, the legal position of economic operators on the market, as well as the system of carrying out certain business and other activities. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision on the establishment of the accreditation body of Serbia to bring this matter into line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The establishment of this body was carried out in accordance with the generally accepted principles that bind this area to EU countries. This body manages the accreditation system in Serbia and represents the top of the quality infrastructure system. One of the previous conditions for the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the EU is the full membership of Serbia's accreditation body in the European Accreditation Co-operation and its accession to multilateral agreements on mutual recognition. This creates a single market without technical barriers to trade. After the end of the existence of the state union and the need to meet the requirements for membership in the World Trade Organisation and the EU, our country is being forced into these organisations as an independent and sovereign state to pass this accreditation law. This legislation will align the area of accreditation with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and improve the role of accreditation in the modernisation of technical legislation. Consistent with the rules of the Agreement on Technical Barriers in Trade will be ensured and conditions will be created for the gradual alignment of the area of accreditation with the relevant EU legislation. The new legal solutions also specify cross-border accreditation and collegiate assessment procedures by the accreditation bodies of other countries, as well as supervision of the work of the body for the assessment of compliance carried out by the competent department of accreditation affairs. The law will also allow for the continuation of accreditation operations in the Republic of Serbia in line with international standards in this area. The law regulates the membership of Serbia's accreditation body into international accreditation organisations, as well as information in the field of accreditation, the keeping of a register of accreditation bodies and the availability of these registers to the public. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in addition to the law on accreditation, whose proposal we are discussing in today's session of the National Assembly, I believe that the proposal for a consumer protection law is also one of the most significant normative acts which, in a better way and in accordance with modern democratic standards, will protect the rights of our citizens. A society in transition that Serbian society is going through very complex processes of adapting to market laws. The market in all areas of development regulates supply and demand for different goods and services. In poor and technologically lagging societies that open their markets, it is common to try to place both goods and services of suspicious quality, all with one goal, to make a profit at the expense of that quality, quickly. In such abuses of the market and its immeasurable legality, the highest price is always paid by consumers, therefore, by all citizens. The societies of modern and developed economies, such as the economies of EU countries, have for decades been establishing for their legislation very high and demanding quality standards that every participant must meet if it wants to appear on these markets and to place its goods and services on them. These standards cover all forms of the needs of citizens, from food to financial transactions and services, and it is difficult to imagine a massive phenomenon that these societies violate established standards. In other words, it is unimaginable to sell meat products in one of the EU countries that have expired, that traders are adorning labels on the date of manufacture, that tourists are being cheated by tourist agencies or that a bank subsequently changes the terms of the contract with clients. Developed markets have provided their citizens with a high level of quality of life for the same or less money than consumers in transition societies pay and receive products and services of an unmatched low quality. In order to prevent this from happening and to allow Serbia as a state to allow its citizens European standards in the use of goods and services on their market, a system of regulations that will be regulated by this area is necessary. We need, therefore, to standardize legal and other regulations the conditions under which every participant in our market will have to appear if he wants to sell his goods or place a service in Serbia. In this respect, the consumer protection law constitutes a legal name for a set of regulations and institutions intended to protect the health, safety and property interests of consumers. This law provides legal means to defend consumer rights and provides for consumer interests to be represented by competent authorities. The concept of consumer protection covers different standards. One group regulates the control of products and services intended for consumers, the consumer expects the goods and services it benefits to have a certain quality. Quality implies the usefulness of the goods and the efficiency of the service, the convenience for use, regularity, security, reliability and absence of faults. The control of goods and services is, in fact, control of their quality, but that control must not oppose market laws and therefore relate to quality and prices leave the functioning of the market. Because if products or services of poor quality are on the market, the competition that offers the consumer an alternative works. The only exception is safety, because a lack of security harms the consumer. Therefore, consumer protection in the area of product and service control only covers safety-related standards which regulate the prevention of consumer damage. These standards have public, legal and criminal sanctions and are contained in the General Product Safety Act. The second group of standards regulates consumer notification. The consumer needs reliable information on goods and services because it is best defended from their use. Starting with the principle that everyone is obliged to inform himself, the consumer should come up with information on whether certain goods or services meet its needs with their own quality. However, it is very difficult for the consumer to obtain such information because it needs to waste a lot of time, and some significant details about goods or services have often been denied. As a result, consumer information remains the obligation of other traders with whom the consumer concludes a contract, a consumer protection association and authorities. Consumer protection in the field of information covers standards, which impose this duty on others. Legal standards governing consumer notification will be regulated by this law. The third group of legal standards regulates the contract between traders and consumers. On the basis of the contract with the consumer trader, it supplies the products and services it needs. The specificity of this contract is the fact that it is concluded by two unequal sides. The trader is a commercial entity, which concludes the contract in the performance of its business activity in order to obtain profits. He is an expert in his work, available for information and considerable financial capital. The consumer is unprofessional, is a regular individual, concludes a contract in an area where there is insufficient knowledge and has no information from the trader. The trader is stronger and the consumer is weaker. As a result, there is a natural imbalance in the contract between them. Therefore, consumer protection in the contract with the trader included special rules prescribed for the benefit of consumers who are being eliminated from this inequality. The reason for the adoption of consumer protection laws is, above all, the provision of comprehensive consumer protection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Every citizen is daily in the role of consumers, so the purpose of the law is to guarantee protection to the country's largest circle of citizens. The law seeks to improve consumer protection by hiring all operators on the market, especially traders, with whom consumers are in daily communication. Merchants have the opportunity to influence the rational behaviour of consumers on the market by providing, in accordance with the law and fair trade practice, the necessary information on the products they offer. Reasons for the adoption of a new Consumer Protection Act can be seen as creating a legal framework for consumer protection, creating a consumer protection institution, improving consumer position in special contracts concluded with the trader, strengthening consumer confidence in the functioning of market laws. In addition to these reasons, it should in particular be pointed out that the Republic of Serbia, by means of the Law on Confirmation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, has assumed the obligation to bring the standards of consumer protection in Serbia into line with European standards. In addition, effective consumer protection is necessary to ensure the quality functioning of the market economy. Consumer protection will also depend on the development of administrative infrastructure, which will oversee the market and implement the law in this area. The ultimate objective of this law is to enable the consumer to make the best choice in business and market transactions and rules establishing this law will provide adequate assistance and protection. It should be pointed out that the 2005 Consumer Protection Act has proved insufficient to eliminate any dangers that the consumer faces in practice when concluding a contract with the trader. That is why the need to protect consumers is imposed more comprehensively, norms and again regulates the new law. With all this in mind and starting with the fact that the legal area of consumer protection is one of the priorities for the SAA, the need for this law to be adopted by an urgent procedure has been imposed. This team will provide conditions for comprehensive protection of consumer rights and interests and create an institutional framework for strengthening and building capacity for the government and NGOs in this area. These sectors will thus be trained to lead such an active consumer protection policy in line with national interests and EU standards in this area. Dear fellow MPs, in voting day, the SPS-JS parliamentary club will vote for both laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44121	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44122	Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, I would like to join my colleague Zoran Ostojić and to object to what we started working today on a third very important law. We haven't had sessions in two months, of course, there are some other activities that MPs have. I think maybe we could have done it before, and if nothing, then it was necessary to give the proper meaning in the debate that this law requires. It's a different quality, and it must be a better discussion when it's working in some normal time, and not us, here, we're already discussing the third law, and we started the debate after 1800 hours. As I recall, the accreditation law has been in the assembly procedure for maybe a year now, and this one about consumers is almost a month. Today I will talk mainly about consumer protection laws. One of my colleagues from the MPs' club is going to talk about the proposal for a law on accreditation. I don't have time for both laws, and I'm not professional enough. Not all of them are Dr. Krpić, he did it today, and he spoke very quickly, so he came all the way. The bill on consumer protection has already been called the law on the protection of banks. In the discussion, I will explain why I agree with that name, because this is really a law on which it has been done for a long time, and we could read in the media that about two million euros have been spent from European public debate funds, that it lasted three years, that there have been many workshops. It's all costing. After such efforts and costs, this bill could indeed have been better, i.e. some of the most important chapters agreed on in the draft itself, and then it was left out overnight from this bill. Someone here has already said a definition of what consumer protection is, that this is a legal name for a set of regulations and institutions designed to protect the health, safety and property interests of consumers. It seems that this third part of this definition, the property interests of consumers, did not seem to have enough in mind when he sent us this bill. This law, some have already said, absolutely concerns every citizen of Serbia, because every citizen is daily in the role of consumers and I am so sorry that citizens cannot even hear in the direct transmission of this debate today. What is the current situation when it comes to the legal regulations of consumer protection. The 2005 law is in force, which is a valid Consumer Protection Act, and when it was adopted, it was also modern, applicable, etc., so we saw in practice that it is not so applicable and that there are many shortcomings. As soon as he decided on the new law, not any changes and additions, that is certain. There was simply a lot of inadequacy and some of the directives that should have been included in the new one, i.e. in this bill. Then, the Law on Advertising again concerns these areas of consumer protection, then the Law on the Protection of Competition, the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Law on Bond Relations and some other laws. So this matter is currently arranged, so it will remain, as far as other laws are concerned, through many laws. But what you left out wasn't done properly by any other law. You even say in your explanation for this law that you are aware of the lack of a valid law and that this bill will remove any dangers that appear in practice to the consumer when closing a contract with the trader. You are aware and all citizens are aware that in fact the biggest problems and arise from loans and consumer loans in this broad sense under this European directive, and yet you did not find it appropriate for that head to be found in this bill. For example, to illustrate, that you have solved some other things that do not touch so many citizens absolutely well. I will give an example, this is Chapter 10, where consumer protection is discussed among other things in the exercise of the right to travel travel contracts. That's good, because there's a lot of problems here already, but you say – and a time-sharing use of immovableity. It's a great translation, but I had to imagine what it was. I remembered it was time-sharing. It's very little represented in Serbia. I hope it will develop because it is a quality form of vacation and is certainly more accessible than classic tourist trips. However, you have regulated this area, for which 99% of Serbian citizens do not know what it is, but I say they use or make contracts on time-sharing use of immovableity, and yet you have not found it appropriate, I keep going back to what really affects many citizens to regulate. You were in the course of public debate, ministers, not just you, but people from the Ministry and people from different associations and associations of consumers, when they were satisfied with the draft, saying that consumers would have the same level of protection as consumers in the EU. So it was a hoax. It was the deception and actions of the people who worked on this bill, not to say that this is the deception of every citizen of Serbia because every citizen of Serbia is a consumer. It is true, we have European prices, we have our unemployment, the most unemployed citizens, that is, receiving citizens, although I find it hard to believe, but it is so that citizens in Serbia are the lowest in the region or in the Western Balkans, so that these are the delusions that citizens face in many places, and this is that they will live and that consumers will be protected rights as in the EU, it is not true, and it could be, that you have not left out that part. So, during this public debate and in many workshops, which we learned was very expensive, the representatives of the ministry, and the representatives of the NBS, and representatives of the Consumers' Association worked, and there you agreed to apply the European Directive 2008/48, which has just regulated this area. According to the directive, consumer credit has a far wider meaning of bank credit. In our practice, consumer credit is a synonym for dedicated non-profit fixed-term loans, which is only one emerging form of consumer credit. In fact, in this new law, you should have accepted the economic concept of a consumer loan and that is the definition in Directive 2008, that a contract approved or obliged by the lender to grant the consumer a loan in the form of a delayed payment, loan or other financial loss. So it's a much broader concept than how we understand what consumer credit is. For example, which newspaper was supposed to contain this law, and it wasn't, but were left out? I'll just count it, more for the citizens, if they ever watch this transmission. The paper would be, for example, to introduce a deadline for withdrawal, i.e. a unilateral termination of the contract in favour of the consumer within 14 days, without compulsory compensation. It was a newspaper he didn't have. The obligation of the creditor to give the consumer advice on whether the requested credit meets its needs and assets is foreseen. Someone here today talked about how consumers sign contracts, in those contracts, of course, all the information is contained, but you have some smaller font that man doesn't pay attention to. So this could also be considered a fraud, because if the borrower is not informed of all things, then he is on fraud and took, of course, if the problem arises. There is no such thing in this proposal now, that counselling is being introduced as a commitment to the lender. For example, today, banks in Serbia are limiting the right to early payment of cash loans and imposing penalty costs. It is therefore important to recognise the consumer's right to settle obligations under the loan agreement at any time, in general and in part. It's, when you think about it in layman's terms, amazingly, but it's like, if someone decides to pay off at once, or one big part of the credit, it's impossible, because even if they decide to, then they're going to have to pay some fine points. So this law was supposed to solve these absurd situations. By abandoning the consumer credit chapter, banks will still be able to change the terms of the contract unilaterally, as they do today, and will be able to change interest rates without agreeing in advance with the user, i.e. the consumer, so they will remain the same. The banks will be able to do what they do now, and what they do in the states where their seats are, or where they're from, they can't work. So the OTP Bank can't behave like this in Hungary. Credit agricol can't behave like that in France, but it looks like it can. It's bad again that you've had a chance to settle this in this law. I know that you on the Trade Committee have told you from the NBS that the area of consumer credit will be regulated by some special law and I think you set a deadline somewhere up to the new year. What was the problem with these provisions being found in this law? What, would it be too crazy? The DSS has filed about 40 amendments to this bill. We, in fact, through 23 amendments give you an opportunity to correct this mistake. Through the amendments, we tried to get the head back to talk about consumer loans. I think there's 23 members left out. So we have made the amendment available to you that, if you accept them, you can return that whole head to the bill. It is your decision now, but you have the opportunity to accept these amendments and will return to the whole chapter, consumer loan contracts and show that you really care about consumers and that consumers are the center of the universe. What could be heard these days, as remarks from organisations and associations on consumer protection, is that the Ministry is trying to make certain associations and associations of consumer protection, they also burden you to protect traders in this way and that you want to control them all. Nowhere in the world is the country, the ministry, the government controls the consumer protection association that way. I will quote the NOPS or the National Consumer Organisation of Serbia, they say well that you have set up a Consumer Protection Centre, at the Ministry of Trade and that it is nothing but a state agency, that citizens make complaints, that they do not receive adequate assistance and answers, that even these complaints are not recorded. They also place a burden on you and a competition for regional consumer counselling centres, which would practically play a role in supporting this Consumer Protection Centre. In the bill of law, we have amendments, even in that section where you say which organizations the Ministry will keep track of. You know, according to the Association Act, three people are enough to form an association. You are there to keep records of an association that has at least 50. That number doesn't mean anything. You can have five high-quality, trained, professional people, who will do a lot more than 50 of those who are not so well qualified. You promised that it would mean a lot to protect consumers in Serbia. I don't know why you succumbed to the pressure at the last minute and left out one of the most important parts. But you have a chance to accept amendments from the DSS, to return that chapter, and if you do, the DSS will support this bill, otherwise we can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44123	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44124	In the language of a newspaper reporter, we could say that in front of 25 MPs a total of seven representatives of the government, three of whom are ministers, we are talking about two long-awaited, two years prepared and extremely important laws. I ask a question, and where do more important things happen? This home is obviously not a place where important topics are discussed, even if I cannot say the presence of the government, according to the ingenuity of the government and the congregation leadership, to discuss these two topics at 17.55 p.m. To ask another question to all of us here, and who we can protect by some law against dishonesty, bribery or fraud, if we ourselves are daily exposed to petty bribery and fraud to catch us as students unprepared or unprepared to present to the people a law that is on the agenda. How can we save someone from cheating if they've cheated on us so they've planted Article 23 on us? A Rules of Procedure where proportionality is annulled by the majority legally defined? Not at all. How can we explain the paradox or absurd that we can protect the consumer if we are the most important head of 10a, so we baptized her in amendments, consumer protection, those who use consumer credit, agreed, not us, you as Government and the Proposer, that the National Bank regulates it in a different way and later because it is in her jurisdiction and I will, don't blame me, it's very funny, to explain this to you by the story of one of my fellow engineers who works with me. He says so - I decided to buy my wife a coat and let someone just tell me that I'm not a broad and a real gentleman, but until I get the money to buy her a coat she has to go to the sweater, even if it's minus 32 outside. It is an illustration of the protection of the law and the protection of consumers that we regulate by this law. It's not my goal to be funny here, the goal is to ask the Assembly's leadership if this book, which says it's true for all of us when we write the laws, was in force for the promoter who came out with this law. I claim that it is not valid and I am talking about both laws, I am talking about the accreditation law, which I will only mention in principle because of the name, I am talking about the consumer protection law. In these methodological rules, Article 33 states that anyone who proposes the law and the Constitution has been authorised to use the Serbian language and words that exist in the Serbian language for the terminology provided for and used by law. Starting with the term "accreditation", which is more appropriate here and is already accepted in the accreditation of higher education institutions, which is not a word that cannot be properly translated and we have suggested that it be called the Quality Control Act of Products and Services. Are we making a new Esperanto by accepting all the foreign words, wanting to make an impression, wanting to be general or wanting to be just incomprehensible, so if we have terms of certification, accreditation, competence, I ask you, could this accreditation be called a quality check or a quality recognition, which can be used for higher education institutions? Do we really have to use the word competence if we have good Serbian words – knowledge, skills, abilities? Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I think the services had to return this law because it was not prepared in the spirit of a new regulation that we called the Unique Methodological Rules for Law Writing. The parliamentary group to which I belong, Forward Serbia-SNS, and in technical and content terms, have adhered, submitting amendments to the laws that are in the procedure and I really don't see what we learn while we live, and I won't use English for that, we have to forget our original language so that those to whom these laws apply are as incomprehensible. And yet, although you, Mr. Milosavljevic, are someone who, on behalf of the Government, represents this law, I must admit that even if there is an ad board in medical institutions or paper stuck to it, it doesn't matter how it is printed, which points to the consumers of the medical species, patients or those who follow the patients that there is a place, let the office with the number of teams and team and some person where they can complain if they are not provided with a quality service. Now we're not talking about corruption and everything that isn't the subject of this law, but there's a place and a reference where the damaged can go and complain. What do we have, Mr. Milosavlevich, in the shops? A book of impressions. I'm someone who lives a normal life, a consumer, and I've just chosen to talk about this law from a consumer perspective. We have an impression book, and when you say "impression," you usually expect a pleasant impression. Most often, only one who really has a good impression of the purchase he's found. These books are half-empty, and books that weren't supposed to be research material for someone who deals with sociological research but the subject of the law waits two years and we don't get an adequate law yet. The theory also says the owner of Volmart, one of the largest trade chains, is that the only real employer who hires and fires workers in a large company is the customer, i.e. the consumer. Terminological, consumer and consumer, one who buys doesn't have to and spend, but let's just say it's the same. Do we respect the laws of the consumer, or do we respect the consumer? Yes, we respect it in a way that we created a consumer who we don't give peace to as he watches the movie, because we cut it off by commercials and by offering different kinds of goods and offering the goods he needs and doesn't need, creating a need for it. We don't let him sleep quietly this afternoon, 'cause everyone can ring his doorbell and offer him stuff. We don't give the consumer the right to choose even a viewing channel, and I'm telling you that every cable TV, every one of us, didn't want to, has to have this cable TV, has at least three channels on which the supply of goods that you know of is secure quality and protection in the purchase of such goods. So, you created a consumer, you created modern churches where we pray on Saturdays and Sundays, not visiting, not visiting relatives, not teaching children, not taking them to nature, but taking them and meeting people in trade chains. The cult of consumers, a cult of post-modern lifestyle on credit, has become overwhelming, apart from the cult of success immediately and at all costs. We're building this consistently combining all the laws we've been making here, but we've been waiting two years for consumer protection, and when that law comes into the process, I'm going to put only two basic remarks or questions to you. Mr. Milosavljevic, is it in this law, because there are current milk shortages and because the current beautifulness of that sticker that a foreigner in Belgrade was allowed to notice, because all of this would have been interpreted differently in this, let me say, sensitive circumstances, again in one foreign trade chain. So question number one – does the current practice of the milk processor oblige to indicate whether the milk that is packaged from fresh milk or from milk powder or are we misleading the buyer, not citing the declaration on the very packaging of milk? Besides, we're blackmailing manufacturers at a ransom price. For me, this is the essence of consumer protection laws. I have a question number two - the current practice of individual processors to buy frozen meat half-meat at the world market and process it into dried meat products, without stating it in the declaration and thus lead consumers astray again, and the livestock producers are blackmailing them with a ransom price. It didn't happen overnight, and I didn't ask you for an order and credit, Mr. Milosavlić, to defend, among others called, that it wasn't your fault that there wasn't enough milk on the market and that there wasn't enough meat or there wasn't enough in the range that was needed and sufficient quality that was controlled, but it was the result of the trade policies that took place ten years back, customs policies, protection, full liberalisation, wrong privatisation that was their goal. But will this problem ever be resolved by looking at the problem by replacing the causes and consequences? No, I don't think so. So does this law solve that we can buy goods, so we don't need glasses to see if the label is beautiful, if there's enough data, I'm talking about healthy people, patients have to take care of the content of each product, the amount of protein, not where they are children's products, but in completely regular products? I really think the questions I ask you are questions from consumers, customers who are the center of the world or the universe or the universe only in the story. In reality, the customer is only the one who is interesting with chains that come here and open their sales facilities, such as consumer power, i.e. a paying customer to buy goods that are hard to pass in some other markets. Some people, my friends who finished colleges and very interesting and quality schools, were eventually forced to work on markets in Novi Sad, Belgrade and anywhere, learned ten years ago how chocolate is recognised for the eastern, Western market or for the Balkans. I have a chance to notice the difference in the quality of cosmetic products, for example. What our president says is, I'm not a luxury man, but I am at comfort, and I'm not hiding it, I want to stay a lady, like Mrs. President. I notice a difference in the quality of cosmetic products somewhere out there and here. Whether it was meant to shut down and privatise those houses that we trusted, where it couldn't be easily bought, that it was a product of non-toxic paint, that it was made of skin, that it was made of pure cotton or not of synthetics, and that someone else remembers what they were called, those organisations that dealt with product quality control, maybe someone remembers "Yugoinspect," so we believed whether the goods were in JUS, or not, means whether they fit our standards or some foreign ones and whether they passed the actual laboratory control or some other. What we're doing and what we're witnessing, you know how to describe it in one word? Nothing before me, history from me. It's the way the government behaves ten years ago, like one king from Borhes' story, who wanted to burn all the books and fence the wall with his empire, so that no one could compare it with others, and burn all the books, that there was no evidence that they existed better than him. Unfortunately, this law cannot be voted on, nor has it been arranged methodologically, nor can the SNS vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-04-0.u44125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've finished our work for today. The presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, will have their word tomorrow morning first. So we continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you for your cooperation.
