ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41485	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to inform all of you about what happened at the SO Kruševac session on Friday. The head of the SRS Committee Group Momcilo Duvnjak, who is now entering the hall, who is a member of the National Assembly, physically opposed the head of the G17 Plus Voikan Pulic's Committee Group, slapped him, with which Mr. Pulic cracked his jaw. So, severe physical injuries have been inflicted. The police were quick to react, but what happens then? Mr. Duvnjak refuses to speak to the police, calls for immunity. For the sake of the public, for all of us, I will read Article 103 of the Constitution, concerning the immunity of the MP. It's said, "The People's Messenger enjoys immunity. The MP may not be called to criminal or other responsibility for an opinion expressed or voting in the exercise of his or her parliamentary function. The MP who has called for immunity cannot be detained, nor can a criminal or other procedure be conducted against him in which a prison sentence can be imposed without the approval of the National Assembly. The MP found in the execution of a criminal offence for which the sentence of imprisonment has been prescribed for more than five years may be detained without the approval of the National Assembly. In a criminal or other procedure in which immunity has been established, the deadlines prescribed for the procedure shall not run. The non-inviting of the MP to immunity does not exclude the right of the National Assembly to establish immunity. '"The police did not respect Mr. Duvnjak's invitation to immunity, but filed a criminal report against him. My colleague, the head of the G17 Plus Committee Group in the SO city of Kruševac, Vojkan Puric, also filed the suit. What I want to ask is: will the prosecution respond to this criminal report filed by the coalition? Secondly, when will the Administrative Board of the National Assembly put on the agenda a point of the issue of immunity of the People's MP Momčil Duvnjak? It's sad that instead of argument, some people use their fists. This, unfortunately, isn't the first time the incidents have happened. This does not only undermine the reputation of the So city of Kruševec, but also the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am sure that political parties, as well as citizens, are choosing their representatives not to physically deal with political opponents, but to have the strength of their arguments affect their attitudes and their ideas as best as possible. So, a question for the prosecution and a question for the Administrative Committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41486	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? (Yes) Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41487	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the distinguished Mrs Grubjesic said, will remain remembered on 11 June as a bad day for the city of Kruševec's democracy. I want the town of Kruševac affirmed in a much better way in this assembly and for the town of Kruševac to be on the front page by the number of investments coming into the town of Kruševac, not by fighting in the municipal parliament. Unfortunately, verbal violence behind the speaker of the Kruševa Parliament has turned into physical violence and our colleague Momcilo Duvnjak has physically attacked the head of the G17 Plus Committee Group, otherwise the respected director of the Health Centre in Kruševac, Mr. Kulic. The truth is, I have to remind you, a few years ago, then the vice president, now a former DS member, has physically calculated himself with a patient at the Rehabilitation Center. He was eventually expelled from the DS and is no longer a member of the DS. But, right, Momcilo Duvnjak, on that day, showed his picture and picture of the beaten man from the assembly pay phone and condemned physical violence. And, right, because he knows what he was saying then about physical violence outside parliament, he must probably be aware of what a serious incident he made in the So Kruševac building. And that is why I expect the same answers to the same questions asked by Mrs Grubjesic from both the prosecution and the Administrative Committee. We must send a clear message from this parliament – Serbia will not be managed by one who has stronger muscles, a more pagan language or a better sniper, but by one who is voted by citizens in the elections! And the citizens vote in the election for those who know the language of arguments and the fact that they oppose the language of accumulated haughtiness and primitiveism. And it has to be a point where we're going to be profiled in the future as people who are able to lead this country. Are you able to oppose the language of arguments and the fact of language-crowded haughtiness and primitiveism or not, and is the state of Serbia able to respond properly in such a language? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41488	The word is from MP Zoran Nikolic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41489	Thank you. My question, at first, for the government and for the assembly majority, is – are MPs of the assembly majority in this House, is the Prime Minister, as well as the Government in general, and the President of the Republic aware of how rudely poor citizens there are in this country? Instead of hunting for the unworthyly wealthy, the work of this government and these congregational majority should be to care for those who do not have the elemental means for a decent and dignified life. We are witnessing that following an agreement with the IMF, it is announced that the first formulation, social aid of 5,000 dinars, aid of 5,000 dinars, a regress for vacations and assistance before New Year's holidays, will be paid, according to Mr Dinkic's interpretation, twice, at the amount of two and a half thousand dinars. Are you aware, in a country where there are millions of poor, rudely poor citizens, that you play in such an irresponsible way with a large sum of money measured by billions of dinars? By what criteria, that's my next question, that money will be distributed to the citizens? According to Mr Dinkic, either everyone or nobody. All those receiving up to 80,000 dinars will receive one-off assistance, he says, a regress for vacation, and following the interpretation of some other ministers, the aid should, however, be given to poorer citizens. Two days ago, we heard an unwitting prime minister who didn't know how to respond on the basis of which criteria that money would be divided. I appeal to Mr Cvetkovic that, finally, he has a position on a matter, I appeal to Vice President Krkobic, who is to enter the government with the DS cost this country, this government has cost citizens over a billion euros, so, at least in this matter, to make a statement and to see if it really is in the spirit of solidarity that this society needs, this proposal that the amount of 5,000 dinars should be paid, first of all, to socially endangered citizens, or should be paid, as Mr Dinkic suggests, even those who have a salary of up to 80,000 dinars. For the sake of the public, I'm here to say that my salary is 79,230 dinars. According to that logic, the citizen who receives a pension of eight thousand dinars and the MP will receive a regress for vacations, as it is divided into two tours, amounting to two and a half thousand dinars. What movie is Mr. Dinkic in? In what world does he live? In what state? How he experiences Serbian citizens when he believes that with two and a half thousand dinars someone can go on vacation, in a country where millions of citizens barely survive, barely put an end to the end, he calls it a regression for vacation. To conclude, a question for this government – exactly from which sources will this one-time aid be paid? The second question – on what criteria will this aid be paid? It's such a paradoxical situation, to say, that's what I want to end, is it the government's representatives, or the ministers, who have a basic sense of shame when they promise this people towers and cities from month to month? A month ago, Minister Dinkic pledged to raise wages in September. If you're raising someone's salary, I'm guessing by some percentage of 5% to 10%, why, then, help and that regress for vacation? This government has long been in a whirlwind of false promises. On false promises, it was created, and that's how it's going to end its term, I hope, very soon and very soon. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41490	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard these days, too, a topic of privatisation of "Evening News", "Luke Belgrade" and through which companies, who are investors, etc. We have a current situation in the town of Smederev, 50 km from this building, already, a little more than a year, practically, a year and a half, talking about the opening of an oil processing refinery and the production of oil derivatives. That's what I was already talking about in this assembly, asking questions to ministers. I got an answer from the Energy Minister that no one has one single piece of paper that's needed for that. But the mayor of Smederev, by the way, used to be our colleague, Mr. Umicevic, of the DS, is persistent and trying to implement that so-called. investment. No one has yet been able to determine whether it really is an investment or something else, that at 130 hectares of land, those who have heard what space I'm talking about, about a phenomenal one space, where it could probably be the best loading port in the Danube, like there are many in the EU, if we decided as a state to make it with a customs-free zone, right in that space, at 700 meters of air gaps from where the water springs for the town of Smederevo, are trying, like, to make a refinery. Why "like," you'll understand from my next exposure. Namely, the company that needs to build that refinery in Smedereva is called Komiko Oil. I've checked it out, and I'm going to re-deliver everything to the Ministry of Energy, although I'm convinced they have, let's say, from the Dutch APR, the Dutch Business Registers Agency, that the company that founded Komiko Oil in Smederev is called Komiko Oversiz. According to stories of who and how he invests in Serbia, Komiko oversiz has formed four individuals: two Americans, one Bulgarian, and one Dutch. They got nothing but that P.O. mailbox. Box," not even a phone number, but an Internet address and an attorney's office. Never produced any bolts, they registered in the Netherlands at the end of 2008, and in the light of their activities or what they will do, where they have no money or bill to deal with it, it writes – investment in Serbia. That's why they registered in Holland and nothing else. So, a company we don't know anything about needs to make a refinery and talk about a $200 million refinery. Anyone who deals with energy and who knows anything about refineries knows that a $200-240 million refinery can't be made unless it's an old refinery, whose parts should be brought somewhere, from Africa or, I don't know, Central America, repacked, coated with paint and made in the perfect place, between the Covin Bridge and the mouth of Morava in Danube. That would cause the Smederevs great problems, but also Serbia. The Mediterranean have collected over 16,000 signatures to hold a referendum, and the city's Assembly does not schedule a referendum. The speaker of the assembly has been replaced, and now, like, the vice president of the assembly, he has no right to do so, but he should wait for the election of the speaker of the assembly. So much for the civil initiative and so much for respecting European and democratic values, as 20% of the electoral bodies have signed that they want to hold a referendum on the issue. And the question is, is it necessary in Smeder to make such a refinery and do the Smederans want it to be made? They don't want to, but they're looking for a referendum. My question for the Ministry of Energy is - were any papers filed requiring a refinery in Smederev and what was the response of the Ministry of Economy? What I'm asking is that more people in Smederev wouldn't go crazy than go to that referendum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41492	The word has an MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia can only move forward if it combats crime if it fights with thieves who have robbed this country for the past 10 years, but it is obvious that the ruling majority has no intention of doing anything on that plan. Two months ago, a proposal from the SRS Parliament Club for the establishment of a polling committee concerning 'Luka Belgrade' was submitted to the president of the Assembly, but until today the issue has not been put on the agenda, and slowly, but every day, some data comes out saying that one of the biggest robberies in the past 10 years has been committed in the privatisation. I ask the question of the Agency for Economic Registers: – Is the solution 81/01 since 22 April 2005 included 6,972.057 actions owned by "Luca Belgrade" before privatisation? Because when a procedure was launched to take over the stock broker that did it said, ordinary actions with the right to vote, the total number of ordinary actions issued is 4.270.237? The simple question arises – what about 2,700,000 actions, how did this suddenly disappear so much action? He says the offerer has taken over about 92.72% of the offered shares, which is about 3,000.960 shares. Just to remind you that the opening date was May 13, and the closing date on June 2, 2006, which says that this number of actions previously identified is fully valid, but the question is, what about 2,700,000 actions? If you look at the "Luka Belgrade" website on the business registers site, you will see a very interesting thing. I said, in the previous procedure, the company "Warldfin" bought 3,960,000 shares. When you look at the structure of the ownership of the stock, the Worldfin has 6,520.020 shares. How come, all of a sudden, 2,360,000 shares? How is that possible? There was no trade in 'Luke Belgrade' actions on the stock market. How is it possible for these actions to occur? I ask that this data be delivered to me, because it is obvious that those who robbed Serbia are being protected in Serbia. Last Thursday, I presented data that Stanko Subotic-Cane gave money to those three companies that privatised "News" and to this day-to-day there is nothing. It's something that apparently indicates that you have no intention of dealing with crime, because largely the representatives of the authorities participated in the robbery of the state. Your character is best told by the case that two MPs just brought out. As for the SRS, we condemn any violence and all those who in any way violate the law should comply with the law to comply. But I ask the question, where were you in 2001 when the president of the Council of Citizens then crossed over the fact that a minister hit the head of a parliamentary group in this room during the session? I have not heard that the representatives of the Democratic Party or the then DOS, at the time of DOS terror, have protested in any way. Where do you get the moral right to answer now? When you do violence, it's allowed, it's politically useful, but when you get it on your head, well, then you're... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41494	Five minutes. Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word based on Article 235? The word is by MP Ivan Andric, the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41495	Our question is addressed to the Serbian Parliament. The LDP submitted an emergency session two or three weeks ago to discuss the government's economic policy and economic measures to get out of the crisis. We have submitted this request by respecting every procedure that has been defined by the Rules of Procedure. Until today, we haven't received an answer to that request. So we ask the President of the Assembly or the Presidency to respond to this request and if he refuses that request, which we consider to be a great probability, given that the silence of the Serbian administration usually means rejection, to explain why it is so. The assembly didn't work, there was plenty of time when that session could take place. The assembly was closed. There's no law in the procedure. The government is late for law-making. So there's time. Which is, then, another reason why the government won't come and tell us what the government's plans are to fight against, for example, the purchase or increase fuel prices. And if this increase in fuel prices exists, how will inflation be contained that will lead to an increase in fuel prices. There are a whole series of questions that MPs are only speculating about, and the government has been persistently avoiding coming and talking to MPs or at least saying its plan. We don't think any government plan that citizens haven't been introduced to is pointless. Every secret kind of work in the economy only increases instability. You can all agree with that. The best way for the government to present this plan to the public is to come to the Assembly, to give us its proposal to measure a few days earlier, so that we can all give our suggestions and suggestions. The LDP has always had proposals regarding getting out of the crisis that Serbia is in and having a discussion with the government. This leaves us unclear what the government is hiding, and why does the government actually assume on itself a kind of responsibility that neither according to the Constitution nor under the law has the right? She has no right to bring us before the final act, to see on television what measures are and to interpret each of us in their own way without any explanation. I will remind you that often ministers from that government make contradictory and contradictory statements about the same measures. The colleagues mentioned this social assistance, which, in our opinion, is an insult to the citizens of Serbia, but there is a disagreement – who will get this help, why, in what way, what is it, is it a regress for vacation, is it social assistance, is it going to be given to MPs? I noticed, too, my colleague, that our salary is at that level. Whether this is how the government continues to want to direct citizens' anger towards the Serbian Parliament. We tell you today, we don't need it. If you bring that measure, it's against us, against every MP who sits here. A whole series of measures is the continued ignoring of the government to share these measures with us, with those who chose this government or at least some who sat here. So I'm going to repeat the question one more time - why aren't those sessions here? Why won't the Prime Minister answer us? Why does the President of the Assembly refuse and respond to the request, not just an appointment? It's clear to us that it's not in her power, it's been shown so many times, that she's brought the prime minister here and made him talk about the agenda, but at least we think that as a parliamentary group voted for by over 200,000 people she has the right to answer about it, or maybe that right is gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41496	You'll get an answer, just to get me the text you're calling for and the reason why the answer hasn't been sent so far. MP Velimir Ilic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41497	Madam Chairman, I would just ask a question and I would refer to one of the questions already asked here – what does the Government think and how could the mayor of Smedereva without the decision of SO Smederevo, without a decision of the City Council, without any paper from the Ministry of Energy and the Government's decision, sign a contract with the company?- I'm sorry. The contract is signed. Last year, the mayor signed a contract in August, and he and the company, appointed him and the prosecutor's office's opinion is that the contract is valid. Now you Democrats are in big trouble. You cannot officialize what your mayor officially signed and wrote. And now you buy the councilmen, you trade, you pay to get a majority, so you can make as much official as you can and protect the mayor who committed a serious crime. Will the departments respond to all this? Here's the contract in both English and Serbian, certified, signed, and it's important, that the land is leased for the construction of the refinery. So, the story is there's going to be a debate, a referendum, etc., it's over with one irresponsible man, because if this firm sues, it's gonna get slow, because it's got all the proper signatures. You can check, I can give you an insight, if that means anything to you. So, the story is finished, the "contract" is concluded without any agreement, without any opinion from the competent institutions in this country, without the Parliament's decision, without the City Council's decision, without the Smedera citizens asking for a referendum to make a statement on this issue. He's signed, certified and invaluable. So what do you think you're gonna do and how to get out of this crisis, how to explain all this, I don't know, but God help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41498	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? (No) The answer to the question of MP Ivan Andric, an initiative submitted by the LDP Group on 25 May to the Prime Minister and the National Assembly president is an initiative contained by MP Ivan Andric. What I can now give in response is that the procedureal appointment of the session requires that a formal application be submitted for holding an emergency or regular session, in a different form. It is indisputable that you will also receive an answer in your interview with the President of the Assembly and that your idea can also be converted into a request for a session with the current topic, unless there are procedural and business opportunities for a different approach. There are no deadlines, so I can't tell you whether or not any member of the Rules of Procedure has been violated, since your initiative does not involve deadlines. So, it's just an initiative, I can say, a personal opinion, that we should consider it at the college, of course. If that's a transitional solution, at the first college meeting, I'm going to require that we agree on this. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miroslav Petkovic, Radojko Obradovic and Arsen Djuric. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in addition to the representative of the proposing Radovan Jelasic, governor of the National Bank of Serbia, called for the meeting to be attended by Dusan Lalic, general director of the National Bank of Serbia's Legislative Affairs Directorate. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia (subsistence in principle) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: SPS-JS, LDP, ZES, DSS, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. I give the word to the first declared MP, in order and applications for the word. The People's Messenger, Djordje Milicevic, has a word, and after him is the Messenger Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41499	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Honorable Mr Jelasic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I want to say at the very beginning is that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group in principle supports the draft law on amendments and additions to the NBS Act. The National Bank of the Republic of Serbia is, in fact, one of the most significant institutions in the Republic that overrule the area of macroeconomic and financial stability of our country. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the NBS Act are vital. Personally, I believe that this bill with 101 amendments and additions may not be the most rational solution, that perhaps a much better and more rational solution would be that we went to the adoption of a whole new law. The frequent changes in system laws that sometimes change and the essence of certain laws are, I would say, unpopular and, in a certain context, a shadow of consistent policy, a shadow of efficiency. My personal view is that there have been many reasons for the adoption of a new text, for the adoption of a new law on NBS. At this point, I can single out, say, three, in my personal sight, I say, the most important. We have brought a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a state union of Serbia-Montenegro has disappeared, Serbia has become a sovereign and independent state and would have to pass a new law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. So, just three, it seems to me, the reasons are quite enough to say in favour of the finding that we really need and need a new law on NBS. What is more important after the adoption and adoption of the Constitution for a single state than the adoption of a new law on NBS, the National Assembly Act, the Government Act and the Ministry and, of course, the Law on the Judiciary? Such system laws, we are convinced, edits and strengthens the functioning of state institutions. But what's there is, we have before us proposed amendments and additions, a bill on amendments and additions to the NBS Act, and I want to say a few sentences on this proposal as well. We support further strengthening institutional, personal, operational, financial independence and the independence of the NBS. This is a widely accepted standard of international financial law, as stated among other things in the light of this legislative proposal. In our current political practice there are different conflicting opinions, different attitudes, and even between individual ministers, government members and governors, who represent the NBS policy. I understand that the Central Bank's policy objectives are often contrary and are not compatible with the government's economic objectives, which is also normal for this difficult time. However, this cannot be exclusive in co-operation in the adoption and creation of macroeconomic policy. Furthermore, strengthening the independence and independence of the NBS, established by this law, must not create a gap between institutions. These measures and principles are not in themselves the means to achieve the basic objective, achieve and maintain price stability. All these measures of economic and fiscal policy are contained in the Budget Law and the Memorandum that follows it, and they are all obliged to respect it and take measures to implement it. It is very important to point out the position of Article 4 of this Law, which, as an imperative, sets out that state bodies and organisations or other persons cannot exert influence, nor threaten the independence and independence of the NBS. In particular, I would like to highlight the ban on monetary financing, or the Central Bank cannot finance authorities at all levels, from the Republic to local self-government. This ban has crucial importance for achieving the basic objective of monetary policy, which is to maintain price stability. On the other hand, funding for the public sector, agencies, funds, as a negative goal sets a weaking of fiscal discipline. We support further harmonisation and approximation of the provisions of this legislative proposal with the provisions of the EU Treaty, of the EU's functioning contracts, and of the provisions of the Statutes of the European System of the Central Bank and of the European Central Bank. Finally, I also highlight the autonomy of certain provisions, solutions, on the specificities of the financial banking system in the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I would like to point out, at the very end, the SPS-JS Parliament Club in principle supports this legislative proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41500	Five minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric, followed by the National MP Branko Ljiljak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41501	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that it is very important or one of the most important legislative proposals, or amendments and additions to the laws that lie ahead. I'm going to try to say what the LDP's position is, and I'm going to try not to talk about this quasi-expert language in order to cloud what's essential. The point is, you'll agree, however, deeply political. As we saw in the debate at the beginning, the day before, the situation that absolutely determined the course of the debate is the fact that the governor himself forgot to mention, and that is, I must remind you, that, however, you are not the governor, you are the governor of the resignations. I have to say, even though we've had deep disagreements in the past, and political and all sorts of things, what the DOS once stood for and today's LDP is that we've always tried to defend you when there were these conflicts between you and the government. Whether they were personal reasons, I can't get into it, nor is that correct. But certainly there was a conflict between you and the government, at least in the media. There used to be a conflict between you and the import lobby, sometimes between you and the export lobby, depending on how your daily work reflected their interests. And that marked the last day of the debate about you. And that, somewhere, is the political basis for what we're discussing today. So, in our deep conviction, this law is a step away from the political independence and independence of the National Bank. I'll try to explain it. If the NBS consists of the structure or the experts that work there, run by the governor and the Vice-Governors, and from now on the Executive Board, but consists of one body that is not in any formal or essential, however you will, in any sense, is not part of the NBS, it is the National Bank Council. It also serves politically to control the work of the governor and the National Bank as a whole, given that it has a financial report in power, annual financial plans for next year. What is the political move she has chosen, in my deep conviction, however, the Government, not you? And that is, to take one of the essential issues of discord or conflict between the government and the governor, which is a matter of course, to the National Bank or their representatives, which are governors and vice governors, and that in the jurisdiction of the National Bank Council, which is a political body. The Council will be elected in the Assembly, and according to what the law says, if I am not mistaken, formal members of the Council are not employees of the NBS. There is a formal separation, but it is a clear essence of the existence of the Council. To talk about the political independence of the Council, we don't think it's real, and we don't need to get into it at all. The current president of the Council is, as far as we can see, a candidate for the new governor, and he is also a member of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's economic team. He's even in a formal relationship with the prime minister. We suspect he's speaking or expressing NBS views. We think he's there because he's a professor at the Faculty of Economics, if I'm not mistaken. As such, he sits in the National Bank. It's a clear political thread. The man on Prime Minister Cvetkovic's economic team is also a candidate for governor. You, as one of the fundamental arguments, gave that the NB wrote and that it was the legislator, which should guarantee to us MPs that the NB is more concerned about its independence than the government. Essentially, or from our point of view, maybe this law, is why you will no longer serve as governor. I'm not going to go into it, but the governor of the resignations, someone whom this law does not apply or has not agreed to work under these conditions, proposes the law trying to convince us that this is a step, not you, but MPs of the ruling majority, towards the independence of the NB. In our opinion and what we manage to see in the media, therefore, the matter is very simple, advice as a political body. The governor whom he will propose, and then, outside of every procedure, which we often witness here, chooses the ruling majority without any serious debate, then the President of the Republic, or the ruling majority, will also have full control over that segment of society, precisely by doing what is the basic problem today in Europe, and which, perhaps, will force some of the countries of Europe in the future to get out of the Euro zone doing just that. In our opinion, the government had a situation, it had twice in front of it, one is, we agree with you, that the subject of the course, that the causes of the dinar fall are different, or should I say different, deep, but that the most of it lies in it, in the very structure of Serbia's economy, which, I could not call it anything different, but unproductive. It's our structure. Now that the government has this as a problem and has a situation where the dinar course is falling more and more every day, it has not decided to implement structural reforms and ensure that the course is maintained until the next elections in a stable and economically healthy manner. No, the government decided, and Boris Tadic, for the second time. We've had plenty of opportunities to see it, the government has decided to take over the NB. Foreign reserves have so much to do with that course, even if it's fixed today, until the next election. And you will admit that the subject of the course, or the level of value of the dinar, is one political topic that will play an important role in the elections. So our assessment is that the government has set out, so to say so in a Colloquial way, to bridge time to the next election by not allowing the market to create a course of dinars, because you yourself have said, today's regime – it is not necessary to change the regime. The new governor will have enough tools to decide to defend the course at a much higher price than the one you were prepared for. That price and this particular influence of the government, which in our opinion is very excessive, on the National Bank, and after this law, not to say, will be complete. It's very simple if you're looking. The government has often disputed with you. I don't get into the motives of it, but the basic theme of this dispute in the media was the value of the dinar. This famous, like, psychological limit of 100, after which when it crosses 100 dinars per euro, it all collapses, the whole system collapses and so on for months back. The only person or a rare person who, in addition to the professional public, defended this kind of forming the value of that course on the market, it was you, never from the government to support it. After that, you resign, comes a new law on the National Bank, which is, like, harmonising with the Constitution, without any public debate. We've been communicating with many economists, they haven't seen that law, nor have we seen it. So, you now, not personally, of course, but as the ruling majority decided to seek support from the National Assembly. As the only argument we have heard from the ruling coalition, it is – since this governor who resigned worked well and did not allow the government to interfere, accept these amendments of the law, and will not allow the government to interfere. Unfortunately, we are not in a position to believe, by the character of the governor, whether we vote or not for some law. You know what, Mr. Shoskic is still just an informal candidate. Perhaps the candidate is someone far more loyal to the ruling coalition, I'm sure he won't be more unprofessional, even they haven't gotten there. What's essential is that when politics enter the National Bank in such a way, there is no end. No matter what the intentions were, those intentions were... We saw it, I'm sure that Slobodan Milosevic when he ordered the first printing of the money he was sure he was doing the right thing, but his stomach only hurts for the first time, after two or three years it became anyway. We're just pointing you to the situation. So it is clear that the government has realised that the biggest problems in this society are economic; that people are poor, hungry, that for the first time in the mood citizens appear the word 'poor' after ten years. The government is also aware of its impotence in economic reform or laziness and has decided on two steps. One step is the sale of Telecom, the introduction of that money, hoping to contribute through the system to some current relief, and has decided that it is no longer engaged in structural reforms in defence of the course, but will deal with manipulations in defence of the course, wanting only to bridge the next elections, regardless of the consequences that will come later. We haven't heard any arguments that would guide us to think differently. So, I will repeat again, the only jurisdiction that has not been said before, we are not talking about Boris Tadic, the president of the state (I am sorry) proposing to the governor, it is a constitutional solution, we think it is bad because it does not mean the election process of the governor. It makes sense if he obliges the same president to talk, I don't know, from the parliamentary groups to the expert public. Today, a formal competition for the director of RTS has been completed. The public in Serbia doesn't know if anyone signed up or not. These are the ways people choose in this country. So the same way the governor will be elected. They'll come here, the ruling majority will vote, they'll just watch that five hours for discussion. If possible, this agenda item will be merged with some ratification. That'll be the end of it. I'm sure whoever it is, the intentions will be good at first, but the opportunities given to the ruling majority are not good. That is why we have proposed, that is, one more thing I would like to point out – that it is not about deeply thought-out changes and that there is no jurisdiction in the powers of the Executive Board. The policy of course is mentioned, which is another matter, but if a member who defines the Council says that the Council makes a decision based on the proposal, if I am not mistaken, of the Executive Board, and with the consent of the Government, why is this jurisdiction not mentioned in the responsibilities of the Executive Board? This should be crucial, that the Executive Board is obliged to propose that on the dinar course regime. It's not there. So this only assures us that it was done quickly and with a desire to avoid public debate on both Parliament and the professional public. We have consulted many experts and everyone tells us that what I'm talking about now is a possibility. Whether it's intention or not, we don't know that, of course, but let us as an opposition to doubt it. That's why we proposed an amendment, very short, just to erase it and to keep it as it was before, until further notice. This would be a step in building further independence or independence of the Central Bank, not taking it as a key argument in the dispute between the government and the National Bank, as well as putting it in charge, however, of a political body within the National Bank of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41502	From the time of the parliamentary group, 13 minutes have been used. The word has a folk MP, Branka Ljiljak, and after that, MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41503	Dear Presidency, distinguished members of the National Bank of Serbia, Mr Jelasic and Mr Lalic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the law on amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. The constitutional basis for this law is set out in Article 95(3) and Article 97(6). Harmonising with international standards is an obligation that is expected of us that our institutions can work more easily with the environment and with the world. These are two things that are very important for the application and establishment of the National Bank Act. I would mention at the outset of Article 2 which unites everything that is the National Bank of Serbia, which is: the Central Bank, independent and independent in performing the functions for which it is established, and therefore is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly and is responsible for its work. It is an institution which does not receive or request instructions from the national authorities in carrying out its activity. I think one of the important factors is this attitude found in Article 2. Since the institution is not an institution for itself and is not enough for itself, it has been able to make new changes and additions to represent the Republic of Serbia in international financial institutions, normally, with the government's consent. It can certainly attend government sessions, give an opinion on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Republic, or the Government and the Ministry of Finance, give an opinion on the laws that are within the jurisdiction of the National Bank. By the way, I think the law is enough, if it is respected, that all the disagreements that are happening and now debates in the professional public, if the law is respected, there will be no problem. The government has given its opinion on the laws of jurisdiction and gives consent to the foreign exchange regime, and the foreign exchange regime is, of course, in the National Bank itself, at the Board of Governors. I think the misunderstandings about the foreign exchange regime, if this law is passed, and I think they will because they are changing and supplementing the good and will improve the work of the National Assembly, a greater number of professional people will agree on both the foreign exchange regime and the business of the National Bank, and then there will be no major problems that are not expected because this is an institution that is credible, which in its composition has people who care, but they are not themselves enough and they certainly have to discuss and agree with both the government and the businessmen, and that they are doing their job. I would add that Article 3 highlights the basic objective of the existence of the National Bank, which is to achieve and maintain price stability and maintain the stability of the financial system. This should be taken into account in all other discussions that will follow. These changes and additions highlight strengthening institutional, personal, financial independence. In this context, I would like to mention the authorities of the National Bank, these are: The Executive Board, which is now a newspaper on these amendments and additions, instead of earlier the Monetary Committee, the Normal Governor and the Board of Governors. The Executive Board is made up of governors and vice governors, whom, according to this proposal, changes and additions, are from two to four, which is less than ever so far, so I assume that the Executive Board will therefore be more operational and easier to cooperate and work with. The Executive Board shall establish monetary and foreign policy, as well as conservation activities, price stability and the financial system, which is now a newspaper on these changes and additions. Otherwise, monetary and foreign policy decisions were made by the Monetary Committee, it was taken over by the Executive, but it also got this new dimension. The paper is also that regulations are adopted in the area of control and supervisory function, which primarily refers to the work of banks, insurance companies and financial leases. The Board of Governors shall consist of five members elected by the National Assembly. They are not employed in the National Bank and have to be financial experts, it would be desirable, then one of them must have experience in the field of accounting and audit and have at least 10 years of working experience. These facts must be taken into account when selecting candidates, and I am sure that the Finance Committee will propose the best candidates to do their job professionally, and there should be no dilemma. The governors' council has so far been making a financial plan, adopting financial reports, making a choice for an external auditor. Now he's also getting a supervisory role in the work of the National Bank. With these amendments, the reference rate, which was previously escontaneous, is an instrument in the identification and implementation of monetary policy, and makes the financial market stable with other factors. The inflation rate is reflected by changes in the reference rate, i.e. I think it is crucial to decide and maintain inflation under control. I believe that for the citizens this role of the National Bank is very important because it affects their lives directly. The main goal, I would mention it again, is to maintain price stability and preserve and strengthen the stability of the financial system. I would also look back on the role of control over the work of the National Bank, which is done by the National Assembly. The National Bank is delivering, now following these changes and additions, a half-yearly report on monetary policy, as well as reports on the stability of the financial system. The financial plan is being submitted by 31 December of the current year, as has been so far. The election of governors and the election of the National Bank Council goes through the National Assembly and the possibilities for discussion are always possible. I think, and I am convinced, that these changes and additions will be adopted, and that will contribute to a better position and greater independence of the National Bank of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41504	Seven minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is by MP Milos Radulovic, followed by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41505	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Jelasic, we expected you much earlier, especially at the time when it was discussed and negotiated with the IMF, and we expected you and the government to come out here before the MPs, explain the terms of this arrangement with the IMF, the reasons why it is entering this arrangement, especially since it is a huge financial arrangement that weighs two billion and nine hundred million euros, because citizens have the right to know the reasons, conditions and height of that arrangement, especially as it is a huge money that they have to pay back. I would remind citizens that a billion and 328m euros have already been spent, that four negotiations with the IMF mission have already been made under the stand-by arrangement with the stand-by arrangement. Instead, Mr. Jelasic, we see you today as the man who proposes amendments and additions to the NBS Act and by emergency procedure. We do not understand why it is so urgent, in this process here in the National Assembly, especially the more logical it was for the newly elected governor to propose the law to the National Assembly of Serbia and at the same time explain it. Otherwise, the new governor of the NBS, Dejan Soskic, president of the NBS Council, is already fairly speculated in public. In light of the emergency procedure, it is said that the law should be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with international standards. I don't think that these reasons lie, especially since, although the ruling coalition has been saying with audiblely that the EU has no alternative, that this process is somewhat slowed down and that we are far from the EU. So much, Mr. Jelasic, for an authorized man who should propose this law in the Assembly and on the deadlines, that is, the reasons for the urgency of this procedure. What is changing in this law is that the Monetary Committee is being abolished and the Executive Board is being introduced, so the authorities of the NBS are now the Executive Board, the Governor and the NBS Council. The DSS parliamentary group and the public in this law are concerned and we feel that it is not right that, instead of, as it has been so far, the NBS has been tasked with acting independently and, with the government's consent, establishing a course regime, the new law introduces a solution that the Council proposes a course regime to the government, and the government approves its decisions. With this change, we believe that the independence of the NBS is being choked, and by transferring jurisdiction to the NBS Board of Authorities, the NBS are being introduced into the political sphere. Council members are not employed by the NBS. They are delegated by political parties, so that basically elected politicians, members of the Council, will make, above all, political decisions in the interest of those behind them. Let's just remember in the 1990s, Mr. Jelasic and Governor Atanakovic. Was Mr. Atanakovic even a governor who had some independence or was politics, a course and everything that happened then with hyperinflation and pyramidal banks, led by the governor, or was it led by politics, or political parties that were then in power? They should tell us more about it and give us an answer to the SPS MPs, because they know pretty well how the NBS worked then and how she had a relationship with the government. That's why we're asking the question - who's the biggest threat to NBS independence? It is clear to everyone that it is the government, obviously not the goal of price stability, of strengthening the financial sector, but of making decisions and all decisions, exactly the opposite. On a public service show, we reminded ourselves that on March 23rd of this year you resigned as governor of the NBS, with a reason to do so for personal reasons. I am afraid that these proposed solutions that the work of the NBS and the decisions are being transferred to the political decision-making field are essentially the real reason. Your statement that the government is not doing well, that it spends too much, and that the Greek scenario threatens us, by many in power, has been too much and, too, the resentment of individual politicians from the ruling coalition, that your co-ordination with the government has not been satisfactory. You have repeatedly reiterated that monetary policy must not be in the hands of politicians, and that the aim of the National Bank of Serbia is to preserve the country's price stability, as well as that it will surely be respected to the end. I'll remind you, Mr. Jelasic, that last year was 6.6%. However, it should be said openly, though it is said to be a success and the result of exactly one policy conducted by the National Bank of Serbia together with the government, that the most high prices have just been controlled, that by 14% last year in 2009, public service prices have increased. For the first five months of this year we have an inflation of 5.2%, although inflation is projected for this year 6%, plus minus 2%. In fact, just the prices controlled by the state have greatly exceeded those frameworks you've given. I'll remind you that the power went up 11.5 percent. The phone subscription went from 238 dinars to 450 dinars, that the SSB from 745 collected at 820 dinars, that, Mr. Jelasic, the gas went by more than 12%, and the only question is with this trend where it will go. But what is essentially an iron, so to speak, that inflation is exactly a reduction in consumption, i.e. a reduction in these consumer prices, because the reasons for this are quite clear to everyone. It's just a decrease in purchasing power, a fall in standards, and an increase in unemployment. We all know that there are now 767 thousand people in the country who are not employed and we have over a million people living below the poverty line. It is precisely that it is not the result of the National Bank of Serbia, but, above all, of a dramatic situation in which the citizens of our country are located. For a four-member family, the data came out yesterday, it's practically necessary to meet the basic needs, somewhere, about 100,000 dinars. Let me ask you, who has them? Who gets a salary of 100,000 dinars? Since the beginning of the crisis, the dinar has practically fallen by 31.87% compared to the euro and is the most in the region. Merchants due to this fall in course, already, at the end of the month, announce an increase in prices that will have a drastic impact on inflation. That didn't bother, for example, Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, to say, after the dinar's depression, we got cheap labour, which is one of our comparative advantages. Mr. Jelasic, you said not long ago, "I'm not going to blow out any loans! Dinar's slipping into disaster! Standards aren't built on credits! The power of the dinar depends on foreign direct investment, exports, foreign borrowings, macroeconomic policies, and above all, I mean domestic consumption, or pensions and wages. For my personal and popularity of the National Bank of Serbia, it would be easiest to spend half a billion euros, and that, borrowed funds, which we will one day have to pay back. It's obvious that the National Bank of Serbia is ruining someone's party here because the loan money doesn't want to be spent. Today, on June 15th, from January 1st to today, the amount of five hundredm euros is well exceeded. So far, the state has spent a billion and 188.5m euros to defend the course. Last year, 659m euros were spent to defend the course. I remind you that from the IMF so far, in order to defend the rate and strengthen foreign reserves, we have withdrawn a billion and 328m euros, a smaller inflow of foreign direct investment, only 380m euros; the number of unemployment since the start of the crisis has increased over 250,000 people, and this year alone, 45 000 people have lost their jobs; the large indifference of business entities that are late in repayment of liabilities per loan, the percentage increases from month to month, is now 12.2%. Delays in the reconciliation of obligations between economic operators are huge. Large systems are ahead in late times, which are at peace after six months. Over 70,000 companies are in a blockade. Public enterprises record losses, over four billion euros, thus showing the results in losses. The foreign debt is 23.3 billion. I would remind you, as we talk about this dramatic data, that only the banks that recorded the profits last year of 22.2 billion dinars, and that the National Bank recorded revenues, i.e. that the revenues are higher than the expenditures of 4.08 billion dinars. According to the European Investment Bank, Serbia is the largest credit user in the Western Balkans. You yourself said that Serbia is awaiting a Greek scenario, if it continues to be overly in debt. I would remind you that since the start of this government's mandate, 3.7 billion euros of credit have been withdrawn and that only this year should it return about 2.6 billion, with the corresponding interest. Mr. Jelasic, as I said, foreign debt is 23.3 billion, plus what citizens owe. The external debt is about 28.3 billion euros. Of these, according to the unofficial data from which authorised organisations come out, although this is a much larger debt, public debt is 10.8 billion euros or 33.6%, and it will be over 12 billion or over 40% of GDP. We, according to the economic power and size of GDP, belong to high-indebted countries. We spend more than we make, and we make up for the deficits. Is it true, Mr Jelasic, what Albert Jager said, that Serbia should spend up to 2.5 billion euros in defence of the course? In the end, why is this government trying to convince us that production is on the rise, exports, too, although everything suggests it's different? Whether, gentlemen, MPs from the ruling majority, political marketing, for survival in power, is more important than responsibility to their own people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41506	From the time of the parliamentary group, 14 minutes and 40 seconds have been used. The word is made by MP Milan J. Nikolic. After him, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. Please, just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41507	Dear Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the authorised representatives and the previous presentation in principle have explained the reasons and importance of the adoption of such a law and beyond, and I will only stick to some of the details of this law so that, for the sake of the public, we can inform each other how many of these amendments are made in this law. I must say that the 2005 law is a good law, which defined the position and organisation of the Central Bank of Serbia, and the solutions were at some point adapted to European banking standards and practices. However, the period since 2005, so to speak, recorded the fall or, let me say, the fall of the Federation. To remind you, the NBS has been responsible for the banking system of both Serbia-Montenegro and, at the same time, amendments and additions to the law arise for the need for further approximation of the practice of European legislation, especially the practice of the Central Bank of Europe. In fact, this law records a comprehensive and systematic arrangement of positions, objectives, bodies, functions and operations of the NBS. The main objective of the change and addition is to strengthen the position of the Central Bank, above all, in its independence and independence, so that it can fulfil the basic task, preserve the country's macroeconomic and financial stability and bring its business system closer to Europe, especially the European Central Bank. The main functions of the bank would be to establish and carry out monetary control, manage foreign exchange reserves, issue and confiscate operating permits and control the creditworthiness and legality of banks, as well as business insurance, financial leases, voluntary pension funds, and at the same time to control the business of these banking institutions; to establish and implement activities in the framework of its jurisdiction to preserve and strengthen the stability of the financial system; to issue banknotes and coins and manage cash flows; to regulate, monitor and improve the smooth functioning of the payment system; to the contract lays down tasks for the Republic of Serbia without jeopardising, in doing so, independence and its independence. The papers in this law are on the management and management of the Central National Bank by forming new bodies and bodies, namely, the Executive Board of the National Bank, the Governor of the National Bank and the National Bank Governor's Council. To remind you, the Executive Board is now made up of governors and vice governors and the Executive Board's task is to establish monetary policy and measures to preserve and strengthen the stability of the financial system. This is done through the monetary policy programme, through the determination of interest rate levels, method of calculation and collection of those interest rates on the balances and other claims of the NB; it regulates the conditions and methods of issuing securities from the value; it determines the policy of granting short-term loans; the dinar course policy; it sets the basis for calculating the mandatory reserve and reserve rates; it sets out the strategy and policy on the management of foreign reserves, as well as the guidelines for managing these reserves; it takes measures to maintain the liquidity of banks. It is important to mention that the Executive Board determines the reference interest rate and other interest rates applied by the National Bank of Serbia in the implementation of monetary policy. The Executive Board is taking over part of the governor's powers so far, especially in the area of supervision of financial institutions, as well as other supervisory and control functions. I would like to mention once again that the Executive Board has been particularly authorised to make decisions on the granting and withdrawal of permits for the work of banks, insurance companies, lising businesses and voluntary pension funds. The governor of the NBS manages the operations of the bank and organises its work, implements the decisions of the Executive Board, proposes the internal regulations of the Bank approved by the Executive Board and the Board of Governors of the NBS, and the paper is that the Governor is elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the President of the Republic, whose term of office takes six years. The bill also defines the conditions that the candidate for governor must meet, in addition to the necessary expertise and experience, and especially in the part where he cannot be a MP, cannot be a member of the government and of any body controlled by the NBS, nor does he own actions in banks, societies, institutions controlled by the NBS. The governor proposes to the NB Council to elect a vice governor who must, in addition to expertise and experience, meet the conditions that the governor meets. It's good that the number of vice governors decreases from the previous number. The governor's council is a new body instead of the NB Council. It numbers four members whose election is being held by the National Assembly, also with a six-year term. The Board of Governors, as the highest body of the Bank, adopts the Statute, determines the course regime of the dinars, brings a financial plan, adopts annual financial reports, elects auditors and adopts a strategy for the development of the NB and monitors its implementation, all on a proposal from the Executive Board, and submits a report on its work and direct responsibility to the National Assembly. As is seen from the above, the bill introduces a more rational organisation, reduces the number of vice-governments, thus also the number of members of the Executive Board, reduces the number of members of the Council, and in particular potentiates the role of the Council in control of clearly defined areas and clearly defined criteria. The issue of independence and independence of the Central Bank and its bodies is particularly potent as a widely accepted standard of international financial law. This standard is crucial for the implementation of the bank's basic tasks, to preserve monetary financial stability without State interference, because, as the legislator himself, in explaining the text of the law, it says that the objectives of the government's economic policy and how these objectives are achieved may be contrary to the preservation of financial monetary stability, especially in the part of preserving price stability and control of inflationary movements. That is why the election of governors is also entrusted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and control over the work of the Central Bank is carried out by the National Assembly through regular reports on the stability of the financial system and the implementation of monetary policy. Such an organisational setting of the Central Bank is a potential responsibility for the measures it takes and for the decisions made, but also strengthens its independence. A very important provision on the ban on monetary financing, credit approval, loans and other types of credit relief to the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and local self-government, and I believe that the most important role of the bank is, but also, its great responsibility in authorising the establishment of the dinar course regime and the conduct of a stable course policy through foreign exchange interventions. Due to all that has been said so far, because of the hope that the bank's independence strategy will be fully established, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41508	Nine minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, and after that, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41509	Thank you. Let me start with what my colleague ended up with. The law stipulates that the National Assembly controls the National Bank, and predicts that it is controlled by the way the National Bank will deliver its work reports. How does someone control someone if you deliver a document to them?- I'm sorry. It's, uh, not to be rude, Mr. Jelasic and other colleagues, just as funny as if we were citizens to appear in the role of the controller of some media house that provides us with information about anything or anyone. Therefore, the attempt not to adopt the Statute in this assembly, which is in the law, and that the supervisory role of the Republika Srpska Assembly comes down to informing the post-festum, on already done things, in favour of the rejection of this legislative project. In support of the rejection of this concept, which you have delivered to us, the theory I have been following from 28 years to today, speaks practice and your results. They speak partyly defined, and very respected economists, which I will quote at this time. Those with enough credibility and experience, such as one Milton Friedman, who, for example, says that – in a democratic society, there is a need for a wider consensus on monetary policy. Yes, I quote Friedman who said that – always and everywhere inflation is a monetary phenomenon. That's what I'm going to illustrate with three or four data and from your reports. Why is it that, against your concept, the theory of the existence of the famous financial history of Serbia to this day, is published in 1929, which I once showed to Mr Jelasic, in the issue of the Gece Kona bookstore, is called "Our domestic economy", I will read to you only two sentences: "The business of the National Bank cannot be compared with the examples of France, Belgium and Switzerland and their emissions banks, because these institutions belong to strong capitalist countries, both in terms of close ties with the big international market and in terms of their own strength of the free market. It must be of much greater benefit to the domestic economy, which you forget, 'and to set your credit policy in the way that today's economic opportunities require, so that this policy represents a powerful leverage in the field of improving domestic work. ''The conclusion that I'm reading the quote is ''Let the policy be theoretically not correct, but let it be only useful in action, which is important. ''Now to add from the point of view of your results, your policy is useful, but the question is – who?- I'm sorry. Not the largest number of citizens, but a certain group of individuals, who made good money out of it. What's most important for a national bank? To provide a policy that can be expected to be a stronger fact by an important institution in raising our country's material well-being. Mr. Jelasic, respected colleagues, respected citizens, everything we learn, we do and we know, everything we say is in function, someone says, the smile of a citizen, someone translates it into a better standard of living, the philosophers of today say, from Neve to this day, that we have forgotten that we are building the 'Horse of Happiness' in people, because that is the meaning of our actions, since then, today, operations, not that someone is proving their expertise, not to find excuses, but that this life makes our life easier and happier, if possible. The policy run by the National Bank did not make it possible. I will quote Mr Vladimir Gligorov, whom I very much respect, who is closely related to one of our opposition parties, the LDP, who said several, respected and decent respect and mentions, sentences, for example – 'The largest number of central banks are public, not private institutions. It's their legal knowledge that I'm not getting into. The two objectives are the most common to reach the central bank: stability in price and stability in economic growth. Your economic growth is as far away as the inaccessible peaks of the Himalayas and you are so interested. ''What Mr. Gligorov said in 2003, at the moment the SRJ splits and when it is first spoken about the independence of the Central Bank of Serbia, correctly says that – it is necessary to achieve an ideal measure between classical respect for the rules on discretionary decision-making. The rule that should oblige the Central Bank's behaviour and what you call independence, incorrectly extending it to that your actions are secret and in favour of only some, is the following: the rule that should oblige the central bank's behaviour is in the choice and application of monetary policy instruments. ''Let me repeat, if we haven't heard correctly, 'in applying the instruments and the choice of monetary policy', but not in defining the goal – who is this single individual or this council or executive board who can define the goal for millions of citizens and work counter-government, from economic policy, from the memorandum and from what is called the standard or smile of Serbian citizens? So, I quote further Gligorova, from that magazine "Economist Magazine", number 165, from 2003 – "Independent is the central bank which has the goal of monetary policy clearly determined and which has been left with the freedom to achieve it by the means it has. You have extended this to inaccessible borders and to the detriment of Serbian citizens. '"What does Gligorov say next? He expects the independent central bank to put all the elements of its monetary policy and all the analysis and consideration of the benefits it has decided on certain instruments. It is important to strengthen its operational independence, therefore, in the application of the instruments, not by setting goals, since the public, and that means the economy, do not have to speculate on what the bank is going to do, nor do they have to limit such arbitrary behaviour by their speculations. The concepts you presented speak not only of your reports and those financial results with losses, say prices in actions, which say you have not achieved control over inflation, says the euro course. Against your policies speak wars for the apartment, tells the experience of the lollipop, its time promoted broadly and extensively and says she's saying that only one who didn't have to be in charge is saved. It tells us the business of the Institute for the Making of Money and Abuse, which, without applying the Law on Public Procurement, has been granted the exclusive right to work on some documents by the Ministry of Interior, where you as the National Bank, whose owner is the Republic of Serbia, and you have nothing to do with it except to cover your losses, to come to an extraprofit, for which I will not fail to quote, on advice, how to explain that you have no money to transfer to the budget those unrealised gains that you actually have, only we do not have that virtual ability to see them, nor the budget to earn them. And why did you get those results? The concept of independence in which you, Mr. Jelasic, have made it possible for yourself, without asking anyone, that banks deal with securities trading of value with you, as the safest business, not by lending to the economy and the population, which is the basic business of the banks, is something that will require a little deeper analysis of responsibility. Since 2004 in a state of securities of value, therefore, instead of giving loans to citizens and businesses, banks have invested in charters worth 2004 billion and 75 million, and in 2009, listen to me well, this situation is 151 billion and 98 million dinars, data from the National Bank. And when I say, Mr. Jelasic, when the budget, or the Republic of Serbia, was selling you foreign exchanges, and you weren't giving them pears and apples, I quote you, but some dinars, who was paying interest on these and these securities of value? That's the inflation I'm putting on your burden that you created, and the money and inflation emissions, if the reference rate, so the interest that you paid from 16.44% in December 2004, so in March 2005, for example, it was five months, about 20%, 18%, 13%, and 9%, by December 2008, it was 17%, in order to finish with December 2009, the interest you paid on those records from the values that from 1.7 billion to 151 billion, was 9.5%, and that, meanwhile, the bank's ino-probability would increase from 83 billion to 498 billion. Now, not to be that for the citizens -- don't tell me how your leg hurt, but show me the X-ray. Here's the X-ray! What does "ino-obligation" mean? Banks are obtaining funds from abroad, in debt in the short and long term, due to the difference in interest rates, you call it interest differential, and we economists have seen a great opportunity to earn and profit, and this is why growth has jumped – investment in securities of value. In order for someone to have such a huge profit and to increase the investment of paper from a billion to 75 billion to 151 billion, someone had to lose because money was not a matter created from nothing. She knows how to lose track in interesting ways. He's got that clue. He's got it. He's got it. The fair and responsible authority of penalties and who have lost their money trails and we hope that such a government will someday and will establish these money routes, but these results, this x-ray, do not contribute to the independence of setting targets, which are called the target of inflation, because you have not achieved, and you have gotten used to banks, which our people would say, not to do their jobs, but to do the safest business – trading with you. What did you have to do with repo papers? It says in your report, says - the state has converted dinar funds to reduce budget deficits. Why the state has a budget deficit are special issues. It is said that the state sold NBS 150m euros on three occasions, so 450m euros. Secondly, the foreign exchange inflow based on privatization of department stores has affected the growth of dinar liquidity of over 30 billion dinars. The recapitalisation of banks based on which there was a significant growth in capital amounted to 114.7 billion dinars. So, we were selling, we were taking money in privatisation, the state was acting distasteful and selling foreign exchanges. She created for you the excess of dinars that you had to withdraw with such repo paper, to pay interest and to lead to such a course, which with 78 dinars in 2004, came to 103 dinars and to spend a billion 118m euros on some course control. Do you understand, while you're nodding my head and giving me the right to share the correct data, the effects of this? We sold real factories, raised banks that it's better to trade with NB, it's the safest, not to give credit to citizens and businesses to do something, to buy apartments, to start some jobs, and we spent some of the foreign reserves, spent money on privatisation. We have a high course. We have high inflation, and you're still looking for independence, asking that your salaries be set in line with these banks you're under pressure from, but you won't hear a deal from your government and ask MPs to vote for a bill like this. Well, whoever votes for this bill will be prepared to bear the burden of responsibility before your future effects and the foundations you have set for this policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41510	16 minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. He's not in the O.R. National MP Vladan Jeremic, followed by MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41511	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the NBS Law is presented as the most important thing that the NBS will have in the future independence and independence in the work. What's going on here as a logical question is does that mean that so far, not all of it has been independent and independent? Perhaps this dilemma could resolve the data, what has even been published on the NBS site, that this institution is already very much working on the application of so-called Basel standards, the standard of capital adequacy regulations, which in the most direct way restricts the credit activity of banks, which in general terms means only further destruction of the economy. Otherwise, this regulation brings "Bunk of International Settings" based in Switzerland, Basel, which is a private bank. It even has its own private guard and over which no government in the world has any authority, so this is just a contribution to what independence and statehood is actually about. If it is known that at that, some kind of basic definition of monetary policy, namely the work of the NBS, it should manage money and interest rates in order to achieve a low, stable and predictable inflation rate, thus creating an ambience for achieving sustainable economic development and employment growth, managing money and loans to the NBS affecting public confidence in dinar, making it easier for businesses, citizens, making business decisions and planning of the future and taking care of the value of national currency, thereby contributing to the growth of citizens' living standards, then there are several things that I would like to point out to this opportunity, which they say is not quite so. It is known that the NBS has been implementing the so-called targeted inflation regime since September 2006 and just over two years, up until the beginning of 2009, as a guideline for adapting the degree of monetary policy restrictiveness served this basic inflation. This implies monitoring the prices formed on the market, and what was used to justify such a decision was that monetary policy instruments could not affect the prices that are administratively determined. This translated meant that NBS practically did not want to take responsibility for changes in electricity, oil, transport, bread, milk and other products, which basically makes up almost half of the total inflation. Even if there is some justification for such a decision, why accept responsibility for something the Government decides, it is clear that in this period, as regards the NBS, and this monetary strategy was a better decision to target this total inflation, because this way of conducting monetary policy, in the opinion of the good part of the professional public, has certain shortcomings, above all that the essence of the strategy of targeted inflation, when total inflation is significantly greater than basic inflation. And what's a particular problem is that the NBS was not particularly convincing when it explained that it was successfully performing the task, because unlike the citizens' statistical parameters, the economy on its skin in everyday life could feel that there was a significantly higher price increase than what the NBS published. Secondly, if this fact is accepted that the NBS only dealt with basic inflation, it means practically that the government had no responsibility for its prices, nor the obligation to make sure of how much it would increase them. What is the basic problem, and as regards the sphere in charge of the NBS, is the problem of the controlled price and what is worrying is that in the first half of this year, the government almost reached a maximum in terms of percentages of the prices controlled. If these regulated prices are a basic problem, it is also clear that the reference rate should not be high, i.e. to be as high as it is now. It is that it has been shrinking, but at present it is something that is unsustainable, because the reference interest rate has little or no impact on regulated prices, and therefore in conditions where inflation generators are also affecting total inflation. On the other hand, that's what we've talked about countless times already, is that the height of that reference interest rate is also the contribution to making loans more expensive and that the state has to pay high interest on its vault records. However, what is the most significant problem in this whole story is certainly the fact that the business banks de facto control the Serbian banking system and, what is dangerous, carry out a mission of dinars beyond the public knowledge, even against the laws governing this area. I will use this opportunity to quote Voja Bjelica, a professor at the Faculty of Economics, otherwise former president of the National Bank of Serbia Council, who pointed out that the credit activity of the banks allows the bank to create money by monetizing its activity, and the most frequent and most frequent case of money creation is when the bank approves a loan to one of its committees and adds more from the point of view of the money creation function – whether the credit is approved in books or in cash. So on this basis, it is to conclude that business banks themselves are making money, whether it's a book or a non-cash word, and this makes them emission institutions, in the same way as central banks, with the difference that a different kind of money is being broadcast. Whether such money is put into circulation unconditionally or as a loan is now a second question, but it is obviously in their interest to base itself solely on loans because interest is being poured into their pockets, and practically both business and citizens are becoming dependent on commercial banks. This is one example of how in the most direct way it affects economic flows and citizens' living standards, because they, I'm talking about these banks, determine who can and under what conditions they can get loans, whether they can get them at all, for what purposes, etc. If, by any chance, they stop the credit expansion, it is clear that the economy would shoot at all the stitches because the debts with the corresponding interest still stand as one huge ballast, and there are no new service loans. The fact is that this case that I've been talking about is quite devastating to society because we have the possibility that even through all the laws that follow this area we come to the conclusion that one of these situations doesn't even mention or acknowledge its existence. Even in this law on the National Bank of Serbia, Article 53(2) states that the National Bank of Serbia has the exclusive right to issue bills and coins in the Republic of Serbia. There is no mention of any non-cash, i.e. that book or banking money that dominates the liquid dinar mass. Also, the legislator ignored a very important fact about the existence of this so-called third kind of money, whose broadcasting is engaged in someone else. There's an attempt to cover it up in a bank law in one way, but we're witnessing an actual situation in the functioning of this system. What is also important is that there are three priorities in the National Development Strategy by 2012. The first priority is to create an investment environment for attracting foreign ones, primarily greenfield investments. That means a lot of things, because this isn't just about making the profit tax rate the smallest in Europe. It's not enough, it's much more important that long-term interest someone can have. The second priority is the development of infrastructure. You have clear indicators of how much it should be invested in infrastructure development by 2012. The third priority is the knowledge needed today in the labour market. What has shown experience so far is that almost nothing has been done on this plan, and what we in the SRS have pointed out and mentioned countless times, when it comes to the conduct of monetary policy in Serbia, it is the fact that as an institution, the National Bank of Serbia, indeed, would have to be independent, independent of work, but not independent of institutions in Serbia, but, above all, of dependence, which has been evident in the last few years, by the International Monetary Fund. It should not be forgotten that an independent central bank, by logic, should bring stability into the financial system by upholding the rules rather than by making certain discretionary decisions. The law in front of MPs today was primarily meant to contain a kind of state control over the National Bank of Serbia, but also significantly different than before. Perhaps one of the solutions to such a thing was the creation of a parliamentary committee, whose most important instrument would be an internal revision of the work of the National Bank of Serbia. However, as we could see, it is not in this draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. What has been a fundamental problem so far is the absence of essential decision-making, collective decision-making and, above all, independent verifications of decisions made. As far as we are concerned, such a bill will not contribute to what is presented in public because the problems in the field of monetary policy are not covered by such a bill and we believe that fundamental changes are needed in the conduct of monetary policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41512	12 minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Zoran Nikolic has a word, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic. The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is nine minutes and 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41513	They say that nothing in life happens by chance, especially in politics, so I would only at first make one dipression and remind this Parliament, and also the governor, although I think he knows it, that today when we discuss the National Bank Act 160 years from the birth of one of the best governors of the National Bank, Mr. George Wyfert. The very fact that George Wyfert's Fund will also suggest to the government that this year may be the year George Weifert reminds of a clue that someone who is governor of the National Bank can leave in society and in the people. Mr. George Weifert was one of the first industrialists, a great industrialist, an even better and greater governor of the National Bank, and the humanity he showed, given that he was a very wealthy man, he served as an example, and he should serve as an example to all those who had a lot of money that should have little more to help. I have a question for you at first, and I'd like you to answer that question directly after I've finished my presentation. Why are you defending this law today? Why are you in this ungrateful role today to defend changes and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia? Number one, you resigned three months ago. The National Bank Council has respected your resignation. Why are you as a former governor defending a law that will have consequences for the functioning and operation of a new governor, and, certainly, you will not be? I'm really interested in what's the reason you're defending this bill today? Is it just that the President of the Republic proposes a new governor? If that is the only reason, I think that all of us, including MPs in the first place, and especially citizens, should stop fulfilling the wishes of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic and not allow him to interfere in everything and everything, because he is obviously dealing with all the issues, and he is not dealing with any of the issues that are relevant to the citizens of Serbia in the right way. Your exposure to the defense of this new proposal was brief and concise. When you resigned, you said you were only doing it for personal reasons. I have no reason to believe otherwise, and I believe that you did it exclusively for personal reasons, but in this brief speech, knowingly or unconsciously, you mentioned "independence" and "independence" 17 times, for the side and for the speech, it's a lot when you mention the word "independence" and "independence". Is that an accident? I don't think so. This law you have proposed is the best proof that independence and independence in the National Bank will be much less after the law has been passed than it has been. I think it's this law, that's the paradox of the whole debate, this new law, I believe, that's my personal opinion, one of your personal reasons why you resigned as governor, because any governor who basically holds on to himself or the function he performs, which is one of the most responsible functions, should not allow it to operate under this law. There have been shortages in the previous period. I hear representatives of the ruling coalition, or MPs, swearing to the independence and independence of the National Bank. Please, and until now, the National Bank has not fully functioned independently and independently, especially not with the newly proposed governor, Mr. Soskovic, who has been on the Economic Council of the Prime Minister for two years. Someone who is on the Economic Council of the Prime Minister should become governor of the National Bank. Mr. Cvetkovic, as his superior, will obviously issue the necessary tasks as his economic adviser when he becomes governor of the National Bank. Mr. Kasalovic of the SPS in his opening statement, as an authorised representative, also stressed the importance of the principle of independence and independence, and let's say what is happening and is directly related to the SPS, to the NBS Council. Does Mr. Nenad Vunjak sit on that council? Sit down. Is this Mr. Vunjak the head of the MP Group at the AP Assembly? Yes, it is. The new law provides strict rules on conflicts of interest and who can be in the Council and who can't. But, I'm sorry, it's been defined by the past law. And the past law has defined that no one who has a position in a political party and no one who is a national MP, no one who is a member of some local self-government, a committee member in local self-government, can be in the Council, and we have the fact that one prominent political official of the SPS, who is head of the MP group in the AP, is also a member of the Council. So much for the difficulties Mr Jelasic had in performing his duties in an independent and independent manner, and I can imagine what is going on when a new NBS executive board is formed. It is clear that the government wants to put under its paw and under its control the National Bank. We have seen this case in the 1990s and the result of such a policy. Gentlemen, I congratulate you, but I'm not happy with the fact that the lesson that we've all been through as citizens, with very tragic consequences, you haven't learned and you're ready to repeat it. That may not surprise me with my fellow SPS colleagues, but I'm very surprised at my colleagues from DS, so you, my colleagues from the DS, get my sincere congratulations. You want to put everything under control. What is tragic and what I want to tell the citizens is that the consequences of such a policy will be very bad and that is why I am not happy that we adopt such a law. Independent position of governors, decisions are made with the Executive Board, which is normally met once a month. If there is a need for urgent intervention, the decision shall be made by the Governor of the National Bank, which must be confirmed after the Executive Board. What happens if the Executive Board doesn't confirm that decision? What happens to the position and function of the governor and will the future governor, when he makes those decisions in an emergency or crisis situation, which requires urgent response, always calculate the position of the National Bank Executive Board? Well, of course. If members of political parties, above all, loyal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, sit on the Executive Board, the equation is resolved. The government of the Republic of Serbia will also manage the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Since I have to leave a certain amount of time for another colleague from the Parliament Club, I have to finish here. ) I believe that it is not by chance when in one short answer so many times the words 'independence' and'self-dependence' are mentioned. The assembly majority will vote in favour of both independence and independence to the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. The consequences of such a decision will be seen, and I am now convinced that they will not be good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41514	Nine minutes and 20 seconds were used. There are still 30 seconds left for the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot say that I look forward to the amendments and additions of the National Bank Act, but I am glad that Mr. Governor is here today in front of the MPs, and I am glad that there are some MPs who have reduced their reasoning to reading the proposals of the new National Bank law, with some reason to vote for this law because it increases the independence of the National Bank. However, I would like to discuss what the National Bank was doing in the previous period, and I was hoping that at least once as the Serbian Parliament we would discuss the National Bank Report, what the governor was doing, what the Council was doing, etc. The whole story is that the basic role of the National Bank is to protect the state, or citizens from inflation. However, it seems to me that this amendment to the National Bank Act is aimed at protecting the interests of banks, not citizens and not the economy from inflation. Just look at what the National Bank did in 2006. We will see that she has made a loss of 365m euros, which was paid from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Now I ask the governor, when he broadcast these famous short-term securities and made a loss of 365m euros, who earned that money?- I'm sorry. Were those business banks, those 30 billion dinars? Or, to answer the governor of the National Bank, with whom he competed on the market with 24 or 25% interest on short-term securities of value, since he said here after this speaker – if you want to sell securities of value, the interest must be tempting? And who are you competing with? With the economy? With citizens? In such a process, the NBS increased the price of money on the financial market both for the economy and for the citizens. I'm asking the governor of the NBS if he knows, can he answer, how does he think the economy survives with interest rates that are at least 25%, whether they're dinar or foreign? Mr. Governor, I've reviewed the balance sheets of a company, and compared to 2008, there's a 30% increase in realisation. Material and other current costs are almost identical, but has a profit, which is almost three times lower in 2009 than in 2008. I asked the question, what's the difference and from where? The answer was, we had to cover the course differences. Who lost everything there? It's lost the company. She lost the state. He's got a lower profit. Smaller income tax, corporate profit. Who profited? Banks, on course differences. Mr. Governor, let's take a look, not so far away, what was that last December of last year? The state sold 465m euros to the National Bank, I think, or 455m euros. There were dinars on the market. How does the National Bank behave? He directs these foreign exchanges into foreign reserves, and what about the money market? Is that amount of dinar covered in foreign exchanges on the market? It's not. We're coming up with the first jumps of the euro. The National Bank is silent and not interfering. He hopes that citizens coming from abroad for New Year's holidays will cover the deficit. And to make things even worse, the National Bank of Serbia is at that point persistently lowering the reference interest rate, like when you put out the fire with gasoline. How much did that cost us, Mr. Governor? Almost a billion and 200 million euros? Who? Citizens. Who profited? Banks, maybe the National Bank on course differences. An open question arises, with this amendment and the addition of the law, who is being protected here and from who? Do the National Bank, of the Government, just not see the reasons why it would protect itself from the Assembly, or are banks being protected from the National Bank? I think that's the way it is, Mr. Governor. You give up payment traffic control abroad and you let banks do it the way they want to, and it was already abuse and when you control it. Or, Mr. Governor, what does it mean to reduce the criminal policy, the criminal provisions of this law, when it comes to banks that do not comply with decisions and regulations made by the National Bank? That's what you suggested with these changes and additions. Who do you owe such gratitude to? Mr. Governor, let me ask, why is it difficult for new banks to enter the Serbian money market? Look, the Serbian market, when it comes to banks, is closed. Whatever bank she wants in, it'll take months and months of proof, so she can get permission to work. So, Mr. Governor, nice of you to say this, you may have been sitting down since the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. It is often a genetic feature and your private matter, but I can tell you, with the policy you run by the National Bank several months ago, the citizens of Serbia did not just sit down, but also run out of hair. But not because it's genetics, but because they pulled their own hair off their heads looking for solutions so they could return loans and cover the curricula, where the sole culprit of destabilization of the financial system was the National Bank of Serbia. I don't believe this law will change anything, but the National Bank will have even greater powers, so that some next governor can negotiate with his future employers, banks as easily as possible. That's what we'll talk about when there's a debate in detail and let's see. So, here, the National Bank is used to harm citizens, to make banks, and the governors are making new jobs. These are changes and additions to this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41516	Eight minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. It's available for another 35 seconds. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. After that, the People's MP Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the public days before, great interest has been caused by the announced additions and amendments to the NBS Act. These changes and additions are presented as something to strengthen the position of NBS. However, if that had not happened with the governor's resignation, it is likely that this bill would not have been on the agenda of this current session, which is otherwise an extraordinary session. Now, when we talk about the Central Bank, we need to look briefly at the economic reality in Serbia. Without prejudice to the need for independent decision-making by the Central Bank, however, we cannot view the National Bank and monetary policy as very separate from the overall economic policy. The previous decade was marked by a privatisation process which, we all witnessed, was carried out in a very bad way. Everything worth it was sold for nothing. Companies that have been in a bad situation and are promised recovery have experienced fate, that, instead of reviving production, workers are fired, and the locks are placed on the gates. While there was this privatisation revenue, it was different. A non-domestic government could survive thanks to these revenues, whose largest share was poured into the budget and was going into current consumption, rather than being invested in the creation of new capacities and new jobs. For years, the public sector only took as much as it needed and did not invest again. Budgetary users are used to having to be for them, regardless of the situation in the real sector. For years, they have had new interventions from the economy and, instead of the state serving as a business partner with the economy and providing it with the most optimal conditions of subjugation, it has used its position of power and has increasingly taken advantage of it. This state's behaviour, according to the Association of Employers of Serbia, led to the participation of public spending in Serbia's product unit being the highest in Europe. Years ago, imports are far larger than exports. The destruction of production was necessary because it corresponded to one circle of people, who hold everything in their hands. It is a circle of very powerful people, who also have an impact on the formation of economic policy and who are in close contact with members of the government. The same people are asking their interests to be above all else. They also want to influence monetary policy, as part of the overall economic policy, by affecting foreign exchange and dinar interventions through their people in power. It is constantly mentioned that Serbia has a high level of foreign reserves and is increasingly insistent that foreign reserves be spent on defending the exchange rate of dinars, i.e. to be sold on the interbank foreign exchange market. There is a high level of foreign reserves, and no one mentions obligations to business banks, old foreign exchange savings and the need for guarantees for new foreign savings. When we consider all this, we see that foreign reserves aren't exactly as high as they appear. About a week ago, on June 8th, the NBS foreign reserves were around 10.7 billion euros. The data I have is from March and refers to the net foreign reserve, then the net foreign reserves were 6,18 billion euros. Since the beginning of the year, we have heard this, a billion and 188.5m euros have been sold in the international banking market to prevent daily oscillations of domestic currency. Now, in June of the month, there are really high daily amounts to be sold. On June 4th, a record 100m euros was sold, and 83m euros on June 7th, while 20m more was sold the next day, June 8, which means 103m for only two days. From day to day, it is confirmed that the foreign exchange market needs more and more foreign exchanges, but those who are the biggest buyers are kept as the biggest secret. Serbian citizens are very interested in the most profitable banks, whose interests are still represented in this story? The reason for the growing demand will also be because there are obligations for enterprises to be regulated abroad. 'By the end of the year, foreign bank and company obligations amount to 2.8 billion euros and countries 398m euros. It is important to point out that loans used to support foreign reserves are taken from the IMF. The loans are paid by all taxpayers in Serbia and because all citizens participate in the payment of these loans, they should and should know for whose interests the money is spent. Otherwise, for this purpose, the IMF approved a 2.9 billion-euro stand-by arrangement for Serbia until April 2011. On a recent visit to the IMF Serbia mission, it was granted a new withdrawal of 380m euros. The conditions set by the IMF are well-known. No salary increases, no pensions, but that's why there's an increase in budget deficits. Those who usually have the least and can barely survive will be further humiliated by someone so-called. Help, and someone calls it bonuses. It is bided at 5,000 dinars, and the prime minister has given us the opportunity to hear that the government is in no way able to reach consensus on the criteria that will be shared. By the way, these are funds from the profits of public enterprises and it is the amount of 6.5 billion dinars. What I'm talking about is a comparison with the intention of seeing the outcome of the talks with the IMF mission. The poorest, more and more from day to day, by 5,000 dinars, and the amounts I've already mentioned will go to foreign reserves, and then spending foreign reserves on the interests of those who have an inappropriate amount. Perhaps Mr. Governor of the National Bank has also received the impression that it is already very rude to continue with such actions that the government of the Republic of Serbia insists on. And it's easy for the government to find excuses for its behaviour -- an economic crisis, a much larger drop in dinars would have a negative impact on the population standard, purchasing power would have fallen. There's no excuse! Long-term non-domestic behavior is what resulted. Many citizens of Serbia are on the verge of endurance. The fact is that the objectives of the Central Bank can often be contrary to the objectives of the government's economic policy. In an explanation for the adoption of this law, it was written that the main objective of central banks is price stability, while the government's economic policy is the most frequent increase in employment, economic growth, living standards. These targets cannot be seen separately. If the functioning of a country rather than its total collapse is to be achieved, it is necessary to balance it as much as necessary. Due to lack of time, because my colleagues have a lot to say, I will briefly look back on the main objections that the SRS Parliament Club had and that have shown in the light of the amendments to the Amendments to the Amendment Act and the Supplements to the NBS Act. We'll discuss this more in detail when there's a discussion in detail. Otherwise, the SRS Parliamentary Club submitted 42 amendments. Among other things, we have suggested that the number of vice governors be precisely defined, that the term of office of governor, vice governor and members of the Council be maintained for five years, that the National Assembly should continue to confirm the Statute of the NBS, because under this law it is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly and is responsible for its work, and this proposal wanted to avoid the approval of the Statute by the National Assembly. In addition, this bill aims to avoid the way the Executive Board works being governed by the Statute of the NBS, which would be established by the National Assembly. He wanted the Executive Board to bring the Rules of Procedure itself. And here we had one amendment intervention. The position of the SRS is that when deciding on an equal number of votes, the vote of the governor cannot be decided but that all votes are equivalent. Also, we have suggested that a representative of the Government may attend the sittings of the NBS Executive Board. This would in no way harm the Central Bank's independence, and the government responsible for economic policy would allow it to take timely measures for its responsibilities. We've had objections when it comes to NBS assets, but we'll discuss all of this in more detail when there's a debate on the agenda in particular. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41518	Ten minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, let me inform you that part of today's session, starting from 12.30 pm, from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly, will be followed by a group of students of the High Technical School in Belgrade and that: Marija Stančić, Vladimir Bursac, Milos Marković, Ana Kastavarac, Milan Spasojević, Vesko Ćirović, Milko Mandić, Marko Mićović, Ljubomir Vukadinović, Nikola Dodos and Nenad Radaković. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia! The word has been given by MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in the light of the law, further approximation of the provisions of the EU Treaty and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, the main objective, and in particular the provisions of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, and then the solemn phrases – given the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia to join the European Union in particular in the declaration of 9 September 2008, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and so on. The governor also said on Thursday that one of the main objectives of this law is the same as it was given in an explanation, a kind of reputation for the European Central Bank. In this context, the question arises, in particular, how it is possible to highlight this as one of the main objectives, if I am not mistaken, in addition to the Central Bank's independence, if Serbia is not a member of the eurozone or, more specifically, in Serbia, at least not officially applied as an official currency. This is very illogical, given that not all EU members have applied the euro as an official currency and how significant it shows that the European Central Bank Executive Board does not have a representative of the United Kingdom just because it does not accept the euro as a single coin. Of course, she asked to have a representative there, but it was rejected. I'll focus exclusively on the law, the governor certainly knows, there's a French town called Le Blanc where masses and masses of people go and apply francs. So much trust in the euro is in this moment. Also, I will not talk more widely about Angela Merkel's statement in the Bundestag since 19 May 2010, that the failure of the euro is, in fact, the EU's collapse. I will not talk about the crisis in Greece, nor what is happening in Hungary, it is very much like hiding data on the budget deficit, but I will focus on this main objective, as the governor said, and that is, I say, the imitation of the Statute of the European Central Bank and the functioning of the European Central Bank. In this context, again a specific question for the governor – is the NBS's goal of making decisions in its work the same as in the work of the European Central Bank? Therefore, that decisions are made by a simple majority or, possibly, if a qualified majority is required for decisions, the decision is adopted by a pool of positive votes having to represent at least two-thirds of the subscribed capital in the European Central Bank, at least half of the shareholders. You probably know better than me that Germany is the dominant German in the European Central Bank and that according to the 2007 data, about 20% of the assets belong to Germany, if I'm not mistaken, 14% of France, the Bank of Italy 12% and the Bank of Spain about 7%. All other members of the European Central Bank are marginal, that is, fact. So, you're up for a kind of decision where, in this case, it's Germany, maybe in some future it'll be Germany, whether it'll be some privateer, like the Federal Reserve in America, where, say, Mr. Miskovic, they'll be a decisive factor in deciding in such an important institution as the NBS. You'll admit, it has nothing to do with democracy at all, it has nothing to do with functioning, it has to do with the principles on which the IMF operates, where whoever has the most resources and decides. So, favoring the rich at the heart of the poor. Then, the Executive Board of the European Central Bank has both the President and the Vice-President and four members, and four large members have one member in the Executive Board, it is more than clear who is dominant and who decides in that system, so I call it. Of course, and the biggest remark regarding the European Central Bank, which you look up to in the work, in this reasoning of the law is so stated, it is obvious to be a member of the 11th. The Statute of the European Central Bank, if I am not mistaken, in that member, and that, I would say, is a little hidden in the reasoning of the law, and you should say, that you should say what kind of democracy exists in the EU, what kind of democracy exists in the European Central Bank, is literally said that the President of the European Central Bank is elected by the European Council, which consists of heads of state and prime ministers, and not parliament, elects that president, and the role of parliament is only, I quote, 'consultations'. In fact, Parliament does not play any role in practice, except for the consultative role in selecting the President of the European Central Bank. If that's your goal, I hope it wasn't, that it was just a mistake to translate the law or something, then we're going to go to a system where the governor will be elected without parliament's involvement, elected by the government or any other body. Now, these are European standards in practice. We can talk about phrases, we can talk about the EU without an alternative, but I am responsible for saying that it is a practice, I call on the Statute of the European Central Bank and I responsibly argue that the real power, the fact that the EU power is not in Brussels, but in Frankfurt, where it is the headquarters of the European Central Bank, because the European Bank is essentially the only one who has a federal function, because it is, you know, authorized to print the euro, and there is no European people, there is neither, in fact, a legislative role, a dominant, a European Parliament, but it is the European Council that makes decisions concerning so many EU citizens. The question arises -- is the European standard that pursues this law, the election of a central bank president, as was the case with Jean-Claude Trishe, with a man who was exclusively charged with political compromise and a man who, in early 2003, was, therefore, a few months before his election on the post, officially charged, if I am not mistaken, before the French courts for corruption? If that is the standard, it should be said openly that this is something we are seeking, and you are calling for the basis of the EU Treaty law in 1992, but then it should be quoted fully, not only parts of the 1992 EU Treaty. Therefore, both Article 2 and Article 5 of that Treaty, where it insists, precisely on Germany's request and on relying on the famous decision of the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany, must exist in the functioning of the EU, the European Community, subsidiarity, i.e. To give priority to Member States in relation to EU law. We are now back on the subject of how you can imitate the European Central Bank if all EU members are not part of the Eurozone and if Serbia has not accepted the euro as an official currency. I think these are some illogicalities that appear and that you need to clarify, not avoid the answer. The second main objective of this law is, in your words and under Article 2 of this Act, the independence and independence of the NBS. There's nothing controversial about it. We will, of course, support it in that part that the NB should be independent, but then the question is asked – how is it possible that in a letter to the president of the National Assembly since 31 May 2010, which was followed by this law, you wrote and signed the following: "In view of the commitments made by the Republic of Serbia by the signing of the financial arrangement with the IMF, in the drafting of the Amendment and the addition of this law, the recommendations of the institution have also been taken into account." What does that mean? That means you're basically admitting that you're addicted to an international institution, that's the fact that you wrote here and the fact that you've been avoiding mentioning in your appearance since 11 June. In this regard, the question arises, in Article 81 of the Amendment Act, Article 77 of the basic law remains that the Republic of Serbia is the owner of the NBS's total capital – how is it, then, possible that there is independence and independence from the Republic of Serbia, which is owned by the entire capital of the NBS and which is provided for in Article 82 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements, which amends Article 78 of the basic law, that the losses of the NBS cover the state or are covered by the budget or are covered by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to be perfectly clear, for example, by Mr Dusanic, therefore, how independent of the state of Serbia, even though it is foreseen in the law to cover losses by the budget, which is not independent of the IMF? This is also, in a legal sense, a kind of absurdity for which there is no excuse. There were speeches, and that's particularly controversial, in Article 91. The draft law on amendments and additions is passed by a new member of 86, with some classified information. What's your secret information? Management of foreign reserves and negotiations with the IMF?- I'm sorry. I followed your presentation carefully on June 11th, and you very cleverly avoided some answers, and you said that you did not conduct negotiations with the IMF, but that you just signed a letter of intent. Please, the letter of intent is a serious 16-page document and it literally states that the NBS, which is the financial sector, is your sector, will do everything to liquidate the remaining state-owned roles in banks in Serbia. Those are your words, neither the finance minister nor the prime minister wrote it. Please, you still have a kind of communication with the IMF, I repeat, it's a letter of 3 December 2009 and there are commitments to the IMF. You can't say you have nothing to do with the IMF, that you just signed a letter of intent, because this is more than a warning fact. I don't understand how it is possible for you as an expert and as an expert to seek to liquidate state-owned equity stakes in banks and liquidate state banks in the Republic of Serbia, where foreign banks are already dominant, if we know that the Hipo Alpe-Adria has been taken over from the Austrian state, how is that possible? How is it possible that you're in favour of liquidating the government's stake, if the Americans just did, so the Fed and the finance ministry gave 20 billion dollars to City Bank, how is that possible? It's a factical nationalization. You know what the debates were like – is it consistent with Chicago School and so on. Alan Greenspen, your colleague, the president of the FedA, says the state should nationalize part of the bank. That's the trend we're going against. Also, I would mention a Russian example that in 2007, 45% of banks were in constant ownership, now 18%. You also know that the two largest Russian banks of Sberbank and VTB Bank are state-owned. I don't get it. I would ask you to answer me, but please be specific about not avoiding the answer and about the letter of intent and about the IMF and this liquidation of the state stake, which is quite the opposite of modern movements in both the West and Russia. So much, I'd like you to answer these questions somehow. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41520	Thirteen minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41521	Thank you. One statement and one joke. The finding that I have 35 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group and that, given the quality of the law, it is obviously more than enough. Secondly, the presentation of Mr. Governor on Friday, when he spoke about the state of finance of the Republic of Serbia, reminded me directly of that joke when a man falls from 20 floors and on the fifth floor realizes that everything is still fine. I'm afraid, Mr. Governor, that this country's finances are just as high as the fifth floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41522	The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, followed by Parliament MP Milorad Buha, and he is the last to be reported on the list of speakers. People's MPs want the other way around. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha, then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, and he is the last reported speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41523	Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable for Serbian citizens for the SRS to enter cosmetic changes, in an area that is a very important social area and which must by the current authorities offer solutions to the current problems. In the SRS' view, what we resent the current government is a lack of strategy in the area of the financial system. We have witnessed in the last ten years of huge problems, which are the result of an overwhelming lack of strategy. What does strategy mean? This is a problem not only in the area of finance, but also in the area of privatisation and other social areas where there is no strategy, and then the current power from case to case solves a particular problem in the way it does, and the negative effects of the lack of strategy are visible. Instead of the NBS offering a comprehensive strategy, to draw up a new bill on NBS, a law on banks, a law on banks has been announced for several years, but a real shift, there is no new law. It is a similar situation, and as far as financial areas are concerned, the law on insurance companies, the law on the stability of the financial system, may be the most important law. I ask the outgoing governor - when will we get the stability law of the financial system? Without it, we won't be able to solve these problems that are now current. It's not just an NBS assignment. That's the government's job, but that's not what we're thinking. What else does the SRS hold against? These cosmetic changes won't bring in a newspaper that will make a difference in the financial system. Our financial system is broken. It was broken in 2002 when we abolished state banks, when foreign banks came and we allowed foreign lobbying circles to do what they wanted in the financial system. Our financial system is monopolised. Banks that came on the side, mostly Western European banks, monopolized the entire system and credit policy and position in the entire banking system and current moves made by foreign bankers, when I say, are conditionally foreign banks, are domestic banks whose founders are foreign banks, but with small capital that they brought to our market. They got a huge financial market, allowed them by financial domestic authorities, mostly by the NBS, to do whatever they want. Today we have a current situation that our bank balances are year by year, and especially after 2006, they grow at a rate of 30% to 40%. I will now read how the bank's balance sheet activity grew – 2006 – 1.169 billion, 2007 – 1.564 billion, 2008 – 1.777 billion, 2009 – 2.160 and in the first quarter of 2010 – 2.337 billion. A percentage increase that is positive. It's invested in the population, it's invested in the economy. But what's unfavourable? The following is unfavourable – that the capital of the banks, what was to be shared between citizens, businesses, states and banks, also grew from 25% to 40%. This is how, in 2006, – 216 billion, 2007 – 308 billion, 2008 – 420 billion, 2009 – 447 and 470 billion in the first quarter of 2010. The result of capital growth and the adequateness of capital representation relative to the total balance sheet mass is far above European and world standards. So where standard 12 is now we have 20 or 21. That's great from the aspect of financial security, but what's negative? It is negative that we have managed to achieve all this with the highest interest rates in Europe. The SRS has repeatedly criticised this policy of the NBS, or the position of the NBS that allowed foreign banks, I have to use this harsh name - foreign banks, because of the incorrect financial policy of these banks. Now I'm going to read NBS data for 2008, where it's said that the average interest rate on short-term bank loans was 57.40%. Look, NBS data - 57%! Tell me, Governor, does anyone in the world have interest like this right now? That's your data. And you allow it and you call it the security of the banking system?- I'm sorry. It's a direct drag of banking hands into citizens' pockets and into the pockets of the economy. Why do we have 60,000 blocked companies today? It's because of this interest. Why do we have problems in the credit return system today? Because they're drastically high interest rates. That was allowed by the NBS. It was allowed by the Serbian government to act in the normal contractual relations of the bank to citizens and businesses. What else is tragic about all this? It's tragic that when you contract a bank, you use tricks like matches. Contracts you can't get until you get to the bank, which are not transparent, which aren't on business banks' websites, but when you get there, when they see that you've already entered into a contractual relationship with the bank, then the bank gives you a contract that's usually from 12 to 25 pages. You can't take that out of the bank until you sign it. No one is able, especially citizens who are not educated in financial and legal terms, to learn all the provisions positive or negative from the contractual relationship between the bank and the clients. On the other hand, these contracts are printed so small that most citizens can't read it. They're speculative bank moves, they're the Bank's loan moves due to the amount of interest to be agreed on. All that the National Bank knows. You had, governor in resignation, dozens of complaints from the citizens and what did you do? You've invited citizens to sue the bank, and you're gonna give them legal aid. It's a disgrace to you, it's a disgrace to the NB, it's a disgrace to the current government – that you allow speculative contracts, interest agreements, that our citizens, our economy enters such contractual obligations and then you promise legal aid. Banks like that need to be driven out of our market. Every monetary government advocates a stability in which there is no interest. This is classic interest, and you keep your mouth shut and promise legal aid. We also need to focus on the current events surrounding the Saric affair. The current government acknowledged that Saric had washed through his financial transactions through the financial system of the Republic of Serbia about a billion and 350m euros in various activities, in purchase from agricultural enterprises, businesses, restaurants, hotels, motels, etc. It's impossible no one noticed this dirty money. The banking system in Serbia is so configured that no major financial transaction can be noticed, and in particular it had to be seen by banks, including the NB. Almost every fourth penny that's been through the financial system for the past two years has been from a dirty sphere! What did the governor of the NB do? What did the bank control authority do to prevent what was going on, to prevent such activities as you knew, and you know exactly what banks were doing? What did you, going to the governor, do to punish all those banks that participated in these dirty jobs, and what did you do as a NB through the control system to remove all the negative consequences, to point out to other competent authorities that they should take repressive measures in terms of stopping these flows? You didn't do anything. That's embarrassing. The dirtyest affair in the last ten years is "Afera Saric"! Behind this affair is the current power and power in the NBS! When we talk about the liquidity of the banking system, we must say, and you have boasted that our banking system is liquid, that it is very well set up, that banks are full of money, but it is problematic that certain flows of these pairs have been directed, not by the interests of the government, not by the interests of the NB, interests of the economy and citizens, but by the interests of business circles that shareholders in these banks and the interests of the banking system. So the banks in the period when it was interesting to invest in the economy invested in the economy, the moment when the credit system was saturated, then they switched to funding securities from value, when your interest was, somewhere, up to 26%, now they're significantly lower, which corresponds to certain conditions, perhaps certain competition among banks. However, the NB has made a disastrous move for which management must be held, because it paid such high interest, because it has been lost since 2005-2006 precisely because of such financial transactions and because it has made it possible to enrich the banking system and banks through such enormously high interest rates. So, what happened to the economy? Instead of focusing 90% of the banking system, banking assets on the economy and the population, to prevent banks from getting quality funds through financing quality business moves, to get funds in time, to get funds without huge administration. We did the same thing to the population, and of all that, the banks had huge profits. In 2006, the profits of the banking system were about 16 billion dinars, about 200m euros. There was no economic crisis at the time. While the entire economic system was in huge trouble, banks had, I'd say, a satisfactory profit. In 2007, the profit rose to 21 billion dinars and in 2008 to 29 billion. Last year, something fell, but compared to the blockade of the entire banking system, it's satisfactory, just because they can work in the banking system what they want and what they want. There's no NBS control function. Now that we're talking about control, we can say there's no control. That's how you set it up. Why isn't he in control? In 2007, there were 24 controls, 16 infringements were filed and five requirements for the launch of a commercial offence. In 2008, there were seven criminal charges and six applications for a business offense. In relation to everything that they've done to citizens and businesses, and the interest rate, it's negligible; what we care about, we get into jobs like we want, where the bank's benefits and profits are, we know that the NB won't intervene, there's no sanctions, and then everything goes the way it goes. Now a little bit around the dinar course. A dozen or five days ago, we had a terrible problem, a great interest in foreign exchanges. In an interview, the finance minister said the dinar course was blamed by speculators. On the second day, the candidate for governor says that everything is done by law and that there are no illegal stores. Governor, you must and you must then come out openly in the media and make it clear – whether these are speculative actions of individual entities and who these subjects are, and whether they were done in accordance with the law. At no time did you present the data of those who must be on NB sites – who trades, who buys and whether it is legal or not. Who's buying? They buy the banks, buy the ones who have the money. They're banks and they're importers. And they're the cause of all moving up or down. You don't have that influence. You don't keep the banks under your control. Why? These are banks that entered the banking system due to the lobbyist positions of individual authorities in 2002, 2003 and 2005. You were in that system back then. These are the banks you brought in, which were brought in by the current government. You have no influence on regulation of relationships in the field of course. They come out when they have the money, they buy as much as they need. It's the same with the importer. There is no central position of the National Bank. I'd be done with this. This is the law of cosmetic nature. He's unacceptable to the SRS and we won't vote for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41524	18 minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Time is available for 12 minutes. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41525	At the end of this debate, I can only conclude that, for who knows which time, the scenarios we have designed for this agenda point have been realized by 110%. That's right, Mr. Jelasic, we were able to say everything about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Act and we were able to provoke the discussion that we now know exactly who from what positions it is. I have to tell you at first, the NBS can only be an independent organ. An independent can't. The constitution gave you no right to be independent. Why do you seek independence in the bill? And because since 2001 you are essentially independent, when I say you, I mean the NBS, so no matter who sat there and worked there. You are independent because core control over NBS has foreign banks and our entire payment system depends on foreigners. There are no payments in this country that could be made without going over one of the banks' accounts, no, and insurance companies and voluntary pension and disability funds and all public enterprises. Mr. Governor, don't bother, Article 95 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says you're only independent and you can't be independent. It's dangerous when someone who's involved in a show of politics declares himself independent. Printing money is government business, not private companies. The National Bank, by definition for central banks, is the one who guarantees a state-owned business to do state-owned work. You can't be controlled by strangers. You do, you don't hide it, you're proud of it. The National Bank can't have its own property. It only uses and manages part of the property, and property rights have the Republic of Serbia and everything that is the use and management, you do only according to the law. Your independence is surrounded by the Constitution and the law. You've been transferred to state authority. State powers are also the broadcasting of money and bank control, as you perform with the attribute of force and authority and must submit to the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. It's impossible for our National Bank to take some foreign responsibility without the National Assembly knowing it, and she doesn't know it unless she has ratified some agreement. If done, then it's your private combination, to ensure that foreign exchange reserves are abroad, and there they are, which would be a guarantee to foreign investors that if they crack this project in Serbia they can collect their claim without asking anyone. However, here came the private interests of large tycoons, so the National Bank was in debt to preserve the liquidity of four banks that were threatened by a tycoon, which entered the state business. That's not to be done, no one supported it here in the National Assembly. The subject has never been opened in the National Assembly. As a result of that policy, what the SRS MPs were talking about appeared. The NBS can't imitate the IMF, not by organisation or by business it does. The National Bank must not be independent, it must also bear the responsibility for economic policy in the country in which it is responsible for the financial system. You could never hear from the discussion of a member of the SRS telling you that you should submit to the Government or the President of the Republic, but you must find the right dimension. The National Bank cannot record the positive results statistically without the people dying on the street and saying -- it is the government of the Republic of Serbia's fault. She's guilty of a lot of things. How is it possible that the only winners in the last five, six years would be foreign banks? Only they made the transfer from Serbia. Serbia in crisis, before the global financial crisis prevailed, and banks amount to capital from here. By the way, in the first two years since they started working, they've made their own equity out of current business. Just to remind you, if the Hipo Alpe-Adria bank can be with the majority of the Austrian state, and it operates on our market here, why are you driving the state out of the banking system? You don't have payment control. If you ask the question – what was the state of the accounts, in order to establish something, you say – we are not interested in it at all. Well, who's gonna be interested? I was joking here in my own time, so I said, "Rajffeisen" bank in Pristina moves Raiffeisen bank to Austria, it transfers to this bank in Belgrade -- money washed, mob money washed! The National Bank didn't see anything, she doesn't want to see anything. In this country, they launder mob money! I quote what the state says - a billion and 350m euros washed by mob couples through the payment system of the Republic of Serbia! And no one at the National Bank knows about it, but they are calling for a law on the prevention of money laundering, an agency, and up until a few months ago this agency was run by Bogavac, a member of the State Security, who went with some to look for bills and money in Cyprus! What are we talking about? Then we're surprised this is the state of affairs. Brooke and the shame, so many thousands of companies under lockdown, ahead of liquidation. What are the internal debts? They grow from day to day, they are insurmountable, and our National Bank has put its paws on every dinar and every euro. It controls and insurance companies, this assembly gives these powers, controls voluntary pension funds, controls everything. Where's the money? There's the National Bank. And are you really in control? No! No! That you were really in control, how could the AP, through its Finance Secretariat, buy in an internal procedure, a closed procedure, "Metals Bank's" actions? How? Based on the opinion of the Securities Commission, where there are members who have been left behind for several years. What are we talking about? How do we take care of the country? Then we wonder what's hitting us. You see who deployed to run these banks from abroad – the first nomenclature of ministers since 2001, has been deployed. They've got a club of businessmen, they've got this club, they've got that club. They dictate everything! 'You want money from abroad, you need it for some investments, you have to ask the National Bank, the informal centres have to say -- we can borrow so much and so much, so let them say that we already have 70% of our GDP burdened. Oh, I don't want to get into those percentages. All your percentages fall when you get out on the street, when you go to the village, and when you look at the barns. Answer the peasant how he can have a positive business and live and work at 10 acres. You have no answer, and you're talking about price stability. We all used to run away from this National Bank that only dealt with money transmission and money creation, since in one period only that money was the funds credited to the economy and, however, there were funds for the redistribution of the social product. Well, now we've got a product redistribution, but how? Through the banking system, through the financial system, which has given way to one of the eagles of untouchableness. No one can say anything and, of course, we're at a dead end now. Approved loans stand, cannot be realised. Why? Well, every single euro should turn into a dinar. When it turns into a dinar, the dance keeps going on and on. That's why the National Bank is responding that the foreign reserve effect is sold in a foreign effect to help those who dragged them into this business. I made a little joke last time, so Draginja Djordjevic is practically the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Đuric, I'm sorry. Well, yeah, where were you to control one of their loans? No, you don't care. What about the "Steam" elite?- I'm sorry. You don't care about that either. He's not interested in the tax, he's not interested in the police, he's not interested in the National Bank! And what was the subject? Money, and it's foreign currency! So many thousands of people are playing around here. So, you're different from Dafina and the Horse?- I'm sorry. There's no big difference. What is this country that hasn't matched pensions to pensioners for two years, frozen? Now they're texting me that they're getting a pension, and then all these new 5,000-dollar bills. Do you know what happens in Serbia when a man sees a new bill, but it's out of the machine? It's a pain in the ass right now. He's getting cold feet right now, and he's got some kind of negative association. So, how long's that redistribution? Rich to be richer, poor to die. I'm glad, Mr. Jelasic, that you are, at last, the first victim of organised crime in Serbia. I'm sorry they may not be, as the first victims of some who are far more guilty than you. It's your fault for the passivity, for not stopping what happened and what happened, and if you could have done it, you could have. If you were able to dissipate Karic, if you could dissipate those savage insurance companies, that means you have powers, you have instruments and you can finish the job. You didn't finish that job. You've come here completely inappropriately, under your leave, to defend the law under your resignation, and that law will essentially be a resignation. This law is an undeveloped concept. What is offered today is nothing, but it is part of the strategy – the worse, the better. The worse for the people, the better for some elite. That elite isn't in political parties, that's what I have to tell the public. These are isolated individuals who believe that with their great wealth, besides being, both the most beautiful and the smartest, they are able to do anything and everything. You need to be under control. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41526	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask, before the principled search is concluded, do they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups? MP Vlajko Senic. Time available for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41527	I shall briefly say, first of all, that the way the governor is proposed is the best and greatest progress that has happened in this law. I will illustrate this in fact, as a member of the Finance Committee, we are not the committee responsible in the Serbian Parliament to declare this law. With this bill of law, we have fully harmonised the essence and form. I would say it's important that there was an explanation, a triangle, between the Council of Governors, the Government of Serbia and the Executive Board of the National Bank. I believe that the proposal for this law must, despite the fact that, to some extent, reduce the powers of the governor himself, however, retain the institution of the governor as the manager and governor of the National Bank, which is the first among the equals, a man who must have a greater influence than the rest of the people who run the National Bank. The goal is to achieve its basic function, which is to control prices and low inflation. G17 plus will support this bill. We will absolutely insist that in the most part this law be exactly as it has arrived in the congregation procedure. Of course, we are also ready to discuss certain amendments, first of all, to those who, in some ways, correct some technical ambiguities. We really think it is important to keep the essence of this law, because, as I said, it is one step forward in determining independence and the independent position of the NBS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41528	Anyone else want a word? Proposer? (Yes) Here you go. The word has the governor, Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41529	Dear Members of the People, first I would like to thank you for all your very useful...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41530	My apologies, Governor. As for the control of the electronic panel, that's fine. Your microphone's on. Let's just see if it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41531	First, I would like to thank the MPs for all...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41532	Excuse me one more time. It's to the Technical Service of the Assembly. I'm asking the service to let us know if the governor will be able to contact us from the pay phone, because the microphone is on. Yeah, sure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41533	Is it working now? First of all, I would like to thank all the MPs for their very useful remarks regarding amendments to the NBS Act. I'm really going to try to put out the opinion of the National Bank for the most important things. As for the conflict between the government and the NBS, I can only say that it's part of the job description, it was, it was, it was, and it's likely to be in the future. Of course, what would be very important is for the NBS Council to remain strictly one supervisory authority in the future, and in no case is one governing body. One thing is certain, we will follow that principle when we give our opinion of any objections, or any amendments. As far as the regime is concerned, I want to explain here that when we talk about the regime, which we are going to propose to the Executive Board, that it is determined by the Council, with the consent of the Government. We're not talking about one particular course level here, we're talking about, and in the future, only the regime, which is currently managed by fluctuations, which I don't think provides enough space for now, as far as achieving our basic goal, which is stability of price. First of all, I'm the one who advocates that laws should be passed to people. But I think that this amendment to the law and how important it is, first of all, because after this law, most likely, there is the appointment of a new governor. As far as borrowing from the IMF is concerned, I just want to say that from 2.9 billion, a billion and 300 million have been withdrawn so far, and that when it adopts the programme, or the fourth revision and the board of the IMF, instead of possible, close to 400 million Serbia will most likely withdraw only 70 million, since the level of foreign reserves allows us not to go at the original pace, as regards borrowing. Most likely, the total debt amount should not exceed a billion and 500 million since over a billion and 500 million states are paid, or the National Bank, two percent higher. That means that instead of 1.3% about 3.3%. And we're really going to do everything we can to keep this increased debt from happening. As for the one who spent how much and about the foreign reserve, let's remind ourselves that from the amount spent, and about the foreign reserve, we're talking about a billion and 200 million. Out of those billions and 200 million, from the end of last year until today, the NBS bought 500 million from the government, which it later placed on the market. Of the part about borrowing from the IMF, it amounts to only 700 million, but the main goal is to remind ourselves, achieve and maintain price stability. As for consumer prices, in May, they are only 3.7%. As for the Greek script, I think we've talked enough about it. And as for the finding as much as it can be spent on defending the course, therefore, certain categories are also foreseen by the IMF Memorandum, which does not mean that they can't possibly be revised, but one thing is certain, the sum put on the Memorandum provides us with more than enough space to achieve our basic goal. As for the relationship of the National Bank, the Government, as far as Mr. Gece Kona is concerned, I'm sorry that the lady in question is not here, I'm wearing a watch, but I'd probably give her a present today, because today it's about 2010, a lot of things have changed over the last 80-90 years and about who's who's who's "who's here, who's wearing water," what the National Bank is doing, what's the goal, one thing's for sure, we can boast that, as far as the transparency of our work is concerned, we're certainly one of the most transparent, probably and for that we were so much in the midst of criticism. It is known exactly when the NBS sold foreign exchanges, when it sold on the market, how much it sold on many other things and related to interest rates, indeed, I think it is very good that MPs also have the exact data. As for quoting certain people, whether it's Milton Friedman, if it's about Mr. Gligorov, we'd probably use similar people, but certainly all their quotes just confirm everything that the NBS did. As for the MUP, i.e. passport, I am responsible for telling you that at the end of 2006, the National Bank did not take over, we did not take over all the equipment from the MUP for free, but, of course, we paid for that equipment to travel with the blue passport to the EU today and today. As for the securities of value, who got and who was losing from the fact that we only learned from Milton Friedman, we withdrew the excess liquidity, which reached over a certain time period of 150, 160 billion dinars, the only thing that we got from it was citizens, because if we hadn't withdrawn inflation then it would have been far, far higher than it was under conditions, I stress, which we achieved by pulling the extra money. As for the BIS – 'Banke for International Alignment', just to remind the esteemed MPs that the institution was founded in 1930 and the NBS is also a member today, that is, the owner of the institution. As far as Weifert is concerned, of course, I don't want to compare myself to him, or else, he ruled for 26 years. Which is why I'm here today -- it's only because I care about the National Bank, the law on the National Bank of Serbia, and I also care about independence and independence. That's why it's been mentioned so many times in my opening statement. Whoever earned the value of paper, I replied earlier, so they earned only citizens, since we also succeeded through this mechanism to reduce the amount of money in circulation and to achieve a much lower rate of inflation. What did those interest rates line up with? Of course, only by inflation, because I doubt when inflation is two digits or something more that anyone is willing to buy these securities at an interest rate of 5-6%. As far as licensing is concerned, just to remind ourselves, the National Bank issued one license two years ago and the last license we issued for the Greenfield investment was the Moscow Bank. As for (already short) what it is that the National Bank has achieved, however independent of everything, of this crisis, we have achieved one increase in the volume of credit. Today, we have no exchange rate at the annual level one increase in the volume of loans primarily by legal persons above 10%. We also achieved that, thanks to the high adequateness of capital, thanks to the high liquidity of the banking sector, the taxpayer, the government should not have made any single dinar for the stability of the banking sector, unlike other countries. The smooth functioning of the foreign exchange market was also ensured. Behind every devisor, or behind any purchase of foreign exchanges by banks, are their clients. I think that although in these difficult conditions, we have proved that this is the best way to ensure the stability of foreign reserves, as well as the smooth functioning of that same foreign exchange market. I do not want to go into the details of how the European Central Bank works, to what extent we took it as an example, one thing is certain, it will still take some time for the National Bank to think about it in what way and which will be the most likely future law that will introduce us into the European Central Bank, as well as the European Monetary Union, since all of this, right now, depends primarily on politics. The Financial Sector Stability Act, currently under the Ministry of Finance, is the same as justifying negotiations and talks with the World Bank. Just to remind ourselves, the capital of the banks belongs not to the debtors, does not belong to the depositors, but belongs exclusively to the owners, and so far the owners are almost everyone, everything they have earned, everything they have used to increase their capital left in Serbia. As for the interest rates mentioned here, yes, there was one single bank that reported to us in statistics. If you go below your current account today, within the EU you will hardly pay less than 25-20% at the annual level in euros. This number was then corrected based on our conversation with the banks, obviously there was one problem here regarding their reporting. As far as dirty business is concerned, and who buys foreign exchanges, just as it was said, there is a special law for it. Some 20 people, literally, are constantly combing the balance sheet of banks, as far as their payment transactions are concerned, to make sure that everything is in accordance with the laws of the bank. All that is announced here about how much the application has been filed, there is much more to it, but these reports that are in this report, which are listed, relate exclusively to the stability and insolvency of the banking sector, and in no case to our payment traffic control. And it's just that, really, for the end of the day, as long as printing money was a government job, just to quote one of the outstanding remarks, it was hard to calculate all of those zeroes that were after each number. So printing money isn't a government job, but printing money is a Central Bank job. And the National Bank is not in charge abroad, even though the National Bank will have its own property. It is known exactly that Serbia ultimately guarantees for the National Bank. And, once again, just to underline that the banks did not amount to capital, but the total amount of money in most parts remained here in Serbia and therefore a strengthened capital base, which also contributed to the stability of the financial sector. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41534	I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We're finishing our morning work for today. I've been setting a break for an hour. We continue the session at 14.40 p.m. by discussing a joint general search of the 7th and 8th points of the agenda. Thank you. [[After break – 14.55]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our session in the afternoon. Notification of the invited to the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for a joint single review of the draft decisions and the 7th and 8th agenda, in addition to the representatives of promoter Dragan Sutanovac, Defence Minister and Ivica Dacic, first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, that the sittings also attend Dusan Spasojevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Defence Ministry and Milorad Peric, head of the defence ministry. In agreement with the Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on proposals for decisions from the agenda under points 7 and 8, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 163(3) and Article 94 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and that shall be the MP's group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia MP Group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for a word, and with a number of MPs. I also inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Konstantin Arsenović, Publisher's Group of PUPS; MP Sasa Dujovic, MP group SPS-JS, MP Mico Rogovic, MP Group Advanced Serbia – SNS and MP Vlajko Senic, MP group G17 plus, MP Konstantin Samofalov, MP group – For European Serbia. On the basis of Article 85(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, and until the end of a joint single search on the agenda points 7 and 8. Given the time needed to discuss it, the assumption is that if it's even after 1800 hours, it won't be more than 40 to 45 minutes. In accordance with Article 163(3), and in accordance with Article 142(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search. We move to the 7th and 8th agenda - Proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in the multinational operations in 2010 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in the multinationalNim operations in 2010 Does the proposing representative Dragan Sutanovac, the defence minister, want to speak? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41536	I thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of legal regulations and in accordance with the Law on the Participation of Members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which took effect in November of last year, the Ministry of Defence in co-operation with the Ministry of Interior has drawn up a proposal for an annual plan, as well as a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2010. I would like to stress that our country has a long tradition of participation in multinational peace missions and I will remind you that the former SFRY was one of the most important attributes of world peace until practically 1991. After decades of discontinuity, in 2002, the SRJ made a decision on participation in the East Timor Peace Mission and a new era of Serbia's relations within the UN was practically launched. So far, the Ministry of Defence has hired 181 members on peacekeeping missions, of which there were 23 women on these missions, which is 13% and is indeed one figure, given that our army is not yet fully professionalised, yet this relationship is not adequate. As I said, we were engaged in six peacekeeping missions in East Timor, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Burundi, Congo and from last year in Chad. During the aforementioned engagement, although it is extremely difficult peace missions, I must say that we did not have victims, nor was anyone injured or injured during these activities, and that is something we want to maintain as a trend in the future. I stress, however simple and easy these activities seem, they are not simple or easy, on the contrary, the most risky missions in which our country currently participates. In line with current capacities, we have made a plan for this year and two new items in this new plan are, practically, the Mission to Lebanon and Mission to Cyprus. As you know, in Chad last year, we have been participating together with the Norwegian contingent, and since this year, given that we have really made a very good impression in Chad, we are moving to this mission under the UN, with 15 new members of that mission. We will no longer be part of the Norwegian contingent that ended its mission in Chad this year. What is important is to say, we participate in almost all missions on our own, in two new missions in Lebanon and Cyprus as part of the contingents, in Lebanon as part of the Spanish contingent, and in Cyprus as part of the Slovak-Hungarian contingent. We believe that this is very important, given that the countries in which we are taking part are, as you know, prominent EU countries and very big supporters of Serbia's policy. We are particularly emphasising Spain and Slovakia. What I want, in the end, to add, given that this activity must be done as quickly as possible in the desire of the UN to really start from the first half of this year, we insisted that this material be found in parliament by emergency procedure and I am glad that it is finally here and found. I would also like to stress that the nature of these peace operations is, above all, humanitarian character, with the intention of helping to preserve peace and create conditions for normal life in areas affected by conflicts, especially under the circumstances of peacekeeping missions in which we participate with medical teams, which not only help contingents, or armies present there, but also participate to a greater extent in helping and saving the civilian population, which, as you know, is highly endangered. This time, all of these missions that we are appearing in are UN peacekeeping missions, and UN membership, which we often call upon, produces certain obligations, not just benefits. The UN Charter obliges Member States to make their armed forces and other effects available to maintain peace in the world at the invitation of the UN. We consider this to be one of the very important foreign policy activities conducted by our country, and in this particular situation, the Ministry of Defence. I am fully convinced that in this way we are returning our country to among those countries that have a very big impact in the international world, and we are going back to the map of those countries that subscribe, that is, to help global peace in the world. This decision that will be made today in parliament, and I hope that we will receive majority support, has, I say, both a political and a professional basis. The professional basis is so much that members of our army and the Ministry of Defence who have been on these missions will really have the opportunity to be interoperable, to gain knowledge and experience that cannot be acquired only in practice, but must also be achieved in real life. And the political decision is certainly made at the level of understanding and at the level of respect for what the Ministry and our country is doing, given that all the developed countries of the world, all of us friendly countries of the world are participating in peace missions. If we want their support on our international agenda, we must certainly share common challenges, risks and threats. I'm one of those people who thinks it's necessary to step out of our country's borders to preserve our country's security. I am sure and fully in favour of both President Putin and President Bush in situations where there was a terrorist accident in Beslan and the destruction of the tower, when it was said that both statesmen with their countries would protect their citizens' interests and beyond the borders of their country. Fully convinced that this is a proper policy, today, in front of you, we are proposing a plan of use and we are looking for support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41537	Before we continue our work, I would like to inform you that, in principle, an authorised representative, Marina Ragush, will be the MP for the SRS parliamentary group. Do the officials of the committees want a word? National MP Dusan Bajatovic, deputy president of the Security Committee? (No) National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee? (No) Do the People's Messengers who have given their opinion want a word? At a session of the Defence and Security Committee, opinion was set aside by a national MP, Natasa Jovanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41538	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Sutanovac, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, I voted out my opinion because of disagreements with the other members of the Committee who supported the proposals of these laws. Now I will use this time to state the position of the SRS, which we gave you when sending the first medical staff contingent to Chad, when it was discussed last year in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I must, Mr. Sutanovac, convey to you the reactions of the citizens of those who do not support you in this attitude and what they are actually asking themselves. When a Sunday newspaper last week announced to the readers that this would be on the agenda, numerous comments appeared on the website. Thirty-eight Serbian citizens commented (pardon, it's a single daily paper, I'll say, the oldest in the Balkans, you can guess which one) and those citizens are almost all of them, I think only one supported your position, and quoted one of your statements from last year, said it was not necessary for Serbia. Well, even the Chief of the Centre for Peace Operations of the Serbian Army General Staff Colonel Radivojjevic asked in an interview that he did not belong to the Yugoslav Army and he would ask himself as a citizen – and what is our army doing in these and such peace operations? You said and you said that, and you, as well as the heads of the Ministry of Defence, that this strengthens the diplomatic and every other military capacity of our country, that this is all happening under the UN's patronage and then for us Serbs, for our country, a logical question is raised. Do you, as defence minister of this country, really think that the UN, within these so-called humanitarian multinational operations, is solely protecting the interests of those countries in which the contingents of the countries that accept it, since you just said it was our obligation as members of the UN, or is there something else behind it? It's not a conspiracy theory. Yesterday, I believe that you had the opportunity to monitor the continued trial of our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, saw that he told the chairman of the council that this global military force, the NATO forces that bombed our country, were solely in the function and existence of the UN tribunal and the persecution of Serb patriots and all that they were undermining under some kind of humanitarian activity, and, on the other hand, the American objective and their strategy of protecting their security and military interests is very clear. Even last week when a new, old strategy of defence and protection of American globalist interests turned to the public Barak Obama, you were able to compare with what Bush was saying to see that it was just a different way of rhetoric, and on the other hand, they were absolutely not interested in which tribe and who was fighting the battle and what kind of slaughter was done in Chad, Darfur, in many other places in the border areas and in the poorest parts of the African continent. Even two years ago at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we debated then the escalation of the conflict between 200 tribes in Darfur that something that happens in such a way, through tribal, religious and other differences, was supported primarily by American pressures, and all in the function of their global interests, because, remember, their goal is, when they appear somewhere, like, protecting interests, to occupy a country, to bring huge economic and material benefits to themselves. You know very well that this is an unsanitary source, the question is, indeed, no one can yet define what amount of oil wealth is in Darfur, above all, the goal for the Americans and also in Chad. They don't care if Zagawa and Toba are at war between each other, what's going on, who's got a jump on their necks. It is simply a global hegemonist force that wants to conquer all those small countries and achieve its economic interest, to collect resources such as occupied our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, because of its geostrategic interests in the Balkans and above all because of the exploitation of our vast mining wealth. When we talk about the assistance and participation of our multinational forces, that is, part of the contingent that will be effective in Cyprus, you know very well, Mr Sutanovac, that last year in marking 35 years since the occupation of the northern part of the island and Greece, which is a NATO member, has made it clear that NATO is applying different arches. Do you know between Turkey and Greece, when it comes to division within the NATO Pact and relations between Americans and their Western allies, that it always outweighs what is on the side of Turkey, and not on the side of Greece, which is trying to explain to the whole world, although the EU member has now fallen economically, that it is an occupation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41539	Five minutes, thank you. Before we continue our work, I would like to inform you that an LDP MP for points 7 and 8 of Natasa Micic is authorised. Does MP Jadranko Vukovic, who has issued his opinion, want a word? (No) Does MP Petar Jojic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? (No) I ask, do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? Please sign in, MP Konstantin Arsenović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41540	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in the multinational operations in 2010, as well as a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2010. In voting day, we'll vote for these decisions. What is particularly affecting our position is that decisions are in line with the Constitution and the Law on the Use of the Army of Serbia, and these are peace operations within the UN forces. This continues with the tradition of the participation of our armed forces in UN-based peacekeeping operations, and which is very important, almost at all locations, except for one, the situation is stable without the elements of the threat to the security of the engaged forces, but also where there are certain problems, there are no elements of the endangerment of the lives of our members who will be engaged in peacekeeping operations. These are the additional reasons why we will support these decisions and, in order to avoid debt, we fully support the reasons given and what the Minister of Defence and the reasoning given under the draft decision has said, I would like to conclude this, with another conclusion that we will vote for these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41541	Since the time of the authorised representative, a minute and 45 seconds have been used. Natasa Micic, the LDP parliamentary group's authorised representative, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41542	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP Group will support these two proposals for decisions, one concerning the Annual Plan of Participation of the Army in multinational operations and the other concerning the decision itself on that participation. As for timing, maybe we're too late. Perhaps these proposals, given the beginning of the missions themselves, should have been on the agenda before. But, okay. It's important that today we have a chance to discuss them. LDP has a chance to support that. However, what is not good, which we do not like in the proposals themselves, is the fact that the mention of the NATO alliance is absolutely avoided. True, the Partnership for Peace is mentioned, but not NATO. This is one of the priorities of our policy, the LDP considers it due to the acceleration of European integration, it is good that we have ratified the SAA, but if we really want to speed up European integration we need to actively participate, namely to decide that this country finds the strength and will to join the most powerful Western alliance, NATO, and not to ask for more excuses, to deal with national myths and social ones, to play the victims most, and not to explain, let's just say, why NATO bombings in the first place. There are several reasons why the LDP advocates joining NATO. That, first of all, is the way to face ourselves, to end that one eternal myth of the victim's position. Secondly, these are economic reasons, because security of capital and security and attracting foreign investors could be accelerated and improved by joining the NATO alliance. It is not true that international capital does not exist. It exists and now it is very important and very wise not to lose valuable resources, such as time and speed, and I fear that this government is out of the question, and that some steps towards this are taken, that is, that most important step of the decision that we really want to be a NATO member finally and make up for lost time. This is important for both the internal economy and for political and security reasons. It is also important for economic reasons. This would speed up the professionalization of the army, because, as far as I was concerned, it is about two years late with the date of the announced professionalisation. When professionalization was first announced, it was 2008. Well, it wasn't you, Minister, that time you were a minister. Your predecessor announced that the professionalization of the army will be carried out in 2008. In that sense, I say we are already two years behind schedule, and, let's say, during NATO membership, that professionalization would be done more easily and faster. We don't get anything from military neutrality. She's too expensive in many ways. She's practically expensive. This can only be allowed by highly developed and wealthy countries, and secondly, it is particularly difficult to live in isolation when we know that almost all countries in our environment are either already NATO members or have applied for NATO entry. We have an example of Croatia. Yesterday we had a Croatian delegation and we are all witnessing how much Croatia is going on this path faster than we are, and one of the key reasons is that entry into NATO. And what we keep saying, there are two ways to join the EU. It is to really enter as did Slovenia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, which are successful EU members or other way, it is slow, sloppy, almost rhetorically unthinked European integration here, so it will be even slower and harder, so it will lead us to the opportunity to either question the path to the EU or when we enter as some other countries – as social cases. Furthermore, I said it was good to join NATO and for political reasons, for professional training. That would be a good way, someone here mentioned Kosovo, for a channel of communication and influence and for the situation in Kosovo. I think you'll agree with that, because NATO forces are already in Kosovo, as well as BiH, in a country that is not NATO member, which has made a unanimous decision that it will be too. Time and speed! This government does not respect time and speed as resources. And this is a way to join NATO. We appeal to that. For LDP, it's one of the key issues. NATO's anti-Western force alliance is very skilled, and we all know that, they're using it as the last dam. I repeat again, we will support these decision-making proposals, but we would love it very much, and our policy will affect our strength to join the NATO Alliance as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41543	Seven minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. The word has a folk MP Sasa Dujovic, followed by MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41544	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning, I would like to state the position of the SPS-JS Group that we will support both proposals for a decision and that we will vote for them. I would refer a little bit to the military's involvement itself, both to the engagement of military and police forces in all these countries that are listed in these arguments and in the very proposals for decisions. As the minister said in his statement, in the introduction, a long history of our armed forces, under various forms and different names in peaceful missions, showed and left a big lead in the military, then the JNA and then the Yugoslav Army, and today we are starting a new era, which is that the Serbian Army, Serbia, as an independent state, takes part in something called the preservation of peace, stability in all parts of this world. Serbia's army should be engaged in the following countries -- Chad, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Congo, Cyprus and Lebanon. I think it is necessary to point this out for the citizens, that these places are quiet for now, except for one Lebanese area where the blast area is. What I, first of all, enjoys as a soldier is the occupied position of our country in terms of military commitment, i.e. The position of the Serbian Parliament, as well as ourselves, to remain militaryly neutral. Regardless of the attempts by certain political entities to define their stance on NATO entry as a speedy NATO pact, we believe that the court should put Serbian citizens in a referendum, when conditions are met and when it is decided. As for going to peacekeeping missions, it should be pointed out specifically, for the sake of the public and the citizens of Serbia, that we are not sending military units, operational military units leading the fight or anything else, but mostly one officer's court. People are able to act there at headquarters, act by observation and point to failures in the maintenance of peace. We are also extremely pleased with the involvement of Sanitary personnel, primarily the Serbian Army, in solving problems both for all mission members and for the citizens of these countries where they are accomplishing their peacekeeping mission. I would point out the minor importance and police forces of Serbia, which are currently engaged in two missions. One is in the Republic of Liberia and the other is in the Republic of Haiti. The involvement of police officers who, in their advisory, control and in one domain of training of police forces of these countries, have made a full contribution to the preservation of peace in these countries, and we have had examples and we have seen, especially in Haiti, that our members of the Interior Ministry have made a great contribution to saving human lives and resources in a catastrophic earthquake and that is something that is good. What we have to endure is that our country finally takes its place in all domains of international activity, in activities concerning the preservation of peace and that our country is no longer the voice that it has recently beaten us, but that we all contribute together to celebrating the name of our country as it should and how it used to be. In any case, the engagement of military units in this way is acceptable to us, and in the voting day, we will support proposals to make both decisions on sending our armed forces to peacekeeping missions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41545	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has been given by MP Mico Rogovic, followed by MP Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41546	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party and the SNS Parliament Club with little more aspects, I will enter this issue and, because of the people who have chosen the second channel at this moment between the first and second channels, in some parts of their presentations, agree with the presentation of the minister, but simply so that those people who have chosen the second programme because of these two last points of extraordinary session would be more clear and accessible. In front of us, again, the last two points of the agenda of this extraordinary session are the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2010 and the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2010. Unlike some previous sessions and agenda points, these two agenda points have all the arguments and reasons, because of the content and the issues they are dealing with, to be united. For a reason, they are. However, there remains an unknown why, at this time, these laws are being passed, and we are aware that probably at the end of June or early July, the annual plan and the decision to use our forces in multinational operations will take effect? About what it looks like could have happened later. It would be more serious, it would not be at all controversial if, at the end of last 2009 or at the latest in early 2010, the proposer had made proposals to parliament for these two decisions to be discussed by MPs. I really don't doubt the members of the Ministry of Defence and the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior that those in their annual plans that they made during 2009 did not put these two points of the agenda on time, but some things are not very crystal clear, which I will talk about later in the course of the presentation, and are mainly about financing and realising the 2010 Budget Act. What would happen if, for example, the UN decided at this time on peacekeeping missions whose mandate expired on May 31st or May 15th, and according to the materials that the MPs received one part of these missions, so I will also make all missions known, the mandate has either expired or expires these days or at the latest in October 2010. It is likely that these mandates have been extended, given that the material we have received states that these mandates have largely expired for those countries in which the UN peacekeeping forces are involved as well. Out of the planned eight participations in the 2010 peacekeeping operations, the seven participants are members of the Serbian Army and the two members of the interior ministry. Although you, Mr. Minister, have presented a part of the data, I would, for the sake of the public following this session, as I said, present some chronological order of all missions in which defence members or members of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia participated in 2010. Peace Operation in the Democratic Republic of Congo: The mission was established on 30 November 1999, the mission's mandate extended until 31 May 2010, and today is 15 June 2010; our engagement in the Mission since 7 March 2003 with the medical team for air evacuation, and at this point, if I am not mistaken, around 14 people have been hired. The situation is said to be stable and there are no elements of the threat to the security of the engaged members of the Serbian Army. I'd rather stick around for an analysis of the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo. We cannot forget the situation that was almost two years ago, when conflicts raged again in that territory, when the wave of these conflicts contributed to the presence of 250,000 refugees from those areas. Some of our generals, and now retired, who were there, were otherwise familiar with the opportunities in the Democratic Republic of Congo, can't even say today, except that this is really a rich country, that the security situation in that country is still stable. I, and most people dealing with this problem, cannot agree with this analysis, which you have given, and I think it is relatively unserious to find this fact, not only because of its procedure in parliament, but also the situation in which the UN peacekeeping forces are involved, and unfortunately, they are mainly after the escalating of the conflict in a particular area. We'll discuss this later, an analysis of some of the effects of using the UN peacekeeping forces. Therefore, the use of peacekeeping operations comes after certain conflicts in a particular area. These conflicts in this mentioned country are repeatedly repeated and the security situation is not stable, although at some point it has stability elements, and since the team of our medical team is engaged, it is a little less dangerous for the members of our forces in this peace operation. The second peacekeeping operation is in the Republic of Lebanon: Mission established on 19 September 2003, mandate extended until 30 September 2010, our engagement from 10 December 2003 and currently there is a team of four military observers. Also, the situation, according to the Ministry's estimates and our security forces, is stable and there are no elements to endanger the security of our members. The next UN peacekeeping operation involving our forces is a UN peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire: The mission was established on 27 February 2004 and the mission's mandate was extended until 31 May 2010. I repeat all these dates because of the material we have received, which says that the missions, according to the mentioned and said material, have not been extended by the UN. Or are they really not, or were they supposed to be listed in the material? I don't want to go into that problem, but it should be clear before us, not a vague situation whether they are or not. Our engagement in the mentioned mission in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire has been with four military observers since 1 May 2004. As in previous times, it is said that the situation is stable and that there are no elements of the threat to the security of members and participants of our forces in this peace operation. The next peacekeeping operation is in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic: by the United Nations Security Council, Mission established on 25 September 2007, mandate extended to 15 May 2010; our engagement in the Mission has been with 15 people on the Sanitation Team since June last year. The situation is unstable, but without the elements of jeopardizing the security of our members and since we have a sanity team there, it automatically implies a lower degree of threat to the security elements by members of our forces. The unstable situation, I repeat again, cannot in itself mean that the safety of our members is not compromised. The unstable situation and the stable situation in the territory covered by our Sanitary Team, indeed, it is very incompatible with each other, so that such a finding is not possible. Then, it is about the participation of our forces in the United Nations peace operation in the Republic of Haiti: The mission was established on 30 April 2004, the mandate of the Mission was extended until 15 October 2010, here are members of the Ministry of the Interior since March 2008 and currently five police officers are hired; they are mainly engaged in training and training of members of the Police Service of the Republic of Haiti. The situation in the Republic of Haiti is said to be unstable due to a devastating earthquake, which unfortunately hit the country on January 11th this year. Also, all relevant factors, i.e. factors, who know the situation in the Republic of Haiti, suggest that the security situation there is not at some good level for members of this time, the interior ministry's forces to be safe, because there, indeed, the situation is quite unstable. United Nations peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Lebanon: The mission was established on 19 March 1978, and the mission's mandate was extended on 31 August 2010 and this is the mission that, apart from the Republic of Cyprus, has the longest mandate as the United Nations Peace Operation Mission. The mission's mandate was extended until 31 August 2010. Our intention is to hire three staff officers and two civilian military co-operation officers. And, a UN peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Cyprus, I mentioned briefly that one of the oldest, or oldest, peacekeeping missions, was established in 1968 and the mandate extended until 15 June 2010. This year seven staff officers and two military observers are scheduled to be hired on our side. Finally, there remains a UN peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Liberia: The mission was established in 2003, and the mandate extended until 30 September 2010, four military observers and six police officers were currently hired from our side. I must, for the sake of the public and all of us, remind myself of the current law that determines that the Serbian Army should fulfil the following missions: the first and priority is to defend the country, the second is to participate in multinational forces, to maintain peace and, the third is to assist the vulnerable population with elemental disasters, i.e. in the conditions of elemental disasters. Starting with the Constitution and the provisions of the law, as well as the fact that we are a member of the UN, it would be unnecessary and unnecessary for any comment that members of our defence forces should not participate, therefore, under the Constitution, under the current Law on the Army of the Republic of Serbia and as a member of the UN, there is no comment on the subject, but, again, I am undermining, in the membership of UN peacekeeping operations. There were comments here on the other topic, for example, about NATO forces. That's not even on the agenda, I don't even want to comment on it. Once again, I underline that both the Constitution and all applicable laws, as well as our country's membership to the UN, indicate that these documents make us bonds, that we participate in the peace operations undertaken and implemented by the UN Security Council. However, a survey in Serbia has been conducted, the question has been raised -- would you participate in UN peacekeeping operations? I'm telling you this clearly that you know, and you probably know what the result is, and that the voice of the people is not exactly in the spirit of what I've been saying, nor with the legal acts and all the applicable laws and the Constitution; 52.38 respondents (from this survey) think that they would never participate in peace operations, 14.29 says that, that's where it's well earned, I can bear the risk, 4.76 says – that, out of conviction and that means more than money, 19.05 says – yes, I like challenges, I'm ready to deal with it and 9.52 (on the survey mentioned) answers – no, my health won't let me do it. Peace operations are a unique and functional instrument, and I must remind it, founded by the UN as a way to help countries affected by crises and conflicts and, primarily, and with the intention of creating conditions for peace in these countries and regions. The first peacekeeping mission was founded in 1948 and so far the UN has taken part in peace operations in 20 countries around the world. For all these reasons, and because of the way the UN Security Council's peacekeeping operations were founded, we must remind ourselves of their three identical but three types of missions. One is for establishing peace, the other is for providing peace and the third is for building peace. However, what can be learned in terms of these 60 and more years since the moment of the first participation in peacekeeping operations by the UN peacekeeping forces? First, the prevention strategy is a far better choice than those which, unfortunately, have the consequences of war. That's what I initially said, that the UN Security Council was mostly advertised after a major and already tragic conflict in a particular area. All these 60 and over years have shown that greater and more effective forces are needed, with greater and stronger powers, and are meant by the UN peacekeeping forces. This means that UN units must be able to defend themselves, other mandates and mission mandates. We've encountered difficulties, insufficient numbers of soldiers, and there's no dispute. There must be sufficient quantity to meet operational challenges in areas affected by the crisis or by wars. There's a problem with funding the UN mission. The Security Council has often made some decisions for large missions without first obtaining the agreement of member states on the necessary financial resources and resources regarding the participation of soldiers in these operations. I would not like to go back to the history of Serb forces' participation in UN peacekeeping operations, beginning in Sinai in 1956 and up to this moment, through the participation of Serbian members in the former SFRY and now in the Republic of Serbia, but the fact is that lately our armed forces, or the Serbian Army, have participated in more operations than it has been during the SFRY period. That might be where we differ in our comments. When you look quantitatively, it really is, but the units, that is, are very different. It used to be a very large number of people, even the quantity of units, and now they're smaller teams, military observers, staff officers, police officers, and mostly medical staff. This, however, says that in the defence system, it is similar to the period in which we were not present in this area, but that there is still a lot of work to do, and that in the coming period we should work with larger units, but I repeat, exclusively in the composition of UN peacekeeping operations. What I would like to stay on, if the time does not allow me to do so, then I will use it later, is a financing problem, i.e. the means necessary for implementing the Decision on the implementation of the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2010. For the realisation of this plan, you delivered us, so we had the opportunity to read and find out, and I want to repeat for the public that the necessary funds are in the amount of 201,410,000 dinars, of which the Ministry of Defence provides for the amount of 169,605,000 dinars, and the rest goes to the Ministry of the Interior. Now, when we look at the Budget Law and the planning items for 2010, we must not forget that the ministries under the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia are obliged by the end of June to deliver annual plans and budgets for their ministries for the following year, then, indeed, unknown, I return to the beginning of the story, why there are gaps in the planning of financial resources, it is thought of both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. As you yourself said in the opening statement, this year we intend to participate in two new peace operations, and the five and six said, were already planned for 2009, and 2010, respectively, that we participated in them and that, you can't tell me, we had to know how much funds were needed for these operations. (President: 20 minutes, the time that is at your disposal) I thank you. I'll explain the rest of the story later when I get my word back. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41547	The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41548	I thank you, indeed, for, it seems, to me, honest and exhaustive exposure that you've presented, and I'm going to have some misunderstandings to tell you, given that some of the things you've said exist. Most of all, it's not controversial, but there are some things I can explain. If we are doing research in Serbia today and ask the citizens of Serbia if they would go into a peace operation, we need to know that these citizens must be able to work under 40 years, professional members of the Serbian Army and volunteers to go on a peace mission. An investigation in which you will answer whether you are going on a peace mission or not is totally irrelevant to the defense system. On the other hand, I must tell you that in the defence system, the vast majority of people wearing uniforms are aware of the weight of their work and express the desire to participate in peacekeeping missions, aware that in this way, not only do they gain knowledge, experience from their field of military, but that they also enable our politics and our state interests to be better represented, in particular in this situation, in the UN. These dots didn't come early on the agenda, or these two laws, for the simple reason we negotiated peace missions. You know, there's one procedure that's bureaucratic, but it's like that. We can't finish this job much faster than we wanted. I felt that this could be arranged in a few weeks, but simply, there is a need to discuss it much longer because these missions are very serious and that is why it only came today. Also, I can tell you that in 1923, 1924, 1925 missions were extended. We're not going to any mission that's not extended and that has no international character. What I think we should, too, you know, I said at the very beginning, we're not going to any peace mission where the situation is stable. So we can say that it's less stable, it's unstable, we build it from one to ten, but the situation in these peace missions where we're participating is much better than in some other peace missions. In this context, we said that the situation is stable and that our members are not directly threatened, which does not mean that the situation cannot change in one day. As you know in Haiti, our police are present. In one day, Haiti's history changed. Could they have predicted that and said that they needed more equipment, more money, more resources, well, not of course? Could they have predicted and said – people, there are earthquakes, can something happen, can we point people to that location, of course, that no one could have predicted? And what's the fact, therefore, these people did their job there according to plans and what it said was that the situation there was relatively safe, and it turned out to be the most insecure point on the globe at that point. At the very beginning, I forgot, I dropped, with professional circumstances, I forgot to mention that I had police both in Liberia and Haiti and to continue with these peace missions. My deep belief is that Minister Dacic and I will also find a way for our forces to appear within the EU, in certain missions, because we believe that if there is a majority commitment of Serbian citizens and in this Parliament, it is perfectly natural for our army and police to participate in EU activities, because that is also one, to say, a trend in which we want to find our place. When we talk about peacekeeping missions, we're not really talking about a shifted system of values, we're talking about a single system of values that exists all over the world, both in the East and in the West, both in the North and in the South. I'll just tell you that, specifically, in Liberia, dozens of countries are participating on these missions. There are also Brazil, Bulgaria and China, and Denmark and Egypt, and France, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mali, Ghana, Romania, Russia, America. A large number of countries, Ghana is very nice to us, especially lately. A large number of countries are participating. There is no extremity here, in a political sense, that we are doing anything in the world that has not long been established as one system of values of the 21st century, and I am so glad that you emphasized it. I want to point out, too, that financial resources are needed, exactly as you said, that part of up to 53.1 million will go out of our budget, and the rest goes out of our budget by appropriations within the budget. Otherwise, in the world, special budgets are being created for these activities. We are one of the few countries that has a single military budget that also serves to prepare for war, to participate in war, and to pay compensation for the damages caused by this war. So there are different budgets everywhere, and all the damages that have been produced in the 1990s, and today we pay off from the Ministry of Defence budget, although we have not defined it by law, but simply, to prepare the country for defence. I would like to emphasise something the colleague said, in 2003 a plan of professionalisation was established, which is due to be completed by the end of 2010, i.e. by January 2011. We're still in time, we're not too late, and I think we're gonna respect that timing. The fact is that from 2004 until May 2007, this job was significantly slowed down and, unfortunately, at that point, we didn't do it the way it was designed, but I say, like everything else, we'll make up for what's been missed and make it better. What is important to say is that the Ministry of Defence, in its own time and SFRY, participated in much greater numbers in peacekeeping missions and, we absolutely agree. What we need to know and what's the difference, which I'm convinced is that this Parliament wouldn't give support, which is, we send, as you say, children on peacekeeping missions. We don't send kids anymore. At that time, they sent children to the SFRY who were on regular military service. Regular soldiers went to Sinai, 15 thousand of them in one year. This time, only professional members of the military and police are leaving, or people whose profession it is and whose craft it is. That's one qualitative difference. (Please, it's just, it's not usual for you to bother me, but, well, it happened. ) This is one big difference, given that we are now getting a professional composition that remains in the defense system and enables it to further train our people who are in the system. In the past, these people were going on peacekeeping missions, returning, completing their military service, and then going home. Practically, they weren't further coaches and needed to train members of the army to go back on some other peace missions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41549	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. After him, the People's Messenger Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an independent MP in this House, I will support these proposals for the laws of departure and participation of the Serbian Army in peacekeeping missions, because it is something that is completely rational, normal and necessary for this country. Otherwise, let me side with my colleagues about this poll that the minister has commented on. The survey was conducted among citizens, not among professionals. I know that in the military, this poll would have completely different results, but citizens also have the right to think about participating in peace operations and peacekeeping missions, but it is up to us to convince the citizens, to make that effort to make them realize that this is something needed for the state of Serbia, for the military and for the police. So far we've had our noises in it, we've used all kinds of things, here, my colleagues, unfortunately, now there's nothing to say about it, I mean colleagues from the previous parliamentary club, I don't know why there aren't any, but, so some things change, they happen, and I need to make a difference. Let's say one of these missions is, you just mentioned Ghana, the Côte d'Ivoire Mission, which will now play a great game at four o'clock, certainly, with Portugal, but, behold, the UN Mission doesn't mind as a state participating in the World Cup, because they have their own team. So something's going on over the UN, someone there is helping that people and that country stabilize, well, even if they can participate in the World Cup football and, you'll see, they'll probably be one of the best if not the best African team at that championship. We have four missions so far, two new military missions, two police missions we've been involved in. Let's remember what happened in Haiti. Then we first and just spoke to the public service and the media and diplomacy of those officers who were there on that mission. So the first information we were able to find out about some of our citizens who were in Haiti was just over those officers who were threatened there. But there must be a difference. I'm not surprised by the poll's results because when you say "peace missions" or "peace operations" in our country, people necessarily think about those biggest hotspots in the world, say, Iran and Afghanistan. Kosovo is something that is our internal thing and we are doing something completely different about it – that is where we fight in the way we fight. But when it comes to Iraq and Afghanistan, I still think that in such missions, Iraq is not a mission, but Afghanistan is, ISAF, Serbia should not participate. It should not take part where the interests of large forces or the interests of one force, such as Afghanistan, are broken, where, apparently, the interest of the United States is more represented than anyone else, so even the EU Member States are not unique in the performance and therefore, the United States has recently considered Europeans as non-solid partners. For example, the Caucasus where interests are intertwined, so we've also seen about this in Georgia, the United States and Russia. In some of our forces' missions: police, military, sanity should not participate, in my opinion. That's the difference we need to make, clearly to tell the citizens, and then I'm sure the citizens will support participation in these other missions. Therefore, it is not necessary to participate where the interests of major forces are broken, I repeat, such as the United States, Russia, China, who knows what will happen to North Korea and South Korea, in any case, we should not go to such places and we should not participate in the NATO Pact contingents, therefore, the NATO Pact Member State. If it's possible to avoid it as long as we have this decision, although to me again, I repeat what I said the other day, it's not clear why we're talking about privatising Telecom until we get the network infrastructure out, because if we sell to someone Telecom with network infrastructure, it's said as "Dairy Telecom," then we can go straight to the NATO Pact. So you don't need to talk about military neutrality anymore. I repeat, these missions are not controversial, they should be supported, but they should be explained to the citizens why they are not controversial, which are those we will not participate in and which is why they do not need to be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41551	The word of the messenger of the people is Vlajko Senic; and after him is the messenger of the people, Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41552	Dear Mr. Minister, respected associates, respected chairman, respected MPs, as Mrs. Comic said the other day – we have completed two years of work by this Parliament and, about two years of work by this government and at first I want to say the position of our party and my personal position on what the Ministry of Defence has done in the past two years. I want to say to the heart that we think that in the past two years, the Ministry of Defence has done very well, even excellently its job, not only in terms of the work of the law and some kind of daily political activity, but, above all, in terms of politics, led by the defence team led by Minister Sutanovac. I think if they keep working like this, they'll still have our support in parliament. For me, as a folk MP, a symbol of the success of this policy, although my colleagues across the street would not agree, was last week's meeting between Serbia's defence minister and Croatia's defence minister. I think that's how a picture is sent that says a lot more than all the words that we can say here about how it's possible from hostility, after a relatively short time, to build a partnership. I think it is an act that Serbian citizens should support and welcome, because it is a path and a policy that leads Serbia faster into Europe, and I would say, if I may say so, Euro-Atlantic integration. Why is this topic important? It is also important because our assembly adopted a new concept of security that clearly states that security is no longer an indivisible category, that the security of a country is not something that is just its internal issue. I will quote here, to the satisfaction of my colleagues from the SRS, NATO Secretary-General, who said at last month's session of the Parliamentary Assembly that no country can be large enough to handle its own security issues, but no country, it seems to me very little to me that this applies to us and to similar states, cannot be small enough for regional and international security movements and developments to concern it. What we are discussing today and what we are talking about today is exactly an important topic, because we are at a time when our partners in the EU are in a major economic crisis, when we are not as a country that can economic aid to the EU, to be on a map of interest in faster EU membership, but when we are a country that has a great export resource, and it is a security issue, and I think it is the hand for which this country is firmly to be caught, the hand of our Euro-Atlantic partners. So security is an area that Serbia can export, which is strategically needed by our partners in Europe and around the world, and in this way we can warn the slowdown of political integration due to the economic crisis that exists, and hopefully, all together, that it will pass relatively quickly. When we talk about these issues, it's a matter of interest. So we don't need to go into security integration because one of us is asking or because that's how we prove ourselves to our partners, or because that's how we meet certain international obligations that one asks us to do, or that someone orders us to do. It is about one political, economic and each other, primarily foreign policy interest and in this way small steps, engagements in this way in military missions around the world, we raise our country's credibility and in an additional way we can fight for some other issues concerning issues that the state of Serbia has not defined with these same partners. Therefore, if as a state we do not agree with most EU members, with most NATO members, on what Serbia is for us and what it is for them and what it is for them, I do not see that in a war with these same countries we can win them over for some of our arguments. I believe that only in partnership can we do this job much better. Here are some countries where we will participate, both the military and the police: Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Liberia, Lebanon, Chad, Haiti, Cyprus. If I read Afghanistan, of course, that would sound nothing different from all these countries we've listed, I say that because citizens should know as well as I as a MP, although Minister Dacic certainly knows that, but I have an obligation to pass on the wish of our partners on Serbia's possible support for peacekeeping missions in Afghanistan. I'm not agitating here that we make such a decision in the future, I'm saying that there are over 50 countries involved, that we can be expected to help that has nothing to do with combat facts and that could have the sole elements of training of the security forces there. That way, with relatively little effort, we could get a lot of credibility and support. It's just one of my thinking and step out of what we're talking about today and what we're discussing. It's not that bad. It's not so antipathy, because citizens need to know that one of the key partners of all the countries leading to Afghanistan is a peace mission or a Russian war mission, which gives the greatest possible logistics support for operations in Afghanistan. Russia, which is our natural partner, Russia which is our political and economic partner, has found its national interest in giving full logistics support and represents one of the key countries to perform these operations there in the best possible way. I think this topic is important (and I will see to it that I finish before the game) and that we cannot avoid the story of Serbia's security future. I can easily say Serbia should join NATO, and collect some points from any citizen, either with those interested in making such a decision, but I would say that Serbia must, above all, take advantage of all its potential in the Partnership for Peace. I want to express my great satisfaction, I have personally met the fact that as a member of a delegation of the Serbian Parliament that was in Brussels, that 2010 will be a much better year in terms of using the programmes our country has in co-operation at this stage of co-operation with NATO and through the Partnership for Peace, there is progress in co-operation. We all expect that during this year, with some technical problem solving, Serbia's NATO mission will be completed and that we will thus set up a new one, I say, based on co-operation with this powerful organisation through the Partnership for Peace programme. I mean, I'd like to, I'm convinced, and I support the initiative of even these political parties, which advocate that citizens in the referendum plead whether or not they are for Serbia's NATO entry. This implies one logical thing, and that thing means that as MPs in the next period, we should think about abolishing the provision of a resolution on military neutrality, because the decision to join the Partnership for Peace was made in 2006, when the DS was not even a member of the ruling coalition. The decision to join the Partnership for Peace implicitly meant that our process of Eurointegration would end. And if opponents of NATO's entry into the pact are pushing for citizens to declare it, then it is pointless to live in the status of a country that has neutral status in the coming period, because the fact that we are neutral, therefore, means that we will never become a NATO member. So there are several illogical and small and different ways of looking at Serbia's future in a safe way. You know my attitude personally. I don't think that in the next few years we should be abetting the citizens of "for" or "against" Serbia's entry into NATO. I think that through co-operation with NATO in the Partnership for Peace, we should show how the Serbian Army and the Serbian officers benefit from this co-operation, that citizens see and understand, and that they trust us more or less, that such co-operation would lead to certain economic improvements for Serbia as well, and that ultimately, in a certain way, or citizens or responsible politicians, they would make that decision. In any case, I think that Serbia today is a country that in the region, and I believe what I read is that, in terms of security strategy and military equipment exports, is a country that represents a respectable factor. I think we should all be happy and proud together that in 2010 we live in Serbia where our army represents a factor of peace, political stability, the economic asset of this country, and that the people at the head of the ministry are welcome and dear guests in the region, as well as wider. In any case, it's just one of a series of reasons why we will, of course, support the proposal of these two laws, and as I said at the beginning, continue to give full support to the way in which the people who run the Department of Defense have been doing it for the past two years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41553	Ten minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Marina Ragus, if he wants to, has the word Alexander Martinovic since he sought the right to reply. National MP Dragan Shormaz, also, right to the replica, only the order of the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41554	Of course, Mr. Senic, the SRS is well-known that your party advocates Serbia's membership in the NATO Pact. We prefer to believe that this idea is on the heart and Mr. Sutanovac, although he probably doesn't have the courage to say it openly at the moment. Since you reminded us of some facts and statements, I would like to remind you on behalf of the SRS that he made here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Russian Federation, Mr. Medvedev, on 20 October of last year, you were probably present as all of us, when he said that the Russian Federation was not against Serbia entering the EU, but that Russia would look differently at Serbia in case it became a member of the NATO alliance. Between your position that you are for friendly relations with the Russian Federation, while at the same time supporting Serbia's NATO membership, there is a deep, non-compliance between those two positions. Also, I have to remind you, Mr. Senic, of the Russian security service estimates, that, for example, it's one detail, growing hemp in Afghanistan since the Americans were present in the country since 2001. I don't know if you know it, Mr. Senic, what, among other things, NATO troops are doing in Afghanistan. They're guarding cocaine fields, but those forces that are loyal to the regime in Kabul, but they're destroying Taliban cocaine fields. Do you think it's moral to put in Serbian soldiers, we don't have to say they're Serbian children, but they're Serbian soldiers, they're guarding cocaine fields in Afghanistan. So the picture of the NATO Pact that you have shown here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not as pink as it looks. I think you'll agree, Mr. Senic, that NATO is a pact not only since 1999, but also before and after it has shown that it is not any defence alliance, but that it leads one, sometimes more, and sometimes less, covered up aggressive policy. So far he has chosen countries that are weaker than NATO, such as the SRJ and Afghanistan, but count on very serious plans to make a NATO strategic ring around the Russian Federation and that the ultimate goal is in fact the military alliance to reach Russian energy wealth. As you know, Mr. Senic, wars in the future will also be fought for oil, and for water, because of the many natural goods with which certain Western countries are already in a deep deficit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41555	The right of the People's Messenger Dragan Shormaz, then the People's Messenger Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41556	I only talked about the part that Mr. Senic was talking about, and he referred to what his colleagues said about Afghanistan, and I know I was the only one who mentioned it. I think that should be made clear, let my colleague Senic mention it. Why shouldn't you participate in such a mission, in my opinion, such as Afghanistan, not only because it's extremely dangerous, no peace mission, I just didn't say it, it can't be harmless, when you go, you go somewhere where peace needs to be introduced, because that state within itself obviously didn't show the capacity to do it alone, so, then, as a member of the UN gets help. First, heroin is produced in Afghanistan, 97% of what is sold on the European heroin market is produced in Afghanistan. This can't be done without a government in Afghanistan, which imports all those chemicals that don't produce in Afghanistan that are needed to make opium heroin. Then why don't they stop it if they want to stop it? The second reason is Kosovo and Metohija. The first state to recognise Kosovo as an independent state has just been Afghanistan, above all others, both the United States and all others. I said here why, because they're complementary businesses. These products, and the Albanian mafia from Kosovo is selling them on the EU market and they are co-workers, and since that money, years ago, the project is essentially financed by an independent Kosovo, among other things, and the project is being financed from that money day and day. That's why we don't have to participate, because if we don't already have enough power to keep our participation there from producing heroin, and in this way to cut, as our people would say, one of the most important cups that the Albanian mafia and their politician have on KIM, then we shouldn't participate in it, not because of the interest of big players like Russia, America. There are some who estimate that in the next five years Russia and America will be exactly the largest strategic partners, that they will be driven by Brazil, India, China, with their development and what is happening to them, and that apparently Americans cannot rely on Europeans as partners. It could happen, then, that after we've heard a completely different story here. That's why I think, among other things, we shouldn't be talking about entering the NATO Pact because of our interest, not the interest of the Americans or the Russians. There's no need to settle down. But we don't have to participate in Afghanistan because there's something going on in that country that's about us and what's causing us a problem. That is why we should not participate, because I do not believe that we can participate with such capacity that we can prevent Afghans from producing heroin and giving Albanians to sell across Europe, I do not believe. You convince me that we can do this, first I'll raise my hand to participate in Afghanistan, but since I know we can't and we can't decide, then we shouldn't take part in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41557	National MP Vlajko Senic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41558	Thank you. I'll be right back. First of all, Mr. Martinovic, I think that you, I don't think, are obviously young and educated, I don't know what you're constantly looking at in some wars in the future. Whether there will be war or not depends on your vision or on your information, or on mine. I was just trying to talk here about some issues that concern this topic. The easiest thing for me was to go out and read the law, quote where and how many soldiers go and when they leave, when they come back. Simply, these are all topics that I think Serbian citizens have the right to hear from us as MPs, so these are topics that are on the agenda and concern us. As I've said quite frankly, people ask us, they talk about it, we talk about it, I think we need to share it with the citizens. Far from being agitated here for a decision like that. I think Serbia must always follow and protect its national interests. All honors to both Russia and the United States and Germany and to all other leading countries will always be the right decision for me to protect our national interests in the best possible way. I believe that Russia, too, by estimating its national interests, has decided that logistic support for the operations of the troops in Afghanistan and I believe that it has information about its security services, and therefore, by respecting that information, has made the decision it has made. So the security issue is important and the point to me was to expand the subject. It's not just a question of sending 20 or 30 soldiers, it's a broader question, it's a question of our concept in the future, it's our important, obvious, and a great economic resource and potential, and I think that opportunity, to the extent that we can at the same time and protect our interests, we have to and should take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41559	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, Mr. Senic, that in no way have I questioned your right to use your political style to explain your party's political views, therefore, it is completely legitimate and of course I am not angry. Don't think that I or anyone in the SRS is calling for any kind of war. Our people say, "Whosoever willed war, had it in his own house." Unfortunately, war is the reality of the modern world, and all tends to say that it will seem to be reality and some future time, no matter how many strategies of the new world order persist in talking about peace. Remember those Bible verses, "speak to my people: peace, peace, but peace is gone." Unfortunately, Mr. Senic, they've been talking about peace since 1945, but they don't stop fighting. I think America is the only country in the world that's in a permanent state of war, once open, once hidden. I want to show you, in this short time, one illogicalness that is at the heart of all those who advocate Serbia's membership in NATO, directly, indirectly, in secret or in a way that we participate in those so-called NATO-controlled peace operations. You see, Mr. Senic, I think Serbia would be the only country in the world that has its soldiers on some distant, remote meridians of the world, but has no soldiers in one part of its own state territory. It is pointless, Mr. Senic, to talk about the participation of Serbian soldiers in any peace operations and under UN control, especially under NATO control, in a situation where the Serb soldier and Serb police officer are not in Pristina, is not in Peća, is not in Decani, is not in Kosovo Mitrovica. Let's do everything... Don't throw it away, Mr. Schutanovac. You get angry when someone throws you, but you give yourself the right to throw you away. ) So let us do everything possible to implement resolution 1244, which guarantees that a certain contingent of Serb soldiers and police officers will return to Kosovo and Metohija, to protect Serbia's state borders towards Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia, to protect the remaining Serb people on KIM and, of course, the Serbian spiritual and cultural heritage. When we do so, Mr Senic, the issue on the political scene of Serbia opens the question whether Serbia should or should not participate in peace operations. Like this, it's completely pointless. The Serbian people, I'm not saying that you're guilty, far from it, but simply, the fact is, today living on KIM is the only European people for whom institutions like Auschwitz, Dahau, Mathausena are not the past, but, unfortunately, everyday life. The Serb people at KIM, but I think many honest Albanians in KIM live in the conditions of the concentration camp. It's impossible that you don't know?- I'm sorry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41561	Thank you. National MP Vlajko Senic has the right to reply. Please close this circle of replicas, as we are moving away from the topic of the agenda with the contents of the replicas. All the debate is, of course, desirable, but I'm asking you to bring an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41562	There would have been no replica if it hadn't been for Kosovo. I wrote this question somewhere in my opening statement, and I really deliberately skipped it, because the topic in Serbia is so abused and exhausted that I think that when the subject is mentioned from the mouth of politicians, it often raises doubts whether it is some sincere intention or whether it is, again, political demagogy. I agree with you and nothing less than you would mind, and I want to see a Serb soldier on KIM protect Serbs and other non-Albanians, to protect our monasteries, our festivals, to protect what the international community has a duty to protect today. But as someone who always likes to say openly what he thinks, I see only twice that the Serb soldier in the future is in Kosovo. One is that this assembly makes a decision that, according to the Constitution, Kosovo is part of our territory and that, using its right, it tries forcefully to restore KIM territory and thus again our soldiers are on KIM. For this time I did not, and this country made its own decision after the 1999 bombing to withdraw from KIM, voluntarily, and the decision was taken in the Serbian Parliament. The second time is exactly the one you deny. So, I believe that only by using Serbia's security capacities in the future, and that in some final instance could mean a decision to make Serbia a full NATO member, that is the only way I can imagine and see a Serb soldier, a Serb, a professional as part of a contingent on KIM territory. I believe that what I'm saying now may not suit the ears of most citizens in Serbia, but I firmly believe and I am convinced that this is the only way we can fulfill Resolution 1244, because that part of the resolution is unfulfilled, unfulfilled, and I don't see that we can use that possibility in any other way, as I said. Only, either by force, but I don't believe that you're up for it, or in a way of co-operation, partnership and cooperation in the future, and I believe that's what we'll succeed in. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41563	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. This closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41564	Your mistake, Mr. Senic, is that you say there are only two times that the Serb army will return to Kosovo and Metohija: either by war or by becoming part of the NATO alliance. I must remind you of what it says in Resolution 1244, and it does not say that it is a condition for the Serb soldier and police officer to return to Kosovo and Metohija, to train NATO uniforms and return under the flag of the NATO Pact, but under the flag of Serbia that is a member of the UN. So what our country is not doing, which is to do, is to insist on both the UN and, of course, NATO to allow for the completion of Resolution 1244 to be implemented and to allow that contingent of the Serbian military and police to return to Kosovo and Metohija. And again, I have to point out something in Resolution 1244 -- it is the right of Serbia to return its military and police to Kosovo and Metohija, but nowhere does it say that it can only be done by becoming part of NATO. Unfortunately, I have not heard of it since 2000, and I doubt anyone has heard of it, that any Serbian state official has asked for Resolution 1244 to be implemented and to allow Serb soldiers and police officers to return to the southern Serbian province in the number envisioned by the resolution. Instead of this topic, the topic here is artificially being opened whether to enter the NATO Pact or not, where the regime, as speakers, puts the need to enter the NATO Pact, uses some political parties that are part of the ruling coalition. First of all, I'm thinking about G17 plus SPO. In doing so, of course, I don't think at all that this is not the attitude of all the more political parties that are making or supporting the Serbian government today. But simply because you know that most of Serbia's citizens are against it, you don't all have the courage to say it openly. Mr Senic, nor does the SRS advocate that the Serb military return to Kosovo by war, and in particular we are not in favour of returning to NATO flag, but we are in favour of the third and only possible way – for the path set out in Resolution 1244, to implement the letter Resolution 1244, or one of its annexes, and to allow a contingent of the Serbian military and police, I think it says: "no more than 1,000" to return to Kosovo and Metohija. The only question is why are the representatives of your political party, why are representatives of any other political party that are today making or supporting the Serbian government never referred a single request, not a single application, a single word to the UN to implement Resolution 1244 until the end? It's not any benefit of Serbia, it's her right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41565	Three minutes. The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41566	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Martinovic, you have brought forth a series of lies, so that I may not express myself more harshly. In 2001, late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic spoke publicly about the need for Serbian personnel to return to Kosovo and Metohija. At that time, the leaders of your party, who are no longer in your party, criticised that he was saying that it was just marketing and that there was no need and possibility that only a thousand people would return, because thousands of people couldn't control that much space. I'm sorry that you don't remember it and that in a single outcry of hate you're obviously telling the truth in this holy house, in which we all really need to tell the truth. On the other hand, it's obvious that you haven't read the resolution with the capacity of a young intellectual because you're performing by saying something you don't know. Why don't you know, I don't know, but I have to tell you that I really know that. There's no such thing as a resolution written where it's said - police and military. It says here - Serbian personal. Another thing, it says, at the invitation of KFOR Commander. The KFOR commander has never called our own. So, you were in the position of government when international forces came to Kosovo and Metohija, you were in the position of government when it was signed and today you criticize people who are in a position to save what you did and speak falsely in this House. I have no problem spending the whole day here with you, in replicas, explaining how much error you produce not only among the citizens of Serbia, but also among your people who are following you, thinking that what you're saying is true. Believe me, that's far from true. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41567	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41568	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, Mr. Minister, I don't know where you found any hatred in my words? Neither I hate anyone, nor does the SRS hate anyone, nor did I say this because I hate you, your political party, the late Zoran Djindjic or anyone else. The problem is, you didn't listen well to what we said. I was very precise. I said there has been no formal request from any Serbian official since 2000 sent to the UN to allow the Serbian military and police to return to Kosovo and Metohija. What Zoran Djindjic said at the Democratic Party's meetings, or in the myths, or in the stands, is not an official policy. It's a party policy. I ask you -- do you have one piece of paper with the official seal of any Serbian state body, the Serbian Government, the National Assembly, the Ministry of Defence, the foreign ministry, in which the UN is asked to allow the implementation of Resolution 1244 to be completed? You're saying you didn't get a call from the KFOR commander. Well, Mr Sutanovac, if KFOR thought that it had a serious respect for Serbia's territorial integrity, do you think it would be NATO intervention, or NATO aggression in the spring of 1999? Have you ever come up with the idea to ask the UN, which formally have primate in Kosovo and Metohija and under whose mandate is the KFOR Mission in Kosovo and Metohija, to ask if there is a need to return the Serb army and police to Kosovo and Metohija? What we also don't understand is what you say is that there's no military and police writing, but Serbian personality. I guess you don't think coffee cooks, porters, drivers, ballerinas, footballers, etc. are coming down. So that's something that just doesn't stand. And, finally, Mr. Sutanovac, I think you've completely overlooked one very important thing. All political parties in this parliament voted for the adoption of the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin Agreement, except the SRS. You're in a coalition with a party whose president at the time was in good faith to support the signing of the agreement. You are in a coalition with the SPS, and as I recall, Vuk Draskovic was the foreign minister of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia at the time of NATO bombing. Well, is it possible that no one lives in Serbia is responsible for anything but the SRS? Was there an SPS in those 1990s? Was there a SPO? Was there, after all, an DS? There was! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41569	Three minutes. Thank you. The word has a defence minister, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41570	I think we've already closed the subject, but obviously we haven't. Mr Martinovic, in the government of Mirko Marjanovic, the majority of ministers from all parties, in particular, made up the SRS ministerial team. So your responsibility was greater than the others. What you're avoiding from saying, the Kumanski Agreement was signed in June 1999. June 1999! The people drove you away on October 5, 2000. From June 1999 to October 5, 2000, it is a year and a half. Why, then, did you not at least declare the return of the Serbian army and police to Serb sanctity?- I'm sorry. What you have only changed, you have recently said: Karlovac – Karlobag – Virovitica, there should be a return of the Army of Serbia and the police, and today you are talking about Kosovo, I do not know what will happen in five years. Then what are you gonna say? I'll remind you that under the Kumanov Agreement, the Homeland Security Zone was built. So, one tampon between the Serbian Army, or the Yugoslav Army at the time and KFOR. By the time you were in power, that army couldn't get near, and neither could the police. Zoran Djindjic, as prime minister, relaxed the Kumanski Agreement and allowed the Serbian Army and police to be present today in the Land Area of Security, where the largest paramilitar forces were organised in 2000-2001. What you left us was space, not only could we not go back to Kosovo and Metohija, but we couldn't go back within this part of Serbia, because you signed that we couldn't go there either. For one more thing, it cannot be initiated in the United Nations because the United Nations has made it the commander of KFOR who decides, not the United Nations. If you know any way to do this, first tell me why you didn't do it at the time you were in power, that period was a year and a half. This government is a little bit more than that. A year and a half after the most difficult operations that happened in Kosovo didn't occur to you?- I'm sorry. Otherwise, for the public, for the citizens, you know, really, when someone signs that we're going back in number of hundreds, not thousands, what do we do? To protect the borders. What people? With a thousand. To protect Serbian cultural and church sanctities and to demining space. Demining space! Does the one who signed it have any awareness that there is no more dangerous job per army than demining? When I say Serbian personal, I have to tell you that you're wrong, you can come back, say, customs. With the police and the military there's an institution, it's customs, it's not cleaners, and don't insult the cleaning girls, because they're both back and they're our people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41571	The replica circle is closed. You have no right to a replica. The People's MP, Konstantin Samofalov, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, at first I would like to welcome this debate, which is being held for the first time in the history of our parliamentaryism in the one-year plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations. This is important because the mandate of the National Assembly is to exercise full democratic and civilian control of the security sector and of course that the military and police are taking a very important place. That is why it is our obligation to bring this problem closer to the citizens and explain why it is important for Serbia to make a far greater contribution to peacekeeping missions than it has done so far. There's a lot of reasons for that. One of the most important is that Serbia is a member of the UN and, of course, since we are also a responsible member of the international community, it produces certain obligations. As with full right, we expect a positive assessment of the International Court of Justice on Kosovo and Metohija, and for this we have fought right through the UN General Assembly, and as we are calling for full rights to international law, so we have certain obligations. Here, first of all, I think of the contribution of building world peace through peacekeeping missions, that is something we have committed to in our strategic documents, in the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy, where this very contribution to global security through peacekeeping missions is one of the key two missions of the Serbian Army. What encourages is that this government is showing full commitment to one new role of Serbia, and this role says that we are no longer, as counterpart Senic said, because security is indivisible, only the user of security, but also the exporter of security and of course we can no longer talk about the protection of the security of a country exclusively within our borders, but we must do so beyond the borders of our country. The best example for that is the cooperation we talked about, and in the months behind us, about fighting organised crime. Interior Minister Mr. Dacic said in Uruguay the other day that the state authorities of Uruguay have just helped seize those three tonnes of cocaine and initiate the story of the Darko Saric drug cartel. So that's proof that you can't defend your country's security on the inside, and that's why this new policy is very important. That's how we justify the great tradition of the Serb soldier. We talked about our soldiers in the JNA contingents from the 1950s to the late '80s participating in the number of thousands of people in various places around the world. I am sure that both young men and girls who are now in these peace operations, wherever the Serbian flag is stabbed, will defend that tradition in the same way, and will allow us to start creating a new picture of Serbia, and that picture is completely different from the one we had in the 1990s, just when the people of the SRS were in power and got a protectorate in Kosovo and Metohija, then we were buried in our own problems, in some regional conflicts that no one alive could get us out of. Today we show that we are ready to extend our hand to the international community and that we are ready to share the burden of responsibility for global security. The challenges facing the whole world today are numerous. I'm talking terrorism, organized crime. Of course, colleagues to Martinovic, namely Russia and NATO today represent the largest allies in the fight against drug trafficking in Afghanistan, and that is also in the interest of Serbia's security, because 80% of this heroin intended for the Western European market, and we have talked about it many times, it goes through the Balkan route and there is Serbia. Of course, if it concerns Serbia's security, we must support such co-operation, because it concerns the security of our citizens, above all. The missions foreseen by this annual plan, in addition to the existing ones, we are opening two new UN missions, Lebanon with the Spanish. This is important because Spain is one of the most important Member States of both the EU and NATO, which helps us defend our position on KIM. In Cyprus there are Slovakia and Hungary. Again, Slovakia, which also helps Serbia with its principled stance to defend its territorial integrity. It is also important to note that all of these operations have a purely humanitarian character and aim to ensure peace in these areas of conflict, and to ensure safety and normal life for people living in these areas. Therefore, personally, absolutely, I support this trend of increased engagement of our military and police, primarily in UN peacekeeping missions, and tomorrow probably the EU, because if we want to become a full member of the European family, we must also assume the obligation to contribute to the construction of a European system of common security and defence policy. Here we have something that can be very important for Serbia, and here we are talking about civil and security skills. That's what Serbia can and must be involved in. So, I'm talking about border control, I'm talking about fighting illicit trade, fighting illegal migration, civil protection and a lot of other things. It encourages the recent visit of Defence Minister Sutanovac Brussels, where it has just discussed for the first time with European parliamentarians the topic of reforming Serbia's defence system in the European context and for the first time on the possibilities for our soldiers to participate in European Union missions, because this is definitely the future for our country. There have been some specific operations, and I'm sure we'll talk about it even more in front of us for months. All of this strengthens Serbia's international reputation and confirms that the military and how, which it used to be, could be a significant tool for Serbia's foreign policy and we would have to take advantage of that. A colleague, Rogovic, spoke about certain risks. Of course, the risks of participation in these missions exist, but it is important to underline that our soldiers and officers go there based on the principle of volunteering. That's the first thing. Secondly, I am sure that the ability, training and professionalism of Serbian soldiers and police officers on such a high level that the danger of these undesirable situations is indeed reduced to one minimum. Participation in these operations is also important from the aspect of gaining additional experience for our armed forces, because in these rotations in these countries where our peacemakers will pass a large number of soldiers and police officers from Serbia and thus we raise both our operational capabilities and our armed forces. I would also stress the need for us to create the possibilities in the future for more active engagement in these peace operations in future budget projections, no matter how much budget resources allow us. This is just another in a series of indicators of significant international activities and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. I will remind you that exactly the Ministry of Defence is an active participant of all relevant regional security initiatives. So, that the Serbian Army also becomes a factor in regional stability and that we signed last week with the last state in the region, with which we did not have a military co-operation agreement with Croatia. In this way, we have closed a difficult chapter in the history of relations between the two countries and probably turned a whole new page in which both Serbia and Croatia will contribute together to making the Western Balkans a place of true stability, which also contributes to the stability of Europe, and does not expect this Europe to constantly solve our problems and thus show some incompetence. I also welcome the fact that last week we supported this annual plan on the Committee on Defence and Security, which is also responsible for discussing such decisions, with a large majority of the votes of our committee members, and I am sure that if MPs who did not vote for it, they would also support this decision's agenda, because this is not about some narrow party interest, it is about one of the top national interests. And listening to my colleagues, which from the SNS, as well as some independent MPs, I have the impression that today we are much closer to consensus on this matter and it really encourages and it says that our political scene is slowly growing, because this is indeed a question of top national interest and it is good that as many MPs as possible stand behind it. That is why I call on the coalition for Europe's Serbia and on behalf of the DS all my colleagues to support and demonstrate my confidence that in the future, therefore, year after year, we will only make a greater contribution to building world peace, because that is also our obligation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41573	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to reply to the presentation of MP Konstantin Samofalov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand why representatives of the ruling coalition whenever they speak of certain points of the agenda that Mr. Sutanovac explains have the need to deal with the SRS? So, Mr. Samofalov, I greatly appreciate and respect it, but I haven't taken it in my mouth at all, but since Mr. Samofalov has already used the right that he has given himself to call me and the SRS, I have to tell him and Mr. Sutanovac that I have never personally been in power, as I am being respected here, so I've never been a minister in my life, I don't know if I'll be well, Mr. Sutanovac, I may never be a minister, but I'm also sure I'll never be in the security of Mirjana Markovic, as you were, well, maybe she's told you the details of how the Chernomird - Ahtisaari Agreement was signed, who voted for what. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Samofalov, I don't know if you're familiar with the fact that you're already talking about drug trafficking as a security challenge, which is indeed a security challenge, that the US DEA has asked the authorities in Serbia to take action against Darko Saric, but not because they love Serbian children very much and because they want to protect Serbian citizens from this drug monster, but because the American secret service has its own interest in drug trafficking in both the Balkans and Afghanistan and many other parts of the world? I've been very specific, there have been reports of Russian security services, I can also show them to you, where it's been taxed that since 2001, ten times the production of opium in Afghanistan has been increased since the presence of Americans, British, or NATO pact troops. I really don't get it, maybe he's absolutely right, Mr. Sutanovac, I may be a really stupid man, but I can't understand that you're pushing for Serbia's membership in such an organisation that openly supports drug production. Do you know that NATO soldiers in Afghanistan, literally, with weapons guards outside the field of the Maka forces loyal to the regime in Cable? Maka fields are being destroyed, but only the Taliban, the macaque fields that have been sown by people who support the government in Kabul are being guarded by NATO soldiers in Afghanistan. How do we fight narcotics now, and the NATO Pact keeps the macaque fields in Afghanistan? Mr. Samofalov, how are we now going to join NATO or send our soldiers into the so-called international peace mission to fight organised crime, and there is organized crime in our own country? That doesn't need... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41575	Three minutes. Thank you. The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac. I'm just asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41576	I have to react not to something I find incorrect. I understand you don't even know you weren't a minister. I'll tell you that I believe you won't even be a minister. If you follow public opinion research and these choices that have been lately, you practically don't exist. Here are people who don't represent the people, but that's less important now. For that sentence you just said earlier, I have accused Mr. Budimirovic of being in a court of law to anyone. I got about 300,000 dinars. I later invested it in humanitarian purposes, i.e. I bought sports equipment for the children in Svilinc and we were all satisfied and that is one way to help people who need help. If you think and have the courage to participate in such an activity, I invite you outside of this room to state what you said earlier, not to call for immunity and to prepare the two or three salaries you receive here, undeservedly, to separate, to see for which children, whether from where you are from, or if we see any other children in another place. Of course, someone needs that money, and it's obvious that you have a desire to make a lie that's sanctioned in the world that way. What is problematic in your speech, and what is serious, is that from one NATO phobia you have, and the speech you bring here, characterising all NATO countries as you see them, you forget that there, except for Cyprus, which is a member of the EU, all the other NATO countries representing our interests in our defence of KIM. Spain, Greece, Slovakia, Romania, participate in peace operations around the world, protect our interest where it is important to us, protect the world's interest where it is important to the world. If you're saying they're guarding, as you said, cocaine fields, as far as I know, it's a great lie and, again, a great ignorance, but how, then, to explain to our friends that you as one MP of the parliamentary party, an influential parliamentary party, not in the people, but in parliament, of course, you express such things in the belief that it's true? Tomorrow we need to talk to Greece, Spain, Romania about supporting the Security Council and the resolution, possibly, after the decision of the International Court of Justice and how to go before them and say, you see, you are representatives of the force that guards drug dealers in the world, but this is now less important, to help us defend our rights to KIM? Being sad doesn't help our conversations. You can't use it in that situation as an argument. You were wrong, you don't know, you weren't a minister. You're a young intellectual who, in the name of one force, intellectually, conducts something that isn't true. Keep in mind when you bring something out here in parliament it's read in the world, it's transmitted. Someone will say -- it's a serious party, Serbian, radical. They'll think you're a serious group of people. And, then, how do you think there's communication and saying – people, it's not, he didn't really understand it, as an MP he's saying something we don't mean? It's unnatural to say that the Greeks are our biggest brothers, and at the same time they're guarding drug cartels in Afghanistan. Please, just, no matter what you have NATO phobia, let's concentrate on these proposals today. There's no NATO, there's no "n," there's no NATO. It's the UN. If the problem is, I can read again who's participating, all the friends of the Serb people around the world are there. This is one universal system of values in the 21st century that we've been living in for, like, eleven years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41577	You have no right to a replica. I'd like to inform you that they're in agreement with Article 93(4)... (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The replica circle is closed. If you look at the stenogram, you'll see that the replicas are given so that whoever's on the line is the last one, and I'm taking great care of it. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41578	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is inappropriate for any minister, no matter what party he belongs to, regardless of all the antagonism he has towards the SRS, to come to the National Assembly and say, here, these people who sit here represent no one, they are not a people. I'm sorry, then who are we representing? I think this house is called the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that all 250 people sitting here represent the people. I think that you, Mrs. Comic, had to take this insult, not personally, and not only of the MPs of the SRS, but of all the MPs sitting here, to react and to protect the dignity, again, I say -- not mine, but the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I want to point out, Mr. Sutanovac, that I don't get paid in the National Assembly, and I can give money to poor children as long as it takes, I have three children, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm always ready to help, whenever I need to. But unlike you helping other people's money, I'm willing to help my own. Also, Mr. Sutanovac, let's ignore all the big stories now, you've been doing this kind of, like, NATO pact and so on, let's deal with the problems we have in our own house. [[Applause]] We need to participate in international missions, allegedly, to fight organised crime, and we have organized crime in our own country. How is it possible that one firm in Jugochemia is getting everything from vaccines against swine flu to jobs like airplane remonts, which are a little, little, so falling? Let's do some of these life issues, let go of what was 1999, 2000, 2001, you know that probably better than me, because then you were active politicians, unlike me... (President: Two minutes. So, only Mrs. Komic, I really ask you, your task is not to defend the minister from me or from the MPs of the SRS, but to allow everyone to use their parliamentary right. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41579	People's MP, if you think I don't know what the task is and if you think I'm violating the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to make it public during the session of the National Assembly. You were obliged to say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the post: I said Article 104) Not now, throwing it out of place. By looking at the stenogram, you will see that you did not say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. I listen very carefully to all the MPs. (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the place: How do I look at the stenogram, when the stenogram is not yet finished?) ) The stenogram is conducted at each session of the congregation. If you do not know how to get a stenogram, I refer you to the Secretary of the National Assembly, who will get you a stenogram from this session and you will see that you have not specified which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. From the context of what you said, I realized that you felt that the reason for the special insult was the fact that Minister Dragan Sutanovac, said his assessment of how much support he had based on research in the public opinion of the SRS, which is a public data that can be found in the media, printed, electronic, television shows and does not constitute a reason for the insult. Secondly, you thought the reason for the insult was that the minister thought you wouldn't be a minister, that's not an insult, that's an assessment, and each of us... (Dear Sutanovac from the scene: that's a fact. I'm asking the minister, too, not to throw it away. So there was no reason to warn the minister of respect in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because he made his statement in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. All along, the exchange of replicas has been told a number of truths that were on the verge of diminishing this House of the People's Assembly, from various MPs, including the untruths concerning the content of Resolution 1244, including the irregularities concerning interventions in the case of this resolution and, including the untruths that concern the UN Security Council, which defines, i.e. NATO and the UN campaign in Afghanistan. There was no reason for anyone to be referred to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and to continue our work. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, the Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia, the SRS Parliamentary Group and no other parliamentary group. We move on to the course of the session, and in order of the Messengers of the people. The National MP Marina Ragush has now been reported I asked twice if anyone wanted a word. Since you're not... (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the post: She applied before the replica cycle. The People's Parliament... National MP Aleksandar Martinovic argues that National MP Marina Ragus was registered before the replica cycle. By looking at the stenogram, you will see that I asked if he wanted a word, and by order of the parliamentary groups, before the word was given to the MP Konstantin Samofalov and before the cycle of replicas began. The MP didn't sign up for the electronic system, nor did she want the word. Given that the public is to the truth, then, I declare, in accordance with Article 27, taking care of order and making sure that the Rules of Procedure is strictly applied and, co-operation with Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic, because you sought a replica, in a situation where you provided notice as deputy parliamentary group, that this is the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Marina Ragush. Technically, she was the only one who had the right to a replica. I asked Vice President Natasa Jovanovic to warn you of this fact and to ask you in the spirit of good practice that we have here to stay in the hall, because then I have a purely business right to give you a word and a right to replication. And I asked again if one of you wanted a word. Since that wasn't the case, then you got the right to replica. National MP Marina Ragus did not sign up to speak as an authorised representative, in part of the session's course, where the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups speak, will be able to use their right when the debate is concluded in the joint single debate on the proposals for decisions of the 7th and 8th agenda. The People's Messenger Tamash Tot has a word. After him, MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41580	Thank you very much. The Honored Presidency, Mr Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today is the agenda of a decision on the participation of members of Serbia's army in multinational operations in 2010 and, a decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan of Using the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2010. Accepting the legacy of the SFRY as his own, Serbia can boast of the UN's tradition of peacekeeping missions, from the very beginning of peacekeeping missions, as a form of halting conflicts. Of the five missions JNA took part in, one was the largest contingent, while the other was commanded by General JNA. And what exactly does this plan foresee? Up to 134 members of the Ministry of Defence and Interior and the Serbian Army will participate in eight peacekeeping missions in 2010. Members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army will participate in six peacekeeping missions, and the MUP will participate in two. It is predicted that up to 98 members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army, up to 36 members of the MUP, participate in UN peacekeeping missions. Under the plan, members of the defence system will participate in UN peacekeeping missions in Congo, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Chad, Lebanon and Cyprus, while police officers will take part in Liberia, Haiti. Serbia's military has the capacity, knowledge and opportunities to participate with friends from Spain, i.e. Italy, Hungary and Slovakia in these peace missions. Participation in building and preserving peace in the region and in the world is one of the three Serbian Army missions defined in the Defence Strategy. This mission also mentions the Law on the Serbian Army, specifically referring to the Law on the Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. It is important to say that in addition to respect for the reputation the army has regained among the citizens, the Serbian Army enjoys a great reputation and beyond the borders of our country. This trust has also been expressed through the desire to participate in peacekeeping missions. Let me remind you, in Chad, our peacemakers are concerned about the health of the entire UN peace mission contingent. Our army is respected not only in military terms, but also in military medicine. It certainly represents a significant recognition. Serbia's military has extremely high quality relations with many armies around the world. We have good relations with China, America, Norway, Portugal, Iraq, Algeria and many other countries. These relations are not only for the benefit of the defence system, but are for the benefit of all citizens of Serbia, as in many countries the defence system is the main driver of economic co-operation. Serbia today is the largest producer and exporter of weapons and military equipment in the Balkans. Our products meet all standards, and we're best known for the ammunition of all calibers. We're exporting to markets from Indonesia to America. However, we have the best co-operation with traditional customers, that is Iraq and Algeria, and we expect to re-establish co-operation with Libya, Egypt and Kuwait. In addition to co-operation on arms exports, we have excellent co-operation in the field of military education. Participation in peacekeeping missions certainly contributes greatly to the promotion of the overall defence system, including the defence industry, because almost all factories make revenue and support themselves. The implementation of the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces requires two and a half million dollars to be allocated, and the funds will be provided from Serbia's budget. In this term, the government follows the first billion dollars earned from the sale of arms and military equipment. In international politics, only those countries that contribute to peace and stability have full credibility, which means military presence at those hotspots where destabilisation and endangering the basic principles on which the modern world rests. Similarly, those countries that contribute to other countries' economic development have increased international credibility. For example, citizens of Norway, Japan, Sweden, the Netherlands allocate considerable resources from their national gross social product. They help others, and it's for respect. I wish Serbia had the opportunity to contribute to the development of an undeveloped world, and I want us to meet as soon as possible in a group of developed countries. Countries that contribute to world peace and participate in peace operations raise their credibility, as the former SFRY did. With our current participation in peace missions, we change the image of ourselves and we can do much more. The political benefit is higher than obvious and I think that some political actors make a big mistake and a bad service to our citizens when Serbs push into isolation and oppose the participation of our army in peace operations. This is about the activity of professional military personnel, it stresses on a voluntary basis that because of the professional challenge they want to go into peace operations. The participation of Serbian military members in UN peacekeeping operations on a much larger scale than is now of interest not only to the defence system, but rather to the state's interest towards strengthening our foreign policy capacity. If you want to worry about Serbia's security, we need to step out of our country's borders, because no one in the world can only take care of their country's security within their own borders. The DS MPs on the day of the vote will support this decision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41581	Seven minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been given by MP Mico Rogovic, followed by MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41582	I thank the chairman. I will be brief in this part of the time that remains, because in the previous exhibition, I have failed to complete my discussion, and it ends with a financial structure related to the participation of our forces in UN peacekeeping operations for 2010. So it's about the amount of, something, over 201 million dinars, and you mentioned, Mr. Minister, and the missing funds that amount to approximately 130 million dinars, and we have to bear in mind that for the reciprocal number of soldiers who participate in UN peacekeeping operations during 2010, we get 260,000 euros, so that the deficit that needs to be exceeded from other items, about 100 million dinars. Why am I saying this? I think that by preparing the budget for this year and every year to come these items can be well planned and constantly planned to be in some frameworks that were in 2009 with, some, plus-minus for 2010, as well as for the next one, and that no budget rebalancing is needed for this, at least not large, and in this case, it is a budget rebalancing in a figure of over 60% of the necessary funds compared to the planned items in the Department of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. This should also be taken into account for the next budget laws, these reports and annual plans should also be made, given the situation and the planning, in the year to be ahead of us and not in the current year, as well as for 2011, during this calendar year or possibly early this year. I have cited examples of the law and the situation as Mr. Shormaz has said from various polls, not definitely as an attitude, I have merely cited examples of what laws are, what the opinion of the people surveyed is not surveyed by the whole people or members of the army, but it is a small pattern, but these are opinions related to the law and opinions relating to the polls. I'm going to do a quote on this occasion and I'm going to make one of our doctors' views in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and he's about to read it like this. "Paternian countries, such as Uruguay, Bolivia, India, Pakistan", in which we should be classified and we, those are his words, "have several thousand soldiers here. The UN pays $1,100 each country's participants in relation to the numerous state of mission, so that in most of the military contingents and reserves present, which are normally unemployed in the home countries. For every machine, weapon, tool, aircraft, the UN pays a lot more money to the state by the day it stays the same on the mission, so that smart countries bring their "infractions" from the vehicle and buy new ones for a year's use. "That is the opinion of one of our participants of a peacekeeping mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo. "We," he means our members of this mission, "we use all UN equipment," it's from 2009, one comment from the said doctor, "which, according to their account, for us six," as many as there were then, "is exporting $700,000 on an annual level." That the equipment is possibly engaged, and the vehicles, along with all of our people, here, you see, how much it is, and how much more money it is. That is why I say that planning is necessary, given that there has been a continuity and all the other consequences, as well as the situation in our defence forces which is what it is, but in the coming period, it is necessary to plan participation with a certain greater quantity of people, with our equipment and medical, various weapons and tools, and the entire financial structure would be much easier on the subject of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, specifically the Government, or the Republic of Serbia. The man, in the end, says, "And who here is smart, do we who have no tools and weapons on the ground with us, for the reason that we are present on such teams or armies of the countries mentioned?" ''A further comment on the participation of our members in peacekeeping missions, which is that the presence of military forces within the UN mission in a particular region opens doors to our entrepreneurs. And citing this case from the Democratic Republic of the Congo at the time of six months of participation of this member of the mission, three mixed Serbian-Congoan companies have been created, so that this way of participation in peacekeeping missions that I am undermining is being organised by the UN for countries, and our country in this case, too, can be useful. I must, once again, finally say that the position of the Serbian Progressive Party on this subject, that participation in peacekeeping operations by our members of the armed forces, or defence forces, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, may and should be exclusively, as currently under the auspices of UN peace operations under the auspices of the constitution, but only when it comes to other operations, of the type of Afghanistan, involving other political, military, NATO-type alliances, is not to be played with. In the end, this topic can be put before citizens, so if it is the mood of citizens that our members should participate in such operations, we will always be in favour of the position of most Serbian citizens to respect. But once again I appeal to the respect of the Constitution, and unrelated to what our position is, but related to the position of most Serbian citizens, we believe that the presence of our forces is allowed exclusively in the composition of UN peacekeeping operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41583	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a defence minister, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41584	I'm sorry you weren't in the O.R. all the time, but I don't know where in the Constitution it's defined that our forces have to go under cover or under the flag of the UN? If you tell me in which member, we may be mystifying this thing, as we plan to participate in peace operations and with the EU, as our country's final destination, or final destination in our membership. What you were reading earlier that he was saying, if I understood, Colonel Serbia's Army, only shows that our ministry no longer has the discipline it had before and that it's open to public communication. Otherwise, what he said, it may even be banned somewhere, because it deals with politics, and they are forbidden to deal with politics. Are we going to send our members into old equipment, then charge that equipment, or are we going to send in the equipment we have, or are we going to rent the equipment, it's not the job of a member of the Army, on the one hand. I wonder, if you support that criticism when he asks who's smart, how would you, if we didn't have the money to buy new equipment – you think we should send them in the old one? You know how, it's my responsibility that they will go on a peace mission and I can't allow myself to direct our army without proper equipment, protection, ballistic systems or whatever, even if we have to pay more than we could if we were to buy. The fact is that this year the budget voted is lower, let's say for a hundred million, and last year for 150 million than last year, that 80% of the money went to personal expenses, and only 20% of the money was used for purchases and for operating expenses, and that we have in law defined the first mission, which is the defence of the country. If we had spent the money we had on buying funds for peace operations, I'm afraid we'd have a problem, so that you in parliament would challenge the way in which the ministry's budget was spent. So I completely agree that it would be quite logical, opportunised, politically normal, however you wish, positively, to finally define in Serbia how many pieces of cakes, called gross domestic product, are followed by the Ministry of Defence. We've launched an activity to be 2.4% when there are pensioners, and in 2.4% there are tools for both equipment, both for the first and the second missions and for the third missions. However, we received 2.12% this year, which is dramatically less, which is almost 100m euros less than the government's decision and by the Memorandum 2.4%. Believe me, the happiest would be if we could buy new equipment and new equipment to send our soldiers on peace missions. As you said, that equipment is practically charged through the UN, but I will never support, ever, sending our army with old equipment and, then, making money on it. Because you can think – what if something bad happens, who would be responsible for it? One of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41585	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41586	It could be said for today's discussion, the same target – the same distance. Not to correct these mistakes made by Mr. Sutanovac, to bring myself down to these two decisions, to two motions for a decision. You see, the nation's sun warmed up a few years ago, so we won for the secretary of defense of a man who was a Undersecretary of the UN, my Sutanovac escapes. I really don't have any, Mrs. Comic, luck with the ministers of this Mr. Cvetkovic's government. All ministers are on the run. Why am I beinglittled so much? That's amazing. (President: It will be good if they have no luck with you. Look, everybody's running away. Who do I talk to? Dushan Spasoevich here, what am I going to tell him here? (President: The Prime Minister has the right to a short break.) He's not a representative of the government, he's a representative of the Ministry, but well... (President: Representative of the Government...) . Dule, tell Shulet what I'm about to say. So we had no luck with Prvoslav Davinic, and he was the Undersecretary, the fifth, sixth man in the UN in charge of disarmament in the world. Is that right, Savior? That's right. He is a UN pensioner, the largest pension in Serbia to be received. That's right. The defence minister's chosen one, and here, he's been charged in Serbia. Therefore, the UN should have the most moral people, people who hate weapons, who destroy each place to establish planetary peace. You see, he capitulated here and got the indictment. It makes me think that when said – the UN, peace missions, we should call on something called experience. It's said in our people, "whom a snake burns and a lizard fears." It reflects the deepest thinking of one nation and one individual. It's humane to talk about participation in peace missions where peace needs to be established, to maintain peace, to ensure some security. Why? Every armed conflict and one called war is a reflection of the inability of politics to resolve a proper social conflict. When a social conflict cannot be resolved, then it resorts to force. On that force today, people make a tremendous amount of money. One of the biggest problems with the NATO Pact is how to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. It's a system of French radio television. The Americans say, like this, we have nuclear weapons and no one else can have it, everyone who wants to use nuclear energy must be under our control. That's what the boss says. Now I ask the question, where is our place? What we prove with these people of ours who are in the ranks of observers, in our uniforms with foreign flags or are members of medical staff, to be more precise – otters. What does Serbia prove? What's she showing? What force does it show in international frameworks? Nothing. The NATO Pact, more specifically the United States, has major problems providing military forces for all places on the globe, they intend to wage war over their strategic interests and they fiercely criticise their partners from England, France, etc. There public opinion rises, they don't want to see the coffins of their soldiers. They don't want to. I'm not going that far, let me tell you right now. But this symbolic presence you're talking about is terrible for us, and we haven't had a reconnaissance since 1999. There's no such thing as an Earth intellectual ball that didn't condemn the 1999 bombing, it doesn't exist. How do they judge? They say there is no decision of the Security Council, there is no legal, legitimate, nothing, nothing! Violent! For what? Because Rambuje failed the arm-swimming operation. Do you know what Bill Clinton said about the operation – if I were Slobodan Milosevic and I would never accept the conditions offered in Rambuje. So, where are we going? One dimension is our international obligation. No one here slows down what is written in the Constitution and our laws. But nobody forbids us to find and orient ourselves where we are. It seems very devastating to me when the defence minister shows up at the Shop and says: the military will help the citizens of the Shop to resolve the effects of the flood, and the flood that has come out. Then I expect 25,000 soldiers, bags, squares, like, 15 soldiers. Where's your army, people? You lost your army. And this last plane goes down. What do you want to fly to now? Where are you going? Where are we going?- I'm sorry. We can thank you very much – thank you for inviting us, we are currently unable. Why? We have a budget deficit of 201 million dinars. It's a huge expense to us, a huge expense. Are we going to learn anything from these peace operations? Maybe people will learn English. Is someone gonna get a mustache on them? I can doubt it. Why? Here, I'm learning on the basis of Prvoslav Davinić. You gave me the material to doubt. It's a job now, arms sales, soldier sales, illegal soldier sales, it's an even stronger job. This is legal. We're not in that position, that's what we need to really say. We shouldn't call on these polls, because these polls can interpret whoever they want. Have the people in uniform been surveyed, are the citizens, are the mothers, are the fathers, is this, is that, is there still a revolution and anger towards the NATO Pact? Of course there is. There is reluctance, as well as time after World War II. I told you last time about the German ambassador. It says – I have a great time in Belgrade, but only children play – partisans and Germans. So, for generations, this hatred, the intolerability of the Germans, even though our people went to Germany to work, to work temporarily. But it was a reflection of patriotism. Have we forgotten those victims? Have we forgotten all that? Have we forgotten this NATO pact that takes away our Kim from us? Who's funding these armed forces of theirs? Who's training them? NATO Pact. When I say the NATO Pact, it's also peace missions, not to enter now and bid which state in particular. It's that anger that exists with us. It's too soon for these things. I agree, 40-50 years ago, peace operations were quite different, but the world was different, it was bipolar, so the UN Charter was respected. Let's see how the UN Charter is respected when it comes to us. Please, the peace mission was in the UNPA zones, right, in Republika Srpska? Who bombed the radar position? NATO Pact. He was placed on one side in an armed conflict. How do they always put it against us? Everyone says what they did is not legal. It's too soon for this kind of thing. We're not in economic condition to be able to mate like this. We don't know what international reputation and reputation means, if we were to participate in these operations, no matter how modest they are, you can count on the number of military or police members on the fingers of one hand. We, as a state, do not have these potentials that we can help others. Well, you see, we're hugging ourselves, we don't know how to help ourselves. That's the problem. Of course, we have another problem, that's that management structure with us. So, if Bossi Nenadic gives severance only to not work in the state service, so someone chooses her as judge of the Constitutional Court, then no wonder what the Constitutional Court's decision is. We have some other people who are paid not to be in the state service, and now they're ministers. I can justifiably doubt some private interest in this mathematics, what is shown, how much the state, what is not shown, what can be, what can't be, because I simply doubt when I see the tenacity of the stained veins of something pushing. Look, we're a state, this government boasts now of the military industry, as we export weapons, and the whole world sees that it doesn't talk about it. Only with us are the children of former arms dealers becoming bankers. Isn't that right, Mr. Savior? This Chupic, Hipo Alpe-Adria Bank, what was his dad doing? Selling weapons. Do you know how many of us are on the world market of former generals and colonels who are leading arms dealers, Michael's business partners from Kuwait? But everything is known on that market, 90% are Americans, in those 10% are English and all the others who fit in there. Why do we need company like that? We're not for that company. That's why we're not voting for these decisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41587	Ten minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41588	Ladies and gentlemen, as counterpart Krasic said, the position of the SRS is that Serbian soldiers, police officers should not participate in peacekeeping missions in other countries. The main reason is that these peacekeeping missions, even when carried out under the auspices of the UN, bring about the conquering interests of the US and NATO pact. The best example and confirmation of this claim is the so-called peacekeeping mission that the UN, NATO and the United States have been conducting in Serbia's space, Kosovo and Metohija since 1999. What are the results of this mission, which the criminals baptized as "merciful angel"? Twenty thousand tons of bombs dropped on Serbian towns and villages, 3,000 killed, and among them 77 children, about 14,000 wounded, more than 150 destroyed Serbian monasteries and churches, more than 200,000 exiled, more than 500 destroyed or defiled Serbian cemetery and churchyards and, as a result, occupied KIM. The UN-NATO peace mission practically keeps part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia under occupation, and Serbia is sending troops to occupy some other countries and peoples at the expense of the NATO Pact and the United States. This is how we discharge the NATO Pact and indirectly contribute to the occupation of the territory of our own state. It looks totally immoral and a little abnormal. Watch out, the occupied state gives its own soldiers to participate in the occupation of some other states. I remind you that Serbia already had one such experience, 600 years ago, at the time of Stefan Lazarevic's despot, Serbia gave soldiers to fight at the expense of Sultan Bajazit. But it has been 600 years since then, and Serbia at least formally did not respect the NATO pact, as the post-Kosovo Serbia was concerned with Turkish empires. The United States, NATO and the UN, through their quasi-suds in The Hague, argue that Serbia's defence against NATO aggression was a war crime. The government in Belgrade, in doing so, is not only thinking about this present one, but about everything from 2000 to today, to some extent, indirectly accepting that position. Thanks to this, a complete military and political leadership, police commanders of Serbia have been extradited to The Hague tribunal, including NATO's top defence commander against the Slobodan Milosevic pact, which was extradited to The Hague tribunal and killed there. I said all of this to ask one key question -- how is it possible that defending your own country, your own territory, crime, is not a state and national interest, and that participation in the occupation of another state is a peace mission?- I'm sorry. I will take this opportunity to look back on the military co-operation agreement between Serbia and Croatia, signed last Tuesday. Minister Sutanovac said it was a historic agreement. I completely agree with Mr. Secretary. Such an agreement is not signed in the history of international relations. Serbia has become the first country in history to sign a military co-operation agreement with the state to launch a trial before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, accusing it of committing genocide and aggression. Now watch out for one situation, the two states are running a dispute in front of the International Court of Justice, accusing each other of the most serious crimes possible, of killing tens of thousands of people, of persecuting several hundred thousand people, of destroying more than a thousand cities and villages, and signing a military co-operation agreement. Sounds like an unsavoured joke. I understand why the Agreement was signed by the Government in Zagreb. They know that Serbia has indirectly amnested Croatia through this agreement for everything that happened from 1991 to today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41589	People's MP, I ask you to bring the context of what you are exhibiting now into connection with the agenda and to respect Article 103 together. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41590	Mrs. Comic, thank you. I'll take care of your suggestion. It is simply a matter of sending our soldiers to peacekeeping missions around the world and I believe that it is part of that policy in any case and this military agreement on military co-operation signed with Croatia. The bottom line of what I was about to say is that I don't understand what the national national interest of the Republic of Serbia is to sign the agreement, sign similar agreements and direct its soldiers to peacekeeping missions in other countries' territories. Minister Sutanovac said on that occasion – this signing of the agreement represents the end of the war. I'm just asking a question -- is the end of the war for 2,000 Serbian families who are in vain looking for the remains of their loved ones? To return to this topic of sending peacekeeping missions abroad and arming the Serbian Army. Since the theme is the army, there's the topic and the weapon. I have a proposal for a minister and one question. What's this about? On Tuesday, May 4th, this year, against Vladan Ilic, a military bonder from the Great Plane, owner of a funeral equipment store...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41591	People's MP, I now warn you that we are under obligation to respect Article 103 and to speak of the agenda. Dots. The 7th and 8th cannot be associated with the production of weapons and speak of weapons only because it is an army, and the personal example and the personal fates you intend to introduce as an argument, please, to be in direct contact with the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41592	If you allow me five sentences, two minutes of time, I'll bring it into context. So, against this gentleman, a criminal report has been filed for domestic violence. During the intervention with this soldier, police found 12 pieces of firearms. Enough to arm a small military unit. What's amazing is that the man for all 12 tubes had a gun-holding license. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about why I assume that because of the economic situation we're in, Serbia is having trouble arming these units that we're sending to peacekeeping missions, so I thought I'd suggest that Minister Sutanovac use these 12 seized weapons to arm one of these military units that we refer to as peacekeeping missions. I'll finish with one question, by finding out. The house of this gentleman who is a soldier, I have checked, the armies of Serbia, is literally next to the House of Youth in the Great Plan, where they gather daily to dozens of children. Also, I point to the fact that police in Plana against Ilic have filed more charges for domestic violence against their own child. I am finishing with the question - how is it possible that someone in a civilized European state, who accepts European and world standards, directs their military units to establish peace worldwide, gets 12 permits to hold arms, or how is it possible that someone in the Ministry of Defence is not after the 5th, 7th, 10th or 12th requests to issue weapons, why will one man have 12 pieces of weapons? Is it passion, sickness, preparation of conditions for the creation of your own army or something? I end with a question and ask the Minister Sutanovac for an answer – is the military official Vladan Ilic of the Great Plan, who found 12 pieces of weapons, a war deserter and participated in any military exercise? Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41593	National MP, I would like to refer you to the MPs' institute if you would like to receive special notices or explanations. I find it entirely inappropriate to ignore two warnings that you are obliged to respect article 103 and to speak of the agenda. The contents of your presentation almost, well, that no sentence was related to the agenda, which I consider to be demeaning the National Assembly and jeopardizing the reputation of the National Assembly. Please don't do this, do yourself if you don't want to listen to the president's warnings. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that there may be no dilemma, although Mr Sutanovac obviously has no intention of listening to this debate, but because of the citizens of Serbia and other MPs, I have an obligation to clarify a misunderstanding that broke out between Mr Sutanovac, Mr Vlajko Senic and myself. So here's what it says in that famous UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999: "The Security Council"... not to quote everything, "confirms that after withdrawing the agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian military and police personnel will be allowed to return to Kosovo, in order to carry out their duties in accordance with Annex 2". So Mr. Sutanovac honored the MPs of the SRS that they did not know what was said in Resolution 1244. However, from what I've read, it may be quite the opposite conclusion that unfortunately, the defence minister of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41595	People's MP, and I ask you to speak in accordance with Article 103 and do not abuse the right to apply for a word at the time and during the session when talking about agenda points on topics that were already in the previous course of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41596	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, for the intervention, but I hope you agree with me that this is a very important thing. Mr. Minister claimed that Resolution 1244 does not say anything – the Serbian military and police. Here, now I read you to write. What the SRS has insisted on and what it insists on today is that the current regime in Serbia asks the UN, otherwise, at Resolution 1244 does not say anywhere, and I can quote that if we allow Mrs. Comic, we are not asked anywhere by the commander of KFOR to invite us to come with the military and the police to KIM...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41597	People's MP, I now warn you to take your exposure to the duties of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This part of the sitting stream implies the obligation to talk about the agenda point. The content of your presentation has nothing to do with the subject set out in points 7 and 8 of our agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41598	At the risk of perhaps getting some kind of warning or other sanctions, Mrs. Komic, allow me, this is an extremely important thing when it comes to the use of the Serbian Army in international multinational operations, so it cannot be said that one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, our state, is not covered by Serbian military and police personnel, as it stands in Resolution 1244, and that it is without purpose, Serbia would be precedent in the international community to have its troops in Congo, Afghanistan, Haiti or anywhere, and that there is no Serb soldier or policeman in cities, and villages in KIM. If you find me any country in the world that participates either under the flag of the UN or under the flag of NATO in an international peace or quasimir operation without its military or police being present in the entire state territory, I will be deeply grateful to you. Unfortunately, or fortunately, such countries except the Republic of Serbia do not exist. Now I ask one question, which is asked by my distinguished colleague Mr Krasic – what is the purpose of having several doctors or several military observers in Haiti, Lebanon or anywhere in the world, and that the Serb people in KIM live in the conditions of the concentration camp, and that no state body, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, government, has ever in any way asked the UN to allow Resolution 1244 to be implemented? Mr. Vlajko Senic said there are only twice when it comes to the return of the Serb military and police to KIM, and given the broader context of Serbia's participation in international multinational operations, he said - either war or be part of NATO. The SRS said there's a third time, and we repeat it this time, so there's a third time. For the third time, respect for the UN Charter, respect for international law and respect for an initiative that came from the East, a brotherly and friendly country, which is the initiative of the Russian president from 2009, to sign a European security treaty. So, the initiative expired last year, and it was put on a hundred practically all European states, including NATO member states. What is the essence of this initiative? The Russian Federation, in the image of its president, is offering to all countries in Europe, I repeat, and NATO Member States, to sign a 'European Security Treaty', which will rest on the principles of the UN Charter. This means respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states signatories of this new 'European Security Treaty'. It's a peaceful policy. These are mechanisms to resolve disputes between countries in a peaceful way, conferences, consultations, all possible means, just not weapons. Recently, this initiative has also come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and this initiative has been introduced to all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A roundtable was recently held on 24 April this year, which addressed all those issues related to the Russian Federation's initiative, which is to establish a new system of collective security in Europe that will absolutely comply with principles, with the UN Charter standards. The question asked by the SRS is this – why does the president of the Republic of Serbia keep silent about it? Why does the Serbian government keep quiet about it? Why would the Department of Defense keep that quiet? Why are you silent MPs of the ruling coalition? Why don't they say that there is another way to preserve the security of the Republic of Serbia on very unstable international political occasions, which does not mean directly or indirectly involving Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41599	National MP, the content of your presentation is still out of line with Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The content of your presentation is a topic for parliamentary issues, for a session with the current subject, but I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to talk about the topic on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41600	Mrs. Komic, as my humble mind allows, I am really trying to talk about the points that are on the agenda. But since you are obviously insisting that there must be no talk here about so-called banned topics, there is taboo topic and one taboo topic is – don't accidentally say that there is a request, or an initiative by Russia to establish...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41601	People's MP, I warn you there is a member of 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which obliges me to remind the MP that he must speak of the agenda. With the obligation to take care of the agenda, I reminded you that the Medvedev initiative – Sarkozy, which has passed several instances, can be spoken in the form of a session on the topic or by asking a parliamentary question. With your doubts about whether there is another country that participates in military operations and is not sovereign throughout the territory, you can also go to other places. Article 103 obliges you to speak on the subject of the agenda. It has nothing to do with taboo topics, nothing to do with the subject, anything to do with our shared self-discipline and our mutual respect for this home. I'm really asking you to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41602	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will stick to the agenda theme in a way that is supported by Mrs. Comic. Here, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what is written in the decision on the participation of a member of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2010: "The participation of a member of the Serbian Army in multinational operations during 2010 in the United Nations Peace Operation in the Democratic Republic of Congo (MONUC); in the United Nations Peace Operation in the Republic of Liberia (UNMIL); in the United Nations Peace Operation in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire (UNOCI); in the United Nations Peace Operation in the United Nations in the Republic of Cyprus (UNFICYP); in the United Nations Peace Operation in the Republic of Cyprus (UNFICYP). As you can see, point 1. The motion for a decision is exclusively mentioned in UN peacekeeping operations. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will now move on to an explanation, so you will see that it talks about NATO and that it makes sense in the context of the discussion of these two agenda points. This is what the Serbian government wrote in an explanation of why these two decisions should be voted on. He says this: "The membership of the Republic of Serbia in the Partnership for Peace opens up additional opportunities for its more active involvement in multinational operations under the auspices of the United Nations and the European Union. ''Now I ask you, Mrs. Comic, find me a link between the text of the motion for a decision and an explanation? I repeat again, as my humble non-ministrian mind allows, only the UN is mentioned here. How is the text of the proposal for a decision mentioned by the UN, and in an explanation of why the decision should be adopted suddenly comes out of the Partnership for Peace? As far as I know, the Partnership for Peace is a NATO-led military programme, not a UN military policy programme, so, if these are UN-led peacekeeping operations and with the mandate of the UN, I may not understand, but then I ask government representatives or representatives of the ruling coalition to explain to us what the UN and their missions have to do with all the countries listed with the Partnership for Peace and what do these peace operations have to do with control and under the mandate of the UN with the EU? As far as I know, the EU is a predominantly economic organisation of European countries. How does the peace mission in Cyprus and Lebanon have something to do with the Partnership for Peace and the EU? When the Serbian government makes a connection between the UN and the Partnership for Peace, it is legitimate. When SRS MPs say that under a UN firm, in fact, there is a direct or indirect involvement of the Serbian Army under NATO's command in operations around the world, which are all but peaceful, then – Mr. MP, you can't say that. Then the Serbian government should withdraw the motion for a decision and should only be talked about the UN. No talk about the Partnership for Peace, no talk about the EU, no talk about NATO. Turns out only the Serbian government has the right to some issues. When these topics are opened by MPs of the SRS or some other political party that is not part of the ruling coalition, then you cannot talk about it. So this is all, dear citizens, and it's all connected. It is very clear to you, however, that those who hold a session of the National Assembly have a task or have imposed themselves on them to prohibit speaking of certain topics. The Russian Federation's initiative is something that really contributes to peaceful policy in Europe. As much as the representatives of the government or individual representatives of the ruling coalition are trying to convince us that NATO is a humanitarian, peaceful, humanitarian organisation, we do not believe and are not the ones who attacked the NATO Pact, but NATO is the pact that attacked the Serb people, not only in the SRJ, but also in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. Also, something that is being planted by the SRS is that when we talk about the NATO pact being an offensive, aggressive, international military organization, which has nothing to do with the spirit of the UN Charter, then we are told—then you are attacking our Greek brothers, our Spanish friends and all other NATO members, who have not recognised the independence of KIM. I'm sorry, but that's not true. Well, the Greeks didn't come up with the idea of bombing the SRJ, nor did they come up with the idea of bombing the Republika Srpska or the Republika Srpska Krajina. I doubt it was the Spanish who thought that in 2001 they were occupying Afghanistan. I doubt that, right, the Slovaks have anything else to do in their lives, but to keep the fields of macaque in Afghanistan, but that's all the facts. I was very precise, and all the MPs of the SRS were very precise when they spoke about what NATO's role was in crisis situations in the world and in crisis situations. Well, of course, it's clear to all of the young children that in an alliance like NATO, the US and Romania, for example, they are absolutely not equal and that all Americans are asking themselves. Go to Greece, I hope you flew there, ask any Greek officer if he can go to the bathroom and wash his hands without asking an American liaison officer first, whether he can do it or not. Then we come here to the National Assembly and it says -- that now you attack Greeks, attack Romanians, Spanishs, etc. We're not attacking these countries, we're just saying that those who have created aggression against the SRJ, the Republika Srpska, the Republika Srpska, Iraq, Afghanistan, who are now planning a new hotspot, are primarily the United States and Great Britain, and we didn't want to say at all that our enemy is an entire American people or that our enemies are all citizens of Great Britain. Of course not, but that the leadership of these countries during the 1990s, and even now, is leading a policy that is all but peaceful, which is everything but non-compliance with international law, that is a fact. After all, if both the United States and Great Britain are as great friends as we have been told here, how come they haven't made, uh, exactly, any move in the interests of the Serbian and Serbian people, such great friends, and nothing to do for Serbia? How come all of a sudden Hashim Thaci, Haradinaj drug dealers, murderers, thugs, all of a sudden, for these same U.S. and Great Britain human rights fighters, for democracy, for freedom? They are received for official visits, given some distinctions, political legitimacy. The whole Serbian, state, political military and police summit was delivered to The Hague tribunal and then said – these are our friends, they want us well. Excuse me, those who allow drug trafficking from Afghanistan, to Serbia, to South America, are not friends to anyone, not to American citizens, not to British citizens, and especially to Serbian citizens. And, let no one convince us that hundreds of tons of heroin and other opiates coming from Afghanistan can come to Serbia or they can come to any other country in the world without NATO and NATO command in Afghanistan. So, here it is quite clear, I will conclude that my colleagues could say something about these points of the agenda, it is absolutely clear, whenever the Serbian government says – we should participate in international peace operations under the UN, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, consider it an implicit call that Serbia must, because it is allegedly imperative of time, to enter NATO. Whoever reads Resolution 1244, who is familiar with the Russian Federation's initiative to sign a European security treaty, will see that it is not, simply, correct. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41603	18 minutes have been used. The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army and members of the Interior Ministry in multinational operations in 2010. When proposing this decision, you called for Article 140. The Constitution, in order to give some legitimacy to this area, is also referred to by the Defence Act, namely the provisions of this law, which say that the defence of the country is also achieved by participating in multinational operations. In these opening arguments, you are also saying that it is the obligation of each UN Member State to send its troops into the missions formed within the UN. And now, if we formally watch this, what we would say here in the Assembly of this decision is formally and legally possible, but now one important and one crucial issue is being raised – does the state of Serbia and Serbian citizens benefit from such a decision? We in the SRS are deeply convinced that the state of Serbia has absolutely no use for this, on the contrary, to suffer only certain damages, therefore we will not support such a thing and we are opposed to sending our troops on missions formed in 2010. The parliament is due to make a decision to send a representative of the defence ministry to six different missions, and I have noted already representatives of the interior ministry for two peacekeeping missions. The bill shows that certain financial resources are needed for these missions. And when the proposals for these decisions are looked at, when they are compared and summed up, it turns out that a little more than 300 million dinars must be allocated from the Republika Srpska budget, and since we know what the economic opportunities in Serbia are, the major economic crisis, these funds are not so small. I personally believe that these funds could have been used in a much better and more useful way. I'll just remind you that a few days ago in a town in southern Serbia, in Leskovac, a woman died of hunger because the social aid she was about to receive was too late. Unfortunately, I'd like it to be the only case, but I'm afraid there'll be more or there will be, except the public doesn't know about them. These operations we send our representatives started in a different period of time, so, let's say, the first operation that started here back in 1964, when UN Security Council Resolution decided to establish peace on the Greek-Turkish separation line. We have, on condition, the youngest operation, and the decision was made in 2007 to send forces to the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic. When the proposals talk about reasons for making such decisions, then it is said that the mission gives, listen carefully – an active contribution to building a favourable security environment. As far as I know the geography, none of these countries represent anywhere nearer, even the wider environment of the Republic of Serbia, so I think this argument is absolutely illogical and contradictory. The security environment you're talking about here is being experienced and appreciated in another way, first of all by how capable our army is and how respectable it is to our real environment, our neighbours, and to those who took over and occupied a part of our territory, of course, is the territory of Kosovo. Unfortunately, we all know that, as well as the citizens of Serbia, what our army is today, and with the army that we have today, no one appreciates us or respects us. We know who's responsible for our army being like this. This is the current government, though, I have to be honest, and all the authorities since 2000 have been working to bring down and destroy our army, that the defense system is breaking down to the lowest possible branches and, unfortunately, you have succeeded. Of course, the concept of this Dossovska government and Dossovska majority is – we will solve the old by diplomacy, diplomatic means, one diplomatic offensive, we will solve everything, there has been a lot of conflict, etc. And this diplomatic offensive of yours, and your diplomatic efforts and your diplomatic successes, we had the opportunity to see yesterday in Brussels, when one of the ministers in the government was present, about some decisions concerning our EU accession. All these missions that we're talking about here, essentially, have the same goal, only their tasks are different and with different tasks they perform. So, let's say, we have in one case, that the mission has the task of establishing a rule of law and, let's say, in Lebanon. In another case, it is preventing illegal trade and the implementation of the peace agreement. In the third case, it is an air evacuation of injured and ill mission members. In the fourth case, it is the control of the census and preparation for the upcoming elections. It refers to the Ivory Coast and so on, so I don't count it anymore. Now, speaking of preparations for the upcoming elections in the Ivory Coast, I don't see why members and representatives of our armed forces are being sent here. We have 'Cesid', we have 'Resistance', they are determined for the elections that were held in our country and for the elections in some other countries. I don't see Mr. Milivojevic here, he knows it best. I apologize, Srdjan Milivojevic knows it best and, of course, for this mission, help with the election, so that would be a much better job for Cesid and Resistance especially. It wouldn't cost us anything, because we know who's funding that organization. The decisions then cite both the assessment and the assessment of the state of security situation in certain countries and generally say the situation is stable, except for the Haiti situation, where, for understandable reasons, due to a devastating earthquake, it cannot talk about a stable situation. So I ask one question, if the situation is really that stable, then why send troops to those missions? For example, the situation in Cyprus is stable, so you evaluate it, and for more than 46 years international troops have been there. If that situation were so stable, well, in 46 years and more, I guess it would have stopped the need to send those troops. What I'm trying to say and to underline is that our people who are being sent to these missions are made up of contingents from other countries, such as Norway, Italy, Poland, Spain, Hungary and so on. I ask the question, here, to the present minister, if you are already intending and if you intend to send our people to peacekeeping missions, I think it would be much better if instead of these six or eight missions, where our people, for a few of them, were split into certain contingents, you formed a Serbian contingent with our members and sent him to one of these countries or to a country where there are such needs. Or, let's say, you send our people or our mission into the Nish Emergency Centre. You know, this center is formed and it's already on the basis of a decision signed by representatives of the Serbian and Russian sides and, when you need some elections and some political points, you mention this centre, and here's an ideal opportunity for this centre to promote in this way and to send people from that centre to that mission. And like this, a few people in one contingent, a few people in another contingent, they're all other people's contingents and, literally, that way, no one really takes it the right way, and basically, we go in there like some kind of whisper or I don't know how. Simply, in my opinion, this kind of sending is only a demeanor, first of all, and members of our army that has a glorious tradition and, of course, our country. To conclude, I ask Mr. Sutanovac – is there also how many representatives of the armed forces, therefore, the Ministry of Defence and the police, in these missions from the ranks of those people who directly participated in Kosovo in the opposition to NATO aggression? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41605	Eleven minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41606	Dear Ambassador Savic, I have not heard such a contentious discussion in the Serbian parliament for a long time. The fact that you've spoken here in seven years as an MP, I haven't had a chance to hear it, really. You said our soldiers were a whisper, until you said a Greek soldier couldn't go to the bathroom unless he asked an American officer. But it's nothing, you said another worse thing, which is that no one appreciates us or respects us. It's possible that's the case, if you're thinking of you. But if you were referring to the Army of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, I will tell you that we have signed 17 defence co-operation agreements over the past three years. In Serbia, for the first time in history, the defence minister was China. In a month's time, the Chief of Staff of the Russian Federation came, for the first time, he was the Chief of Staff of the United States Army. As of Monday, I travel to Libya with a delegation. Also, in August of the month, we travel to China. After 25 years, I had the opportunity to lead a delegation of the Ministry of Defence to visit the United States. And when I visited China, where I was with a delegation in 2008, we were received by the Vice President of China, Mr. Shi Jinpeng. It's hard for you to understand our international position, because the way you talk about our army as "shuts," says that you are not aware of the very weight of words spoken in parliament or you want to do evil, which is even worse, people who have the courage, the desire and the will, the knowledge, who are trained to go into peace missions, they are fully convinced that they are going on a peace mission to protect your interests, your children's interests, the interests of our children, the interests of the future of this entire country. I don't know, really, if there's such a moral hypocrisis here that we can get those who are willing to sacrifice their lives for the defense of the country to be called "shut-ups," but even less, I can understand that it's not being submitted to those who don't need help in the 21st century. You spoke inspiredly a moment ago, to me surprisingly, but you don't say at any point that in these peace missions, almost all countries of the normal developed world are. You're talking about NATO activities, you're talking about heroin, you're talking about cocaine, you're talking about everything and everything, and you're not saying that they're there on peace missions, both the Chinese and the Russians. Are they the same ones who want to join NATO, as you say we want them to? Do they have any hidden intentions that you're going to reveal to us here by saying that you have information from the Russian Secret Service, which you're going to let us know? Imagine, the information from the Russian Secret Service that you're going to put in our eyes?- I'm sorry. Serbian citizens also think that this is what is needed in parliament to be the most legislative body and where serious people who talk about serious matters should sit. Peace missions go beyond military character. Peace missions have one specific political weight that is on the international agenda, to say that all the countries of the world participate in them. Peace missions have one very pronounced personal and emotional thing. On a voluntary basis, members of peacekeeping missions opt to protect our country's interest outside the country's borders. I believe it's as hard as it is when someone who has a job in Serbia and has to leave his family in Serbia, even if he went as a gaster for six months abroad, and imagine what it's like to go to some Chad, where the temperature is 50 degrees, and then, some, MP Savic tells you that you're "shut up". At the very least, that's offensive. I don't understand why we're having this discussion here, but I'm telling you that no one is going to go on a peace mission that's not dressed, who's not prepared, who doesn't have a certified relationship with peace missions, who doesn't know languages, who isn't trained, who isn't trained and who doesn't volunteer. I express my deep respect for all of them, and I am very happy and pleased that there are people who are aware that for the interests of the entire country they should protect our interests beyond the borders of our country, but also, you must know every moment that all these peace missions are extremely difficult and difficult, and that they risk their lives with their very presence on the ground. Please, if you have a problem with the political option that I am leading and with the government to direct that anxiety and that negative energy towards us, not to insult the people who wear the uniform with honor and who swore to this country that they would defend it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41607	Right on line, MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41608	Mr Sutanovac, I am not "some" MP Savic, but an MP who is, at least formally equal to all 250 MPs in this assembly. At least I haven't addressed you as a person in a negative context. Obviously, you didn't understand what I was talking about: I said it would be better, when you already had the intention and when you sent the contingents, that instead of these six missions you formed a contingent under Serbian name, under the Serbian flag, under the flag of the state of Serbia, and that in this way our country is being promoted, and that you, in fact, in these six or eight missions in teams, sub-topics, read there the motions of the decision, will be part of the subtits, not even of the team, but of the subtits, and when I said that, but I had fenced it before and said that the Serbian army had permanent traditions. When I said that no one values us I didn't mean China, China is our historical friend, I didn't mean Russia either, it's our traditional friend, but here, today or yesterday, I don't know exactly, the guest of Serbian President Sulejman Tihic is an official representative of BiH politics, and you remember only a year or a year ago what he said about Serbia, about Serbia's Army, Vlado Komsic is a member of BiH's representation. That's what I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41609	The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41610	I can take it really as a meaningful opinion whether the question is that we should go on a peace mission with six times as many people or six with less, but that's something we don't define. So we show our needs and, in particular, for the Cyprus mission, we are ready to participate in a larger number, but they simply tell us that the need is so much and that we should participate to that end. We left eight years ago. We're late for the world, but we're trying to adjust and get there. What you are now trying to explain to me here, and that is, that we should attach ourselves to some statements two years ago, four years, six years ago -- the fact that Mr. Tihic came to Belgrade today and that talking to the president of Serbia is positive. I understand that a political platform can be at odds, at negatives, at promoting a pessimism, on anti-Europeanism, on anti-nato, but I can't understand that politics can be against the agreement. A co-operation agreement, is there anything more beneficial that anyone can sign on behalf of the family, the state, their friends, the government? Mr. Saviæ, you're not an MP. But this man on a peace mission when he listens to the radio and says, "Who's that guy over there, this Savic who says that?" "Some" MP. Believe me, for him, you're no longer any less, like he's "stitching" you're not "no more" to him. But I think we're making a lot of progress. We're talking about taking part in UN missions. At the time when you decided on the fate of this country, we were expelled from the UN. Did you forget that? Today you have a comment on whether it's NATO, not NATO. But we've evolved politically in time since you've been out of power. We're a member of the UN. We are seriously discussing our participation and participation in global peace. I understand that it was unimaginable for you, because you were infected from all over the world, and the UN couldn't get you out of just enemies. Everyone said you're not for the UN. Just because we're in a position to talk as a partner today, not as a user, as a security distributor in the world, that's a huge step. Believe me, it's good for you, too, no matter how bad it may seem to you. It's good and beneficial for both you and your children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41611	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand why you, Mrs. Komic, allow this tone in the National Assembly, and why do you allow people's MPs who have the opposite attitude from Mr. Minister to insult themselves?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41613	People's MP, no offense has been made. Please try to listen to what is said quite impartially together. I can tell you again, if you'd like me to explain and ask you to refrain from accusing me of being allowed here to insult the MPs. National MP Nikola Savic has said qualifications about members of the Yugoslav Army. National MP Nikola Savic expressed qualifications on countries and states participating in peacekeeping missions and the MP was not interrupted once as he expressed his qualifications. Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac told the MP that he insulted members of the Yugoslav Army, which is not an insult to the MP, but a comment on the contents of what the MP was saying. He cited as a government proposal that all countries participate in peacekeeping missions and reminded of the importance of peacekeeping missions as he sees them as a proposing. After that, MP Nikola Savic was granted the right to reply, and that was the only part of the mutual exchange of views when MP Nikola Savic was on the verge of breaking the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in an inappropriate way expressing himself on Serbian neighbours. So I ask you to be careful when you measure the weight of the public word or the accusation you make to me or anyone else who is involved in the session. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41614	Dear Serbian citizens, the defence minister said -- what will our soldier in Chad now think when he hears on the radio that "some" MP Savic says this or that. Imagine, Serbian citizens, what that same soldier in Chad will say when he hears that "some" defence minister is sending him to Chad, and little, little, his planes are falling in Serbia. Two people drowned in the Shop and no one reacted... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41615	People's MP, I remind you of what a straight line means. The right to a replica means that you have the right to clarify the position expressed by another participant in the session or that you are offended, so you have the right to defend yourself. What you're doing right now is abuse of the right to replication. I warn you not to do this because it is by the members of the Rules of Procedure which obliges us to conduct one another prohibited. You have the right to reply to what the minister who presented has challenged to you as a request for the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41616	All right, Mrs. Comic, since it was about Mr. Sulejman Tihic in BiH, if you please, Mr. Sutanovac is a minister in the government who, a few days ago, referred to the court in London in the process of handing Ejup Ganic to the Republic of Serbia, in which he is admitted to be in BiH before 19 May... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41617	People's MP, the content of your current exposure has nothing to do with... Please don't throw it away. If you think that the right to free word is at the same time and the right to abuse free word, then we have a problem in understanding what is whose right and as far as it reaches whose freedom in the abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you, People's Messenger. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, followed by MP Ljubisa Petkovic, the last registered speaker. The total time is available for 16 minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41618	How much time, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41619	People's MP, I just said!
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41620	Repeat, I didn't hear, please!
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41621	You have 16 minutes and 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41622	Madam President, Mr. Minister, no minister from the Government of the Republic of Serbia has treated MPs this way since I was a member of Parliament. This is your theme. You were a folk MP, but you never performed like this until you came to power as minister. Please, I know countless ministers from your party, but no minister has ever treated the MPs this way, that he has humiliated them, insulted them, and scolded them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41623	National MP, you are required to listen if the chairman has an obligation to take care of the agenda. If any participant had offended the session, he would have been warned by the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it would have been explained to him why he had been warned and would have been punished by warning. Since that has not happened, I ask you not to lead the public astray and not to deceive the MPs present in the hall, all the time, so as not to disrespect this session and the National Assembly by telling lies. Also, please don't throw it away. No MP who was reminded of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure was without the total time available to him. So, you don't have to remind me, you sign up and get the word, and you'll never get the total amount of time that's meant to be exposed to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41624	So, Serbian citizens, as you can see, from the proposal for a decision delivered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to this respected assembly, which concerns the participation of military members in multinational operations in 2010, I see there are a lot of problems. As a People's MP, and I believe that a large number of MPs can assess this way of dialogue in the National Assembly and that their court is giving – whether this is necessary or not to Serbia. Therefore, we should go to Congo, Liberia, Côte d'Ivoire, Chad Central African Republic, the Republic of Lebanon and Cyprus. I ask the question to Mr. Minister -- why don't we give the complete unit, which will be under our command, into the peace forces, well, even if it was the strength of the water? Your explanation that you just gave in response to Mr Savic's discussion, I don't think it's convincing. For a particular country one unit should be sent, I said, even if it was in the strength of one water. Even Montenegro, Mr. Minister, you probably know, has a separate prepared unit, a rank company, as a whole, that will be sent to Afghanistan by the platoons, but with its people and their command, well, it doesn't matter, even if the platoon is in command one. The question arises – will our member, who participates there be allowed to point out the Serbian flag and carry the Serb symbol, will he not be punished for it? Don't convince me, and you'll probably after this, you'll be giving away the replicas incessantly which I think are unnecessary. Why do we degrade the acts of the Serb army, and individually send individuals or groups of officers to other units of the other states, we will not actually respect our rank as captain or major, but he will have to respect the calling and knowledge of some instructor from that country. That's what's going to happen to our police, she's a very capable police officer, but in this country, the police have their hands full. This kind of thing is inadmissible because of our indiscretion, how some countries apply some standards, and in our near past you know that we had instructors who even slapped colonels and generals, and now I wouldn't list them, that's probably familiar. Mr. Minister, answer the question to the citizens of Serbia and the officers and the officers, and to the reservers and active persons, as training is done by members of the military who participate and who will participate in peace operations. I ask the question, what will be the training of this people? What are they supposed to look after? How can they fight smuggling, illicit trafficking in certain countries to which they should go? Under what curriculum and programme will this be question number one, to which do you avoid answering, this training will be done? Give the People's MPs the program, here, Mr. Minister, to give this programme to the MPs, so that the MPs can be convinced, on which program we now need our members to train. What current knowledge of these people can we apply to peacekeeping missions to countries where they go? What are they supposed to do there? To protect the regime and power in some countries, but somewhere in a brutal way. To put the natives to rest, the natives, to fight religious fanatics, to protect natural resources, oil wells, to guard the fields of narcotics, to fight smuggling and illicit trafficking, to protect the body, where they go. I ask, are our soldiers ready for that? Are we dressed for that? The defence minister recently said, and this is very important for you to know, gentlemen MPs, citizens of Serbia -- with their presence in peacekeeping missions, we are raising our military's combat and armed forces' lives. Now, if that's the case, I'm telling you, there's nothing from the Serb army! It is known in history that the Serb army was preparing and training, not to repeat. Read history a little bit, and you will see what the Serbian army has done in history, how it preserved the state, as it defended 1912, 1914, 1918, well, in 1941-1945, even in this last war that was in this space. You know we've had a number of agencies dealing with various security, various monitoring, various speculations, but whoever's working in those agencies should take care of that. I'm asking a question and I'm looking for an answer, has one of our senior officials, Mr. Minister, and especially you, as defence minister, or head of state, visited our civilian peacekeeping forces and in which country?- I'm sorry. And I'm saying no one and nowhere! But look, Mr. Minister, in Kosovo and Metohija, well, you'll see that there are no heads of state and the highest civil servant that has not visited soldiers in Kosovo and Metohija, from Sarkozy and beyond. I'm saying that our soldiers are valued in peace missions, that's one, let's say, unacceptable policy. Also, I'd like to ask the question, that the minister pleads on the whereabouts of our soldiers in the peace forces, as well as where are the reports from 1945 to today? Are they still in place, and all these reports came to the Secretary of State for People's Defence, and later to the latter defence ministers, as well as whether they were lagered in a depot in ministries or in Šuplja Stana, where this archive is kept? Ladies and gentlemen, as far as financial support for the armed forces is concerned, she's not enough. Mr. Minister, you can't raise a battlelock with the funds you've received at your disposal when it comes to military forces. Why should we now throw 201 million if we are going to have several members of the peacekeeping force and spend that 201 million, when these funds are needed for the needs of the army in Serbia. Mr. Minister, there are over 500 important objects in Serbia that are not sold, so that apartments and salaries can be provided to military personnel, to reform the army, and thus to raise the military's battle effort significantly? So let us look at what is done in this country and train our army in our country for our needs. Our army needs to get out of these losers' mentalities. You know that well what's happened in the last decades, how our army has passed you. Mr. Minister, these are questions you should give an answer to, and on the other hand, not to lecture me now. I'm sorry, I didn't mean that, but, short and clear questions, let's see: how does our army live and work, how is it provided today material-financed and how is it combat-trained? Because for example, you yourself said that there was a plane crash in the lake, not far from Kragujevac and Kniæ, you saw that plane coming out, and you saw that the army didn't even have a rubber boat in Zajecar to help those citizens they needed. You yourself said that our Air Force combat is not on the right level, but you saw what Romanians are doing, which buys and provides planes for combat closure. I apologize if I took my colleagues a few more minutes. Thank you. These are my observations. I'm sorry there's no more time, but we could talk about this more. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, don't disrespect us like this anymore. I felt very uncomfortable when you were giving your answers. And don't underestimate the MPs so much because no government minister, including your parties, has ever come to disrespect the MPs like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41625	Ten minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. It's available for six minutes. The word is made by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Here you go. He's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41626	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Serbian citizens, the SRS strongly opposes sending the Serbian Army to any peacekeeping missions in which they participate, dominated and commanded by the US and NATO pact forces. It would be more than useful if Mr. Minister would translate what the word "peace mission" means in the current circumstances. Should the Serbian Army be involved in the demarcation of conflicted parties and thus prevent armed conflict or would its superior goal be to participate in aggression against some of our friendly countries, under NATO's pact and America's command? As far as I know, SFRY, as a military neutral country, has been involved in some peacekeeping missions in time, but these missions have been under UN jurisdiction. Today is not the case anymore. To prove to you the claims that are in favor of this thesis, I'm going to give you an example of kiM. On the day of the signing of the military technical agreement in Kumanov, as one of the signatories, British General Jackson said the agreement creates conditions for the suspension of the bombing and deployment of the peacekeeping forces in Kosovo. This year, on 21 May, NATO Secretary-General Rasmussen said in the assembly that NATO is reducing troops in Kosovo. I am now interested – were there peace forces or NATO in Kosovo and Metohija, first as an aggressor against the Serb people, and after the military technical agreement in Kumanovo NATO as the savior of the Serb people? What peace missions and participation of the Serbian Army in these missions are we talking about if the United States and NATO have committed aggression against the SRJ without a UN Security Council decision? Did it seem to you that this act of the United States and NATO have confirmed that they do not respect UN decisions, but when something comes to them, they are very skillfully hiding behind some decisions, and in particular the decisions to refer the peace forces to the areas where the war was caused, where they have left terrible consequences, with several thousand victims, destroyed cities and infrastructure, where they would again be dominant in alleged peace missions, like, god forbids, rescuers? The SRS believes that NATO has never been in a position to calm down and separate conflicted parties, but rather all wars after World War II have sparked and led the US and NATO pact. With the widespread fact that the United States has fought 13 wars since the end of World War II, it is right to ask whether the United States and NATO should participate in peacekeeping missions. Moreover, in not so long ago, the peace mission was almost unarmed and represented a buffer zone between the conflicted parties to prevent armed conflict. Things are different today. The U.S. and NATO first commit aggression to a country and start a war, mostly with mercenaries from other countries, and then they appear in alleged peace missions armed to the teeth, including even using tanks and combat aviation. These aren't peace missions, Mr. Minister! The SRS cannot imagine a Serb soldier being shoulder to shoulder with an occupation British and American soldier, especially commanding an American. The SRS has no objection to Serbia's participation in peacekeeping missions in our friendly states, for example in South Ossetia, where the SRS would even be ready to direct volunteers at the request of the Russian Federation. But the Serbian army's reference to being killed and waged war on behalf of other people's interests, especially the United States, which is the most common culprit for the disintegration of Yugoslavia; American participation in Operation Storm, the attack on Serbs in Republika Srpska, the bombing of Serbian positions in Republika Srpska, the handing over of weapons to Muslims at the time of the embargo, the bombing of Serbia and the occupation of parts of its territory, whose troops are in KIM today, is a real cynicism of one state, its army and the direct recognition of the independence of KIM. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you know the fact that all of America and NATO have done in the last ten years to reduce Serbia's military potential and ability to defend territorial integrity. Today they demand that this maimed army be cannon flesh and clay pigeons for... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41627	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask, do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP Marina Ragush, the authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41628	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Sutanovac, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that today we have had a chance to hear, a really nervous statement from the military minister and I think there are clearly legitimate reasons for that, for which, most likely, only he knows. If we talk about parliamentary culture, Mr. Sutanovac, from the recent past, you know, maybe we, you're right, that's where I agree with you, should disband this Parliament and let you rule smoothly. So, to me, to tell you the truth, it is not clear to you at all how do you find such a kind of courage to, in this way, use stylish figures that are recognizable for certain Belgrade circles, belittle someone who currently, according to May elections, represents a certain group of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41629	Members of the People's Parliament, I remind you that the chairman of the National Assembly is obliged to give a warning in the event of demeaning, insulting or violating the rules of conduct, based on members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or to impose a criminal penalty. So, if you do not have a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you not to make false statements during your presentation. If any of the participants in the session had the exposure that you are describing now, it would be my duty to either warn him or warn him, which wasn't the case. Then I ask you not to mislead the public in Serbia, making up statements that have not happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41630	It's quite clear to me, Mrs. Comic, why this style today. It's really clear to me. I just want it to stay recorded for some other parliamentary compositions of what time we're all working at. If you comment on my political position and my style that you can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41631	People's MPs are not about political attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41632	I can go home.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41633	Please listen to me. I don't comment on the political views of the MPs, neither! It is that you make claims that the Rules of Procedure have been broken and that there is no account of the order of the sitting. Look at the stenogram. I understand that when we have the exposure, it brings a desire to say something we don't mean, just to make it sound good. So, I intervene and only remind myself when the Rules of Procedure is violated. You made claims that are false and I asked you not to. Nothing more and nothing less. The right to a political stance has everyone. Just sign in and you'll get your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41634	Thank you very much. Tell me, when did the SNS participate in the election? That's where we can end any parliamentary debate. When? In May 2008? Mrs. Comić...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41635	People's MPs, I'm warning you now...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41636	You don't know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41637	I warn you of your obligation to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, as is the obligation for me and you. Please refer to the agenda as an authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group. That's what we're all bound to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41638	If you'll let me, I will. Right now you're commenting on something that's my feeling and something that's my style. That's my right, and believe me, I'll be in the dark if you'll let me. So what might be a very big problem with my personal style is, and the next fact that this parliament is showing a state that didn't happen in May 2008 and that may be the reason for the exclusion from further debate. Let me, that's my style. Now I'm going to tie it to the subject. When we talk about military missions in this House, which reflects completely legal political violence, because it reflects a situation that did not take place in the parliamentary elections in May 2008, every discussion and here with Mr Sutanovac is completely in agreement, it is pointless. Now imagine a situation where an MP gives himself the right to do what the Constitution has to do, which is to oversee the work of the executive authority. In return, he gets certain qualifications that don't seem to exist. We can defend certain attitudes with less or more success, but you, as a minister, have no right to comment on someone's political views in such a way without personal insults. I have no intention of teaching you political culture. But if we all here, or at least most of us, are trying to get ready for every debate, in doing so, by rejecting ourselves the possibility, and the cameras are recording everything, so there will be opportunities to look at it, even gestures, ridicules, winks, because we are trying to be evenly conversing on this subject and allow it, Minister, this is the only place where power and opposition meet, the only place we can actually do a better life and everyday being to people in these places. I believe you have animosity to the members of the SRS. You may also have a personal animosity toward some of the people present here. I don't know you personally. I respect the executive position as long as it works for the benefit and interest of Serbian citizens. That is no reason why we do not present our political views during this debate and not launch certain topics. You know, maybe some of us were able to make certain marketing moves, almost, on some shows, so they took it away from themselves because everyone here who is in this Parliament one moment, whether you like it or not, claims to be power. You're not psychic. You can't know what's gonna happen in five or ten years, or a year. Maybe the Americans will finally find that weapon of mass destruction, which was the cause of that terrible action in Iraq. As I recall, Mr. Minister, and yet on the subject of missions in the world, no weapon of mass destruction has been found to this day. To this day, many who said that the weapons of mass destruction were not lost their heads in a magical way. When we talk about peacekeeping missions, what is the most common trap for SRS MPs is calling for the past, a qualification that we would just be fighting, that we are pessimists, that we are for aggressive campaigns. Give me an argument. Did we have a secretary of defense in any government? And believe me, I'm glad to see you and Mr. Dacic working together on projects like this. Or, tell me, when the Security Council approved NATO aggression, when we talk about respecting the international legal umbrella, international institutions, when we talk about the credibility of the mission? Give me one situation when NATO has established peace, not permanently present crises. If you think we're out of this ghost of time, you're wrong, too. If you think the United States isn't the military force number one in the world, we know it, it's a fact and it's not questionable. If you don't think we're for agreements, that's where you're wrong. We did! But in what way? In a way that solves all issues before that. We're the same way for peace missions. We only have bad experience. In Iraq, it happened that Black Water had committed a massacre against innocent civilians and not because SRS MP Marina Ragush said it, but because, even now, a woman who was within that mission spoke very publicly about it, and now she has her head in the bag again, and she is a member of Black Water. These are our experiences we're looking at. You will now convince us that our credibility, the credibility of our army, which is lost here, I'm not saying it was a good legacy, but don't take it out of the historical context, it's impossible for the people of this territory, the territory of the former Yugoslavia for 50 years to live in peace and suddenly, one moment, decide to fight. This is where the wars are imported. It's our political stance that you don't have to agree with. What we're trying to do here is to clear up the situation in the country first. It is really worth the attention to get the final answer to the question – why, every once in a while, the military planes are dropping? What we have the opportunity to listen to as an SRS Parliamentary Group, and believe that we have insiders from your ministry, is the most different information. So far, we haven't gone public with this yet, but, let's say, the most recent information was that the hoses for military systems have been purchased that are completely invalid and out of use. I'm asking you publicly, I didn't want to bring it out without your presence, Mr. Minister, is that correct? Who's importing spare parts, and how are they doing inspections on the operation of the plane? Explain to me. I'm a woman, I'm not a military expert, but I can have a certain political attitude by talking to people who are professional or working on systems. They say this - a remont is done before each run. There really is an inspection. There's a chart and everything is recorded, a military plane, signed by someone, and it's right and it's going in, and it's going down. Will we finally, and we have the right to do so because of the public in Serbia, because of what our constitutional authority is, to get a real report from the commission that will determine the state of our weapons? We think it's very important in the first place, before we go to peace missions, working on our credibility. What about credibility here? Or, perhaps, the answer to the question -- why was "Lazar" estimated at $650,000, if I'm not mistaken, and mostly estimated at $1.2 million? So, what exactly does "Lazar" mean? Or, there's another piece of information that we also have, and we also have our own channels, and I know that's what you're expecting, and let's just say, how certain companies get jobs at the Department of Defense. If you wish, I will deliver this letter to you. Because this letter, received by the SRS, speaks of the Ministry of Defence being needed before sending any member to an international mission to deal with the way it works here in the country. What attracted us to attention, and I will try for time only to list some of the companies mentioned here, let's say, the American company Senchuri, which formed of the Shore company in Cyprus "Kep Lok", which is the founder of Bullit, and it is, again, the representative of the American company "Sencheriz" for these premises, its director is a certain Mr. Vujaničić, "Bulit" and its director are determined and engaged to oversee and manage the preparation of ammunition in military warehouses: Zabela, Bogovaja and Bubanj Potok, Toplički Uprist, Ralja and Kremna. Let me remind you, and I assume you already know, it's a committee contract number 173095-8. I'll get you this information, and you'll have a chance to read it in detail. Because this was delivered to us by someone who was apparently very well-versed in your ministry's affairs. Because of the public, and I expect your good answer to this question, you will not, of course, resent it because we are, indeed, interested in the credibility of the Ministry of Defense, perhaps this information is completely wrong, but, behold, the opportunity to deny it. We may be in complete error with this, but there's a chance that you're denying it, and I guess that's the way for you and I to exchange political views. On June 20th 2007, following competitive documentation number 1853-114 of 8 June 2007, a direct contract was held at the Supply Authority. In this case, the job was already agreed and intended for the Evako company, which did not participate at all in the aforementioned written competition and direct contract, nor bought out the competitive documentation. On 19 February 2008, the sale of ammunition to Evako was awarded under commission number 1730958 to the company "Evako". The Evako company is otherwise a limited-responsibility company. The owner of the company is a foreign citizen, Mr. Konrad Cencic, who has been working with Mr. Ilija Filipovic and Mrs. Mira Milojkovic in his time. I assume you know these people. Third, the Evako company had no buyer, a known buyer. She offered goods to numerous companies, both foreign and domestic. Although she had no buyer, Evako with permission from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development of the Republic of Serbia No. 408, since 08 October 2008, gives consent to the export of ammunition to the buyer "Master Canada", and that licence follows the formal order of the buyer named "Evako" No. 001/08, as of July 28th 2008. How "Evako" got an export licence without a contract with the Master, you'll probably explain now. What is also very important is that on March 12th 2009, Evako and Master of Canada sign an agreement No 01/2009 on the purchase of ammunition worth nearly seven million dollars and work to open an credentials compliant with the conditions. Let's move on. On 25 March 2007, two days before the meeting, held on 27 March 2003 in the premises of the Ministry of Defence, the material resources sector, representatives of the Ministry of Defence attended, headed by Mr Filipovic, representatives of the commissioners, the Evako company and representatives of the US company "Senceri Arms International Incorporated". At the mentioned meeting, which took place on Friday afternoon, those representatives agree to extend the commission contract with Evako under the following conditions: that "Evako" should sell the ammunition to the US company mentioned at lower prices than it sold to the "Master" from Canada, that the company "Bulit" and Mr Nebojsa Lojancic are engaged to monitor and prepare the ammunition, to make payments to the agreed dynamics immediately after obtaining the Serbian export licence by 15 May, and the rest by the end of October 2009. In return, the defence ministry will not charge the 5 per cent fine for the contract failure. We're taking this opportunity to clarify these issues because we're almost having an "Satellite" affair. I guess something like this will be one of the topics...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41639	People's MPs, please bring the contents of your presentation into contact with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41640	That's exactly what I'm doing. If you listen to me very carefully...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41641	I've been listening very carefully to you for 14 minutes, and I'm asking you to put everything you've stated on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41642	I will, if you'll let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41643	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41644	So the Evako company will not charge for the storage and storage of ammunition due to the non-execution of the contract. Assistant Secretary of Defense, Mr...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41645	Please get in touch before the end of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41646	That's exactly what I'm doing. This is the 15th minute. You can't concentrate on me, since I'm the one who's got the cool and rational attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41647	I have no intention of de-concentrating you. People's MPs, I have the sole obligation to remind you that you must take your exposure to the duties of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's my only obligation and nothing else. Your concentration and your political attitude are not the subject of my work. The theme of my work is the obligation not to allow the demeaning of the National Assembly, that the MP thinks that he can be disrespected by a member of 103 and that he can speak of anything he wants. He can't, because he's binding us both. So you have five minutes left, and I ask you to sign up and tie up your exposure to points 7 and 8 of the agenda so far. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41648	Thank you so much for giving me my time back. That's what I'm trying to do, only if you let me. Believe me, I always bring everything into a relationship, so that's how I bring this into connection with the credibility that's mentioned from the beginning. After all, Mr. Sutanovac is here, he can place himself in a way that is recognizable, you don't have to draw attention to me to answer the subject and my job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41649	People's MPs, I'm warning you now, I'm obliged to distract you because in 15 minutes of your presentation, you haven't touched the point in a single word. 7th and 8th agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41650	How could I not? That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41651	National MPs, with insight into the stenogram, with careful listening, I claim that in the 14th minute I was forced to remind you that you are bound by Article 103. Please contact the agenda theme, Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41652	Thank you very much, but I have to remind you. First, I promise you, of course, I can't warn you, but I promise you I will bring this into line with the subject. Believe that crime, insubordination of the law, is also a security problem. If we're talking about the credibility of the military, the MP group has some doubts, has not done it in an incorrect political way by going out on some medium and talking about it, no, waiting for the only qualified person to respond, perhaps, to completely incorrect information and to reassure us about this, but certainly, it is an obligation to speak about the credibility of the ministry sent by some members of the peace mission. And the story of peace missions was the beginning of my theme story.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41653	People's MPs, they don't send anyone to the Ministry for peace missions. It is decided by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I pray you, and I refer you to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which prohibit any of us from demeaning the institution in which we sit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41654	Now, you've tried to disenfranchise what I've said so far, and that was your obvious imagination, because you didn't let me finally connect to all of this that I'm talking about, points 7 and 8 of the agenda, this extraordinary session. I hope you understand that and that the public in Serbia sees it. Indeed, there was no need for you to warn me, for I am not inclined to make such a leap out of the matter, but, well, you have the right to do so. Where I left off, just to keep going. What is very important is that the participants of this meeting, and as we see what was the theme of the meeting, on March 27, 2009, imagine, did not make any official notes, nor did the minutes. It's all made up a lot, much later. What is a concern of our insider, whose identity I will not reveal, is my right, because a man still has to exercise his labour rights in your ministry, is that Master from Canada will launch international arbitration and that the state of Serbia will again be in a position to pay certain pence before international arbitration. What's the point here? What's the point of my discussion, given that I have to bring the end now? We don't know, we may be members of the retrograde force, who are trying to think about establishing and maintaining peace, in situations of permanent crisis. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, after the end of the Cold War, NATO has implemented and peace missions have been more numerous than before, so much about establishing and imposing peace, is one simple fact, how do you think the credibility of the Ministry of Defence and members of our army is completely transparent and clear, when in the country we have this kind of problem? Or, don't you think that the priority would be, before we think or before you thought about proposing certain members of certain missions somewhere in the world, to first solve huge problems here in the country, and first, their material and technical position. And finally, what the public in Serbia is extremely interested in is – why planes, military planes in Serbia, fall every once in a while. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41655	The word has the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41656	Dear Members of the Parliament of Ragush, if your last name were Sjojic, I would have more respect for your performance. You make up an affair, and then you talk about how I attacked you. (The People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, from the post: Intervention, which is the way. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41657	Please don't throw away, let's listen to each other. Please, we all listen to each other and don't throw it away. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41658	I must say with full understanding that you have come to some secrets and that in a mystical way, you have read here, that you have not paid attention that your colleagues have said that I was the bodyguard Miri Markovic, which is a notorious lie and a lie. As the father of two sons, I must defend my integrity. I know it's unusual for you to have someone answer you, because the position you've always been in in this House, pulling microphones, spraying people with water, etc., is not the position you can be in anymore. Also, as he said, "stuckle," from the military, but good. The fact that you've come up with some documents through an insider, which I don't ask you what it's called, that you wouldn't happen to tell me, and that you have information that indicates that there's an abuse or violation of the law or corruption, a crime or something like that, and you're keeping it to yourself, that's what brings you into contact, a police colleague will tell you, that you're protecting criminals who did it, believe it or not, that's how it is. You didn't tell me, you said on TV seven days ago how you got some information that would be presented. I only ask you, why do they not present themselves to those who are in charge of it? There are police, military police, VBA, civilian police, inspectorate, BIA. Do you know how many people there are who control the work of the Department of Defense? I don't think any ministry in the state of Serbia is controlled to the extent and extent to which the defence ministry is controlled. Thanks to this control, among other things, I can say that he has returned to the reputation of members of the Serbian Army, that we do not have a problem with professionalisation, employment of military personnel, enrolment at the Military Academy, military high school, to seek, as it is said, a place in every way to join our army and no longer be whispered, as MP Savic said in his presentation, a few minutes ago. Knowing that you're going to talk a little bit about planes, since we have some insiders, but I can't tell you who they are, I've prepared something to read to you, to inform you, that you know, something I didn't know either. It happens that the minister doesn't know things either. The Eagle-type plane, which you said went down a little bit in a lake, fell one into a lake, can't be said like that, but I understand you, in the period from 1974, when it took off first, or 1975, had 25 accidents, of which: 11 accidents from 1981 to 1990, and that, six because of the failure of technique, five because of the human factor, that is, from 1981 to 1990. From 1991 to 2000, 12 accidents: six due to the failure of technique and five due to human factor, and one case has not been established why it came into existence. From 2000 to 2010, two accidents, therefore, six times less than a decade ago and five and a half times less than two decades ago, of which: one due to the failure of the technique and one for which the determination is under way. What's interesting, too, is the situation (just one second, I know you're interested in everything, so I wouldn't want to miss something to tell you, it's not military secrets, it's about things that are famous) from 1983 to 1994 there were six accidents due to a standing trap, 16 years after that we didn't have an accident because of this malfunction, because a certain revision was made, and now, after 16 years, another accident has happened because of the failure of a standing trap. So if you're talking about every little plane crash, the way you say it, first of all, you're disdaining people who fly on those planes, two pilots died in those crashes. If you're talking about malfunctions, I'll tell you that out of the four planes that have crashed in recent years, only one has been identified, not yet, but how much information I have will finally be, that he has had a technical malfunction. It happens, Mrs. Ragush, everywhere in the world, and that insider should tell you that it's a natural and normal thing, as a car accident happens, so it happens in a plane crash. You had a chance to see that a recent helicopter crashed, that three Russian military soldiers were killed in exercises, that last year the planes that killed the best Russian Air Force pilot, the commander of the acro group, had crashed over the Mediterranean, where two bursts of the French army crashed. This thing, unlike the times I've read about, comes public today, it's coming out today. I don't suppose you had any idea how many planes crashed in those years that were behind us, and you didn't, because in the time you were in power, it was hiding like a secret. You ask, are you a militant political group? Well, you see, we're trying to explain here today to the citizens of Serbia, which is why it's good for the Serbian Army, the state institution to participate in peacekeeping missions. And your representative Vojislav Seselj went to the American Embassy to offer volunteers for participation in the war in Iraq. How much energy did you spend today on the story of Iraq, and you didn't tell us and what would you be doing there in the first Gulf War, and who then called you, for whose health and for whose benefit, state, party, personal, interesting? You've told us a lot here today, but you haven't given a single answer, absolutely nothing, and you're using one very bad feature, I mean, from the past, in which you declare yourself attacked, and then you say - the minister attacked us. Something like that never happened. My colleague, Mr. Jojic, I don't know how much pressure he has, man, had a moment ago to convince us that I don't know what kind of evil I've done to you here, by answering every question you've asked. The numbers you just dialed, the people you mentioned, we don't know any of them. If you were thinking about Ilia Pilipovic – I know him, Ilia Filipović – I don't know. You don't even have adequate names. So, insider, he's probably sending you that Morse code somewhere, making a mistake, so there's a mistake. Please, since we're here talking about the interests of the state, about state issues, to deliver this to the competent state authorities. There's no one else who can handle it, not even me. If anyone has done anything to harm the defense system, participated in any affair, it would be my pleasure to be punished by the worst possible sanctions I have the right to give, and I am convinced, if it is a crime, of course, that the court will judge. But you're not invited, in a way to tell me, you've brought it up now, and I need to explain. What can I explain? Let me explain to you that's not true? You know that a lot better than I do. Your insider brought it to you to tell you, you see, take a little bit from here, put it here, and make a story that's read in the tabloid every seven days. What you're talking about right now, it's just that your information is kind of out of date. They're out of date, and if you don't change the dynamics, with all that nice voice and all that sweetness that you have, which I support... If you were the first to speak today, I'm sure we wouldn't be in the conflict today, because everyone else would be polite in the way this home demands. I didn't insult anyone today. I was just saying, maybe it's too strong to say "Sojic," but it's the paradigm of a policy where you're attacked, so you're defending yourself from someone who doesn't participate in that attack at all, you understand? It's nothing personal. It is simply a paradigm for what is happening in the Serbian political public. Unfortunately, it's a common thing and it's especially common when it comes to you. I say, a moment ago, I'm sorry that Mr. Jojic is not here, I was very sorry to see how upset he was that someone offended him, and I didn't mention him in any word, nor did I say anything bad to him. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-15-0.u41659	People's MPs have been reported in the electronic system. I'm guessing you're looking for a straight line. None of the applicants have the right to a replica. So, neither Aleksandar Martinović nor Marina Ragus, nor Nikola Savic. I am concluding a joint single search on the motions for decisions and we are finishing our work for today, and we are continuing our work tomorrow, 16 June at 11.00 p.m. On the basis of Article 85(5), I'm giving an explanation of why at 11.00 p.m. At the same time as our session tomorrow, in the small hall of the House of the National Assembly meetings, the summit of the Ministers of Southeast Europe's Ministers' Conference on Telecommunications and Digital Technology Development. Minister Jasna Matic, who is obliged to be at the beginning of the session, or present during the discussion in particular, has an earlier obligation at this conference. That's why, taking care of the order, I say we start at 11.00 p.m., considering it necessary and mandatory for a representative of the government to be present in the session room. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are working conditions for the Rules of Procedure in Hall 87 of Parliament. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miroslav Petkovic, Rade Obradovic, Esad Djudjevic, Milisav Petronijevic and Aleksandar Cotrić. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for the presence of Irina Reljin, Assistant Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, Slobodan Marković, special adviser to the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, Stefan Lazarevic, adviser to the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for the Law on ELECTRON COMMUNICATIONS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Vladan Batić, joint MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Poskurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čalić, then, the National MPs Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrij Miljavić, together the National MPs Milić, Milić and the people of the people of Slavic and the people of Slavić. You have received a report from the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected as incomplete amendments submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group to Serbia. 21 and 27, which is why the amendments referred to above, in accordance with Article 148(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly cannot be debated and are not voted upon. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I remind the MPs that the power of MPs' groups to represent them is also applicable to the review of the law in particular, and the mandated representative for the SPS Parliamentary Group is MP Dejan Radenkovic, for the DSS MP, Milan Lapcevic, and for the SRS parliamentary group is Vladan Jeremic. For all other changes, please provide information during the search in particular. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Donka Banovic has been reported. You can use the time of the parliamentary group, since the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go.
