ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47281	MPs, we are continuing the work of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. To determine the number of MPs in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that there are 90 MPs in the hall, or that there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Borislav Pelevic and Miroslav Markicevic. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that, in addition to the motionary's representative, Dr Diana Dragutinović, Finance Minister, Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister and Master of Justice Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, as well as Master of Finance Verice Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, called for the meeting to be attended by Ruzica Stojiljkovic, Assistant Minister of Finance Miodrag Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Aleksandar Vujičić, Director of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. We're continuing our work. We move to item 1-7 of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE REFERENCE OF THE BUDGET LAW FOR 2010. I would like to remind you that at 10.30 p.m. the session of the Administrative Committee begins and ask the members of the Committee to take part in the work. We continue according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law from points 1 to 7. National MP Arsen Djuric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47282	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I must say that today's debate on the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget is the highlight of the impertinence of the ruling majority, because instead of discussing such an important law, that the time for discussion is duplicated, you have combined the debate with six other laws, which is unrecorded in previous parliamentary practice. Since there's little time, I'm going to talk about a few important segments in budget rebalancing. Despite stories and announcements of the necessity of reducing public spending, rationalising and reducing the budget deficit, you are doing exactly the opposite, i.e. increasing public spending and increasing the budget deficit for the entire 13 billion dinars. I would remind you that this assembly passed a year ago the Law on the maximum number of employees in the state administration and, as a result, should be reduced in the budget for salaries in the administration, but you are increasing these allocations by 1.500,000 dinars, thus showing that the whole law, i.e. the rationalisation of the state administration, is the most common farce. The growth of the budget deficit was due to a decline in economic activity, an increase in unemployment, and this rebalancing was meant to significantly increase subsidies for the economy and for agriculture, in order to bring this economic activity back and forth and reduce public spending. As a parliamentary group, we have submitted amendments in this regard. What's very interesting about this budget rebalancing is the transfer of funds to local self-government. In recent months, representatives of the ruling majority have been visiting Serbia with stories of the need for balanced regional development, a reduction in the level of development, the necessity of decentralisation, the return of property to local self-government. However, in practice it happens quite the opposite. With the 2009 budget, you denied local self-government by 15 billion dinars. The amount has also been retained in the 2010 budget, so local self-government in Serbia has been denied by over 30 billion dinars for two years, and you plan to increase by one billion with this rebalancing. I would remind you, Mrs Dragutinovic, that by reducing funds for local self-government, you have brought municipalities and cities in Serbia to the edge of existence, or they are no longer able to serve the most basic functions entrusted to them. What is devastating is that 15 days ago here in the Serbian Parliament, you said you would not respect the Law on the financing of local self-government, which provides that local self-government in Serbia will receive 1.7% of GDP for funding. When the finance minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia do not respect the law, I do wonder what kind of state we live in. You also boast of increasing agricultural subsidies by 650 million dinars. I would remind you that the current agricultural budget is less than the 2008 budget and I would remind you that the DSS has submitted amendments that we have requested to increase the agricultural budget, i.e. an increase in subsidies to agricultural producers. You rejected those amendments, you did not accept it, so that 15 days ago, the Minister of Agriculture would say that the agricultural budget is small and should be increased, as if the budget had been made by someone else, not by that minister in agreement with you as finance minister. Mrs Dragutinovic, you said last night that by increasing subsidies in agriculture, milk shortages on the market will be regulated. Do you think an increase in milk subsidies from a dinar to three dinars will solve the problem of milk shortages? Of course not. This increase in milk subsidies is good, but it is insufficient and late. I would remind you that thanks to the government's poor agricultural policy only last year, the cattle fund in Serbia has been reduced by 110,000 throats and it cannot be restored so quickly, it takes several years to restore it. If you had accepted the DSS amendments and increased the agrarian budget and subsidies to farmers, today we would have had milk for export, and we would not have imported it, because our farmers would have economic profitability to deal with agriculture and would not have worked to cover costs and loss, as they do now. As I come from the Zlatibor district of western Serbia, I cannot help but mention building the Belgrade-South Adriatic highway. After its formation, the government annulled the concession to build the highway, with a promise to build a highway from the budget, and for the first time in the budget, two billion dinars were planned to build the highway, in order to reduce those funds by 750 million with this budget rebalancing. I would like to ask you, Mrs Dragutinović, since in July there have been solemn works on the section of that road, how many miles has it been done so far? I will answer you: not a single meter of this road has been done and it is clear to all, while this government is ruling Serbia, there is nothing from our highway. At the very end, I would say that the DSS parliamentary group has submitted a number of amendments proposing an increase in economic subsidies, an increase in agricultural subsidies and an increase in transfer funds to local self-governments, while reducing some unnecessary budget costs. I would like to say that this budget is not balanced between social and developmental, as the ruling majority representatives like to say, but rather try to address the consequences of your wrong policy, which leads Serbia to great uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47283	Ambassador Alexander Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representation, the Minister, Madam Minister, it is normal for the Assembly procedure to propose amendments and amendments to the Budget Law to expect a responsible government to come before the citizens of Serbia, to come before us and answer some questions. Today, we see only you in the benches, we do not see other ministers who should be sitting next to you, above all, Prime Minister, perhaps Mr Mladjan Dinkic and other ministers related to this budget report. However, we expect from the government, and from you, to respond to where our money is spent, where our money is spent, whether the taxpayers' funds have been spent for the right reasons, and has Serbia's citizens' standards been increased? You said, Madam Minister, that this budget was done on principle – we save as much as we can and spend as much as we have to. I would not agree with this finding of yours. In fact, I think it's a much better coin for this budget rebalance -- you do as much as you can, and you spend as much as you want. This budget rebalance reminds me of a new manifesto of the Communist Party. In addition to my claim, the deficit has been increased by 13 billion dinars and now stands at around 120 billion, that the state has tried to intervene with a billion euros, in debt to patch up exactly those gaps in budget spending, however, has failed. You also said, Madam Minister, that the government reacted to social cases and that it allocated two billion to social categories, for single assistance to pensioners, then pregnant women, maternity mothers, single mothers. Well, of course the government reacted. It was supposed to react much more because this government is making an extremely bad environment. A million Serbian citizens are on the verge of existence, on the verge of poverty, and that we do not have these folk cuisines we do not know to survive. So, Serbia's mirror is like this -- more and more poor people and more people's cuisines. The hypocrisy of this budget is certainly the government's attitude towards local self-government. You, Madam Minister, have designated only a billion dinars for all local self-governments, my colleagues spoke of it, while a year ago you took those same local self-governments from the transfer funds from 15 billion. So my city of Leskovac lost 140 million from the budget, and now based on these billions to be allocated to local self-government, and priorities have poor municipalities, it's going to have about 10 million. The very city of Belgrade has received 2.6 billion. I don't want to talk about even regional development anymore, I think the numbers are saying everything. In the end, since I have little time left, I think you're late with the budget rebalance, that budget rebalance should have been put into this assembly much earlier, perhaps the moment inflation crossed that 8% limit. Now inflation in Serbia is measured by a double-digit number, over 10%, and that is the greatest burden for Serbian citizens. It's the biggest defeat for all of us. However, there is something good about this budget rebalancing. I hope after this rebalancing of the cow's budget will be much more motivated and will give much more milk to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47285	I thank my colleague, Pejcic, and I give my word to the MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47286	Dear Minister, I'd like to talk about this budget rebalancing law or the amending budget law, but, you know what, I think it's much more important at this point that one political dimension is given to this than to speak in an accounting way, how the government is trying to do it here. First, I have to say that the government, despite the fact that every minister and government official is going to hear praises about the budget, is trying in an extremely political way to change the budget. Let me make an argument. First of all, without any preparatory meetings with the parliamentary groups, we also received this text as a single table a few days ago. We've been reading in the paper what's going to happen, saying whether something's going to be in the budget or not, we've been listening to statements from various ministers who've misread what's in the contents of this paper. Furthermore, a debate in the Serbian Parliament, as my colleague has already said, has been merged, and I do not know about how many agenda points, and this has taken away the opportunity to speak either of the budget or of other laws directly. Simply, each of us is ahead of that choice. To understand what I'm talking about, our parliamentary group has 14 minutes and if I read the titles of these laws I'd spend half the time. So much for the democratic procedure in the very hall of parliament. I have to point to another fact, and last time the Minister of Finance was a representative of the government, when it came to the 300m-euro debt, a tool used by a democratic society was inappropriate, and yesterday it repeated itself again. Then, to remind you, the minister used her address in the Assembly's hall to say that MPs would be paid an increase, followed by another campaign to the Assembly. We were told by the press that you made the statement. So, on all the front pages, there was no debt of 300 million, but it was that MPs would double the salary next year -- the whole 3%. Yesterday, instead of talking about what at least the heads of the parliamentary groups imposed as a topic, we now have the subject of an extraprofit, a law that is being prepared, which will happen sometime next year. If the election comes, we'll deal with all the irregularities and everything just so that the elections somehow come and go for this ruling coalition. Third or fourth, the head of the SVM parliamentary group told you for the second or third time in this assembly that the assessment of the party making the ruling coalition is illegal and unconstitutional. Is there an answer to that or do we not care? You don't care, since you're 127, it means you can do anything? It's not the first time a minority party has warned about it. We don't know if it's true or not, but we expect at least some answer, it's a very serious accusation of "the most important" law in the country. When you get into the contents of this, it's very clear what it is. The state has given up any development, investment, and decided to patch up the holes itself that have made inactivity for the past year. This budget is statistical. In December of last year, some misjudges were made and we are correcting them now. I may have a grudge about it, but it's a necessity. Then we heard the most accurate thing in the world, these things have already been spent. We're just doing some preparation. You can laugh all you want. What do you expect the Assembly to vote not to receive pensions for the next two months? Is this your offer to the ruling majority MPs, since one of the demands is that if a rebalancing is not adopted, there will be no pension in the next two months? Our question is different and you can ignore and not give an answer, that's your right – what happened to the state in relation to those users of the budget you listed as the first few users in the past year? Last December there was a big fight between the LDP parliamentary group and the PUPS. It was then promised that pension fund reform would begin in January of last year. It's the end of November. What happened? Some phantom law came and went from the congregation, and his entry into the procedure doesn't matter because there's nothing in it. Will the pension be 60% salary, 50, 40? These are topics that impose power, which are not important or false topics. Has the pension-involved fund been reformed in the past year? Did this reform start? Has it been established what has been done in that fund over the past 10 years during DOS, as it is said, and in the previous ten during someone else's time. Is there any plan with that fund, why are we giving seven billion dinars again? Just to fix the holes or to make something nice happen in January, February, March, etc. We're patching holes. You're here defending the thesis, not just you, that the state isn't in charge. Any borrowing is a lot, if that's the money being thrown out the window, and if you're not doing anything to fill such holes, it's like throwing it out the window. The relation that the prime minister does not come here to talk to the Assembly about the budget, so it is not a relationship to us, is the relationship of Mirko Cvetkovic to that money that persistently, persistently throws out the window every time. It's a picture that the citizens of this country need to remember, one of the seven uncles who wants to make the impression of a man with positive intentions, who's actually been throwing all of us out of the window for two years now and who doesn't care what's going on. He comes by here only by accident and to be angry with MPs who have bad questions. So we're asking you again, this is kind of a necessity, you said the best grade you've ever given, that's that you've worked at the maximum of your capabilities, your possibilities are dictated by a government that's organized by a feudal principle, and we're not asking you for an explanation, what has the Ministry of Finance done to blackmail these thugs in various places so they don't behave like that anymore? What are these concrete moves to reform how I did PIO and other things? That PIO just became a symbol. The PIO fund, I apologize. What about the Health Fund? It's the next topic, and there's as many topics as you want in our society. This is just a few of the biggest users of it. As a third thing, to end it, to leave it to this other one, I must say what our fundamental grudge is political. So, I am deeply convinced, and believe me, so does the vast majority of Serbian citizens, that the biggest problem of this country is politicians who take no responsibility but always blame someone else for something that happens. That is also the case with this government for some lagging behind in European integration, the EU is guilty of putting too many conditions ahead of us. Because the frozen salaries were due to the IMF, because it was their condition. Today it's Miskovic and Beko's fault, finally. I don't know if anyone else, they're up. I ask you, does the government have any guilt or responsibility for the situation in which this society is located? So this is what I'm asking you because of your statement that the budget is the result of an external environment, of an external situation, you said there's an economic crisis everywhere, and it's slowed down growth, etc., not to quote or not to ask for this. That's right. I ask you, did the government work best under the given circumstances? Is this the maximum that could have been done? Did Serbia really flourish until 2008, so when the global economic crisis came, we broke our legs, and we don't know where we're going to go, or maybe the situation is a little different if there's no money now, unfortunately there's no one left to take it from, so it turned to making law on extraprofits under the court of justice to take it, and to throw Mirko Cvetkovic into some bottomless hole, without any requirement for those who spend that money? The only one who treats this country worse with tycoon money is the Serbian government and no improvement for this country will be that the government will take any of them, these symbols of injustice, Miskovic, Beku, anyone, and what will happen to that money? He'll stay. From year to year, we adopt the budget without any difference in people's lives between these two budgets. The budget isn't an accounting book, but behind these numbers are some lives. We don't expect to hear about these lives from the finance minister. We expect from the prime ministers and other ministers, and not on the day when the session is held for the government, so that MPs of the ruling majority take 180 minutes as long as they can. Either this dialogue will open or not. I'm telling you that citizens don't believe it's always someone else's fault and that the culprit is always out of this country. During Milosevic, NATO, the Vatican, America. Today they are enemies of the IMF, the EU, The Hague tribunal. Where are we? Are we so perfect, but in these circumstances in the world we haven't been able to manage for over a hundred years?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47287	Your MP group has three minutes left. National MP Zoran Mašić, then Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47288	Dear Presidency, honourable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, above all, I would like to speak of one already expressed motherland today, and I can speak freely of the insolent relationship of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards one of the country's significant economic resources, which is agricultural production. I cannot accept that for the past two and a half months, the factors of this government are talking about the serious problem of milk shortages, the serious situation in the area of agricultural production, especially in the livestock production sector, and that this country must take concrete steps to stop the collapse of the entire agricultural production, and especially in the livestock production sector, because there is no agricultural production either. In developed agrarian countries, in developed countries of this world with developed farming incomes of livestock production in total agricultural income ranged from 60% to 70%, rata 30 to 40%. In this country, it's the other way around, and it has to change urgently. The kind of policy this government has run is inexplicable. Madam Ministers, and you also MPs and ultimately Serbian citizens, I would like to remind you and to inform you that a session of the Committee on Agriculture was held in this House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 5 November, where representatives of the most important milk associations in this country were present. These were representatives of the Association of Milk Producers of Serbia, which brings together all the major milk producers and representatives of the Central Association of Milk Producers from Vojvodina, where there are over three or four thousand joint dairy producers, as well as those with several cows and those with hundreds and more cows on the farm. In agreement with all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to underline – all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, some of them sitting here and I have not heard that they have called and criticised the government and the finance minister's procedure not to meet in the budget rebalancing what we have concluded at that session of the Committee, but also the agreement of these associations that a billion and 270 million for agricultural production will be minimum allocated to the budget. For the dairy sector, where a billion dinars would be spent to pay subsidies to milk producers for the third and fourth quarter, for the milk delivered in the third and fourth quarter and for all producers not only as it has been in the regulation, up to 100 cows, but also for all large farms, because they are also in trouble. We all unanimously concluded that this premium should be a minimum of five dinars. In the surrounding countries and ultimately in the EU countries, the premium ranges from 5 to 10 Eurocenti. The minister himself has repeatedly declared that it is necessary to allocate those funds, but now we have a situation that we have that is simply set aside twice as much and that it is said about some number, some three dinars of premium and that, for God's sake, it is said that it is twice as much as it has been paid so far. I would like to inform you, and I would like to ask that, Madam Minister, at least listen to the premiums, which is that three billion and 42 million were allocated in 2006 for milk premiums in this country. In 2007, a billion and 800 million dinars were allocated exclusively for milk predominant purposes, in 2009, 700 million were allocated, in order to allocate 500 million in 2010, with this increase of around 650 million. We in this country in order to revitalise this sector of production is not enough just to move milk, but to provide certain means of restoring reproductive traps, meaning, for the purchase of rock heifers or to say musculoskeletal throats, because the basis of the milk shortage is that in this country in the last year and a half, by the estimates of many, is slaughtered up to nearly 100,000 musculoskeletal throats. Therefore, with the kind of policy you promote, there is no way to revitalise the sector. Because the people who attended that meeting clearly said that the producer's price is according to the prices of the input, which are primarily the prices of cereals, basically corn and other parallel industrial products and the price of kabasti nutrients, so the basic price or the producer is 37-38 dinars of milk. The purchasers recently increased some 32 dinars a week or two ago for the extravagant milk, which has about 15% to 20%, and the opinion was that at least this production of extra-quality milk, which could tomorrow be an export product, with a premium of 5 dinars is at least covered by the producer's price of milk producers. With this rebalancing premium, simply milk producers will not even cover the basic cost of costing a litre of milk. Is this a policy that should lead to an increase in the competitiveness of our agriculture? Is this a policy that needs to provide cheaper food on our market? Yesterday, both you and the governor and the Prime Minister said that the main cause of inflation in this country is the high price of food. Such a policy will not lead to food prices stabilised on our market and inflation reduction can only lead to bigger problems. I would like to say that the request and decision of the Committee, the request of the agricultural producers, not only of the dairy producers, but of all others, but of the decision of the Committee on Agriculture of this National Assembly, to make the next agrarian budget minimum of 5% to 7% of the total budget, I repeat at least 5% to 7%. If you don't do it and you don't allocate that much resources, our agricultural production will get worse next year. From this point on, I'm telling you that we're going to invite all agricultural producers to rise and get to the shift of this government as soon as possible, because it systematically collapses the agricultural production that provides GDP in this country, the agriculture itself between 11% and 12%, with the food industry, is about 20%. It provides a currency surplus of nearly a billion dollars or 700-800 million dollars, which is one of the small sectors that provides this country with a positive foreign trade surplus. It provides a profit in all of this, and this country applies from year to year. I don't think he's a citizen. First of all, agricultural producers, MPs, we should no longer approve of this policy and this attitude towards agricultural production.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47289	National MP Kenan Hajdarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47290	The President-in-Office, respected minister, respected MPs, the debate on budget rebalancing is an opportunity for us in the Serbian Parliament to discuss the economic policy that was led this year, as well as to send citizens a message on the economic policy that awaits us in the coming period. However, the messages sent by this budget rebalance are devastating for everyone in this country, whether they are pensioners, students, young people, employees, investors. The message is that we live on credit and that the state is in debt to cover a minus that is increasing from year to year due to the lack of economic and political reform that this country needs. No fundamental issue and reform that would help us to work better and work harder over the next period has been defined by this budget rebalance, nor have we heard in the opening statement from Minister Dragutinovic. Also, the LDP will vote against this budget rebalance and because the RS government has been persistently silent for two years at the four proposals for economic measures that the LDP has directed to the public for the excessive government of the RS to overcome the difficult economic situation. But most of these measures were not accepted by the Government, and those she accepted, she accepted with a delay, and we never heard the responsibility of those who did not want to accept the measures we proposed in time. These measures, in recent years, also apply to the reduction of the first job tax for young people up to 35 years, to the elimination of VAT on basic foods, to the relief in the purchase of the first apartment, etc. It is clear to us, Madam Minister, that you will tell us that these measures lead to a decrease in revenue in the budget, however, we are coming to the second aspect of the last LDP package, which is political measures. There cannot be economic reforms without political reforms. That is why the LDP has insisted on reducing the number of ministries. Why do we need ministries that only cause us problems – such as the Ministry of Faith, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and so on? Why do we need those agencies that are only making it harder for us to work normally, both businesses and businesses? Also, the LDP insists on these political reforms so that we will not be in a position to pay for various – Miladin Kovacevic, for various "Satellite" affairs, not to pay for missed policies, such as the foreign minister's policy on Kosovo. These are all savings that could have been insisted on. These are all savings that can allow for a minor intervention from our economy, because this is what the LDP has been talking about for two and a half years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47291	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us with a proposal for a rebalancing that represents another twist in the creation of difficult courts in the lives of citizens, and this is particularly important in the economy and in the conditions of commitment. Namely, what this government, and especially the finance minister, must explain, is criticism by members of the ruling coalition. Yesterday we heard here from one of the presidents of the parliamentary group, it's Mr Balint Pastor, who openly said that this budget rebalance is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution and against the law. In addition, the LSV has been pointing to the anti-constitutional nature of all budget regulations for years and points to inadequate state policy towards the AP Vojvodina. The finance minister isn't answering. The ruling majority is not answering. Is it against the constitution and is it against the law? From the point of view of the SRS, the budgetary regulations, and in particular this budget rebalance and earlier budget proposals, and adopted budgets, were both anti-constitutional and illegal, and from the aspect of the provisions of the Constitution relating to the AP Vojvodina, as well as from the aspect of a number of legislative regulations. We'll start with the budget system. Instead of today discussing the budget provisions for 2011, we are just rebalanced something we have spent. This is a direct violation of the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. Furthermore, the Law on the financing of local self-government clearly defines the percentage of state separation in local self-government. The finance ministry, as a proposer of the budget legislation, is now the third year, for 2011 knowingly violates the provisions of the Law on the financing of local self-government. Mrs Dragutinovic, you must go public and explain to the citizens of Serbia why you are violating the provisions of the Law on the financing of local self-government. In 2009, you denied 20 billion dinars to local self-government, 2010 - 15 billion, next year we don't know, but probably 10, 12, 15 billion. Because of the public, we have to say, what is the volume of the funds? That's close to 400m euros. With 400m euros local self-government can make 200 schools, 400 kindergartens, 100-150 sports halls, I don't know how many squares, how many playgrounds, how many streets to pave the way for, etc. These are funds denied by local self-government, which are denied to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and these funds, most regrettable, have gone public. More unfortunately, they went to all kinds of dispersals, government spending, ministries and numerous state institutions. It's a violation of the defense law, here it is, for the third or fourth years. Instead of singleing out 2.4% of GDP, it's always less. The provisions of the Public Procurement Act are violated. The provisions of the Law on salaries of civil servants, tenants, etc. shall be infringed. Before the end of last year, we passed the Act on the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration and in the local administration. Exactly the number of civil servants to be employed in the state administration, 28,000, has been defined. What was done under that law? Nothing. Instead of firing 2,600 civil servants, officials and tenants, we fired only about 680, 690. What about the other number? The whole world is going into savings because of the global economic crisis, because of certain problems in business, because of certain problems in financing public spending. I mentioned here, and for years, the SRS has indicated that we need to cut public spending on the case of the UK. In its programme of stabilising the overall social and financial system from 2011 to 2014 she planned the following: a reduction of 500,000 civil servants, 192 state institutions will be shut down, with the following explanation – no money. What makes the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is in debt year by year, the budget deficit from year to year is increasing. In 2006, it was 10 billion, for 2011 it will be 140 billion. When we rebalance for 2011, it's likely to be 160-170 billion. How many times is that? Who can stand it and who can settle it, balance that income and expenditure ratio? Mrs Dragutinović, you must come out with a clear strategy. You don't have a strategy, you don't do a strategy, you don't do anything to make funding more flexible and make it possible for the European Commission to do what is required by all budget users, as much as state finances can finance. You have reduced budget revenues to 94-95% of tax revenues, only 5-6% are non-tax revenues. Can the citizens, can the economy endure this state torture, public spending and can the citizens single out so many taxes and can the economy single out so many taxes in terms of liquidity, insolvency, huge foreign competition, huge problems in the area of finance for the economy, etc? You have no answer to all of this, you do not have a strategy, and clearly the European Commission has been asking you for several years back and asking you to make a rational policy of sustainability of the financial system. For more than two years, you've been in the position of the finance minister, not one law that goes towards creating strategic savings reduction plans, stabilising the financial system, but you've passed the Budget System Act, which you don't respect first. It was brought in last year, you don't respect it. We were supposed to talk here today about the 2011 Budget Law. The question is when we will get it and how we will discuss it and how a public debate is being held, which is necessary in the adoption of such an important, most important state act in one calendar year, from the aspect of the overall society of all users, direct and indirect, because everyone gets a little bit out of the budget. What percentage is involved in the separation of the economy, and what are the financial amounts the economy suffers to appease such a large state administration? I will read a survey by the Economic Institute, which says that in 2003 the state administration was singled out, so it's only about the republican administration, 46 billion dinars, next year - 48, next - 54, next - 57, 2007 - 66 billion, etc., for 2007, according to this analysis, it's a total of 84.5 billion dinars. It's about huge resources. The economy is in trouble, and it has to stand out for the state administration. Where's the savings? With what amount of savings you have now come out and said – we will, in a certain way, help the economy, execute the following savings, and in this area so much, in this area so much, etc. When a program is created, if we stick to it, then will we help the economy? The economy is now collapsed, you must understand that. The total debt of the economy is 19.5 billion euros. Banks owe 10.5 billion euros, owes the state about a billion euros. That's all in the short term, we've forgotten in the long run. The economy owes the pension fund about 2.5 billion, 60% of the businesses are blocked. In such conditions, the economy lives, but the task of the state, the government's task, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions is to create relaxing conditions to help the economy. Without that, with this banking system, with these high interest rates under which the economy takes credit, this economy can't survive? What about the citizens? There's a lot of interventions, too. Citizens owe more than five billion euros. They have huge tax-based procedures, contributions, taxi fees paid to state authorities. The local self-government is hopeless because you denied them certain incomes belonging to them on the basis of transfer funds, based on the government's obligation to finance local self-government. Our exit is to raise local taxis, local fees, and all this leads back to the inability to pay by citizens. Mrs Dragutinovic, I'm afraid of one thing and the SRS has been pointing to it for years. Don't put yourself in the position of the state that when conditions are created, you can't settle obligations. Right now, a citizen is facing that question whether to pay or not. If they can be more in debt, they can settle some of the government's obligations from those in charge. The vast majority of citizens today are doing just that, in debt. Some who have the opportunity to be in charge of banks, under very unfavourable interest conditions, while others are in charge of relatives, friends, etc. What we've been through through the feeds, foreign leads from abroad have been coming down from year to year. What can a citizen expect? He can expect the state authorities to come to him tomorrow and tell him we can't take it anymore, we need to block it, etc. That's why, from the point of view of the SRS, this budget is not developmental, this budget is not social, this budget shows how much the states are crumbling. That is why we cannot accept the provisions of this budget and we will not vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47293	Mrs. Branka Ljiljak is on the board, so she will be able to get involved in the debate later. I give my word to Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47294	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when you look at this budget and when you hear the explanation of the finance minister, the first thing that comes to mind is that the money has already been spent. It is one practice that has existed for several years, that before the Assembly, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law is given, all for the reason that someone does not go to prison because money has been spent without purpose. What confuses us in the very reason of the minister, who provides us with a fine future with a story about a greater increase in production, a larger gross product, etc. And that we have even greater revenue in the budget than expected for some three billion dinars, some conclusion is that in some future time we are coming out of this crisis. But, Madam Minister, I don't share your opinion, because statistics is statistics, the method is a method, and the budget is a budget and something that you've been talking about, with what's in the proposal, something doesn't add up. You yourself said that we must make a certain increase in funding for the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, in part because of one-time assistance to pensioners and the other part because the number of employees in the country is reduced. If we have a growth in production, if we have a growth in gross products, then we're not going to reduce the number of employees. That's impossible. Something doesn't add up. If we look at the differences you've made, they're even more concerned. The only increase in budget revenues you've had and from real sources is corporate income tax, but Mrs. Ministers have a value added tax in a country that's less than 22 billion dinars. You have value added tax from imports, which is particularly worrying, greater than the one projected by 18 billion dinars. I don't know what you're counting more on in the growth of our production, do you consider the growth of production when it enters Serbia? If we had growth in production and GDP would be reversed, there would be more taxes charged in the country and fewer taxes from imports. There lies the whole problem of this country. We don't live on our money, we don't live on what we earn, we sell out, we sell out, we borrow. Madam Minister, I would like any government while it is in power, that their budget does not serve to survive another year in power, but to be something that will make one policy in a country that will continue and when that government ceases, that is, when its mandate ceases and it is something good for the citizens. We have a situation here that we have a year-to-year budget to keep someone in power. You're announcing a budget deficit of 140 billion dinars in 2011, I just don't know if it's from a loan or from a Telecom sale, and you're selling it so you can finance an election campaign in 2011 or 2012. There's no real basis for that sort of thing. When it comes to budget spending, of course we don't mention the flag, of course only 30,000 cars were produced, of course, the only one investing in it is the state of Serbia and bringing any future government into the situation because of the huge money invested in the flag, or in the Fiat, to continue to finance what has already been invested not to fail. It's not a state that's powerful enough to be able to finance production for once in the Fiat. His income is higher than the total income of our budget. Set up a little bit of that relationship to see these same Euros that come from Italy, not just cars that come together here and sell us again for those same Euros. About the payouts, I would not particularly like to talk about, you said there was an increase due to the increase in salaries in health care, education, and item – salaries and additions of employees, it almost doesn't change. What's on the rise are other expenditures, two billion dinars, and the other expenditures are certain bonuses given to employees in government authorities. Some laws apply, and some don't. As hypocritical as all this is happening and what you are doing in the last few months in Serbia, it is enough to look at the division of the Agrarian Payments Authority, and by budget rebalancing the same amount envisaged, as in the Budget Law 15 billion 474 million and 700 thousand dinars. There's one problem, you cut agricultural subsidies by 400 million dinars. You've increased the constant cost of that same administration by 25 million dinars. Services under contract, I'd like to see what kind of services they have under contract, because they just need to channel the grant funds, increased by 120 million dinars. Immaterial property increased by 245 million dinars. Then someone tells me how you think about farmers, and this is the money stolen from agricultural producers to maintain the state administration and through contracts take money out of the budget and someone makes fictional profits. Whether it's done by law or not, that's how it is. You stole the farmers. Finally, this deficit of 13 billion dinars is planned to be compensated from the loan. Mrs. Minister, you have to understand one thing: as long as in this amount, the economy is not able to develop because it has, firstly, its crafts assets, and the loans it raises because competitions with the state are expensive and the only profits are made by banks. If finally the economy in Serbia had the right value of a loan with real interest, not green, then we can talk about development, we can talk about new factories, we can talk about new jobs, we can talk about pension growth, we can talk about raising profits in the authorities of the state administration, and we can talk about donations to the pension-inhabited fund, until then, we'll cramp, we'll sell, until that happens. I hope that one policy like this will finally end in the first next election to show some others that they also know that they run the country in a much better way than you have ever been, and I am fully convinced that the SNS is up to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47295	National MP Nemanja Sarovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47296	Ladies and gentlemen, I really listened very carefully to Mrs. Secretary yesterday when she spoke and I must admit that after a few hours I listened very carefully, that after a few hours I was trying to understand what was being told and how it is possible that these are indicators of what we read about the budget and that you're talking about something completely different. When we listen to you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when we listen to Mr Djelic, you, Mirko Cvetkovic and others, you insist on telling us that for the fifth time in the last year, Serbia has been coming out of the crisis, how recovery has begun, how everything is booming. But then the question arises, why are you increasing the budget deficit today? What would be logical is that if it all started, if the production of flowers, if agriculture flourishes, if people in Serbia live well, then that budget deficit decreases, because I guess something started, so the social product is increased, so of course there are more resources. You're saying that there was an economic recovery in the first part of 2010, that there was an increase in gross social product, industrial production, foreign trade, so the situation is ideal for this. But you're already on the next page saying that tourism traffic fell by 10%, that construction activity fell by 19.2%, that the external trade deficit was 3.9 billion euros, that it was recorded over a period of nine months 2010 to reduce the total number of employees by 3.1%. So all this data suggests, of course, that we should add that, and let's not forget, that the dinar has weakened 10.7% despite the intervention of the National Bank with 2.47 billion euros. It's clear from this data that what you're telling us isn't really like that, but what I'd like to pay particular attention to at this point, which is, for example, you're saying here in the income structure, says the second largest incomes are excises that are projected at 133.6 billion, which is a slight increase. A slight increase is 2.1 billion. That's twice what you've defined for all municipalities in Serbia, that's 3.5 times the 600 million you've defined for agriculture and for increasing milk premiums. When it comes to social giving, you always talk about how you've increased pensioners' giving, how you've increased other social benefits. However, when you came to power and Mirko Cvetkovic, as prime minister, made certain promises, he promised that the average pension would be raised to a minimum of 70% of the average salary. At that point there was a euro about 80, and then you increased your salary by 10%, but the dinar fell by 30% of that moment. As some kind of great reach of your authority, you single out the fact that you gave 5,000 dinars to pensioners, whose pensions were less than 30,000 dinars, but you didn't promise pensions at the beginning of your term once a year, but you promised them that you would raise their pensions and that they would receive what they had earned during their lifetime. One more thing I can't understand is that you haven't given those 5,000 dinars to those pensioners who have their residence at this point outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is purely discrimination, and I don't know why you discriminate against those who have worked in Serbia for 40 years, retired, and then decided that the residence has somewhere else, in Republika Srpska, Montenegro or who knows where. Especially interesting are these billions that you have allocated to settle the debt of budget beneficiaries, and the biggest debt absolutely refers to the city of Belgrade. The Belgrade City Assembly has made a decision that allows write-off based on debt based on calculated and unpaid interest on the original public revenues, which have a handful, and one of these is debt for city building land, heating debts and the like. A week or ten days ago, when this was discussed in the media, some 60 million dinars were owed by the republican authorities and organisations. According to this budget, it's incomparably more than 370,277,000 dinars. This is just a basic debt without interest. In all, these republican authorities and organizations, based on unpaid urban building land, are the main debt, without interest that are unmatchedly larger, but we do not know how much they owe 2,642.256.000, and when these 370 million are added, so you give three billion 12 million 533 thousand dinars to settle the debts of the republican authorities and organisations, but you are certainly obliged to answer a few things. First, why you haven't paid city building land in years? The second thing, what a period it is and whether it's five years, 15 or 50. Fifty, you should know that. The third thing, is it moral for those who did not pay in Belgrade, such as Infostan, to charge interest from ten, 15 or 20 years ago, to threaten them a month ago and to announce that the judicial perpetrators went into the list of things, but that still those who owe have time to pay everything with interest, and that the state does not have the same obligation. Some users, such as the Department of Joint Affairs, owe 703 million to the Authority, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute owes 454,488,000 dinars on behalf of the unpaid fee for the use of city building land. Did they ever pay that compensation and how it's possible in one orderly state? You're saying you've set aside and you're predicting 1,900,000 dinars in order to connect the staff by concluding a debt-to-burdening contract for certain economic operators that have unsettled contributions to PIO employees from January 1st 2004 to 31st of December 2009. For what business entities do you approve of the burden of the state connecting the internships? For Miskovic, for Bek, for Nicovic? So my question is whether the state will seek ownership stakes in private enterprises for which it pays contributions to the extent to which it is settled. If they won't, why won't they? You're talking about some kind of robbery privatisation and those who have gained enormous benefits have, above all, damaged workers and then the state. Thanks to the state's permission to do so, you have not paid pension and health insurance, and now for unknown reasons for private-owned business entities, connect the internship and you will not make up for it in any way, and it is particularly controversial that these same gentlemen who robbed Serbia are being financed by certain political parties, which means that the state practically finances tycoons, and tycoons are being financed by political parties. One of the following items is that you reduce the regular financing of political parties from the budget, because you are now applying a different methodology. It won't hit those who fund tycoons anyway, it'll hit those parties that operate in accordance with the law. You have to ask, and that's really one of the interesting questions, where you say -- spending cuts, the first reduction of the State Audit Institute -- 64 million dinars? A state audit institution which is unable to comply with the obligation given to it by law. The first city of Belgrade, which has the largest budget, whose budget is larger than Vojvodina, which is ruled by the largest thief, has not been controlled by the State Audit Authority. That's why you're going to control the municipality of Black Treva, which has 20 or 30 or 100 million dinars of budget, and the city of Belgrade, which has tens of billions and has been overly in debt for years, is going to be no time, because the state audit institution doesn't have enough people and there's not enough resources. You found that you were saving on what should actually prevent crime and corruption in the state. Neither that billion nor 70 million per current course, i.e. 10m euros promised to anyone who betrayed Ratko Mladic, as a reward of something like 30 of Judah's silver coins. Is it because you are aware that Mladic is not in Serbia and that you will not catch him? Is it possible that you made some kind of deal with the Serbian Progressive Party that says they want to deliver Ratko Mladic? Tomislav Nikolic keeps repeating it, so he says - he would be proud to comply with the law, so he may do so without those tenm euros, since that money has already been won in advance. So we expect all these answers. Besides, we're interested in the next one. You've defined a billion and 380 million as "Fiat." How many different ways has the Republic of Serbia, through the construction of infrastructure, through free land, through direct injections of financial from the budget, given something that is obviously a missed investment? You told us in 2008 - in 2010, there will be 200,000 vehicles. So in 2010, you said, in 2012 we're going to produce 200,000 vehicles. In 2012, you will likely say that in 2014 there will be 200,000 vehicles. In the meantime, you made a whole foreign product only in Serbia, sold it domestically, gave a 1,000-euro subsidy, if I'm not mistaken, per vehicle, and thus only damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget and benefited from the Fiat. Now you're making a very small number of cars again. Of that new model that you've so loudly announced, who knows how many times, you still haven't been able to do anything. So we want to know what the figure is and how much you are willing to pay, and it is obvious that they are much more important to you than any other municipality in Serbia. I remind you, you've only given the municipalities one billion. When divided into a large number of municipalities, these are resources that are miserable. You're finally saying, you've secured 400,000 dinars through the stock reserves, so you're going to help those who can't survive the warm season. Does the government of the Republic of Serbia plan in any way to control local self-governments, which for unknown reasons determine enormous heating prices, for example in Belgrade? In Belgrade, the recent heating price has increased by 30%, while the price of hot water has increased by 50%. Is the Government of the Republic of Serbia also planning to put such behaviour into effect? I remind you that the prices of heating in other cities in Serbia and twice as cheap, and what is economic logic, is that with the number of remote heating users, the price is reduced rather than the other way around. So, an increase in gas, which was about 12 dinars, given that 65% of energy sources reportedly affect the price of gas, would mean that somewhere around 8 dinars would be an economically justified increase in gas prices. It's up by 30. Where are those 20 and some dinars going? More importantly, if it is economically justified to increase 30% of the price of heating, how is it possible that 50% of the price of hot water is increased? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47297	National MP Otto Kishmarton has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47298	Dear People's MPs, with this budget rebalance, the government has breached a previously defined high budget deficit. They're ordering from the government -- it's the hardest thing for us, we're out of the crisis. While the loan is no crisis for this government, but when the time comes to repay debts, it will not be the problem of this government again, but of our children who will unfortunately be in a major debt crisis. With the rebalancing, the government allocates more money for an ever-increasing number of socially endangered people's cuisines, pensioners, job creations, etc. It points out with pride, as if the government itself is not guilty of the great social threat of citizens and an increasing number of citizens who are forced to receive social assistance. He says – The government does everything it does, works for the socially endangered, for new jobs, and citizens are getting worse and worse, more and more people are out of work, and many have no chance of even getting a job. Citizens should also know that with this rebalancing that money, money is already spent, so the question is whether citizens should rejoice in this rebalancing or cry. I read the statement of the finance minister, he says – we save as much as we can, and we spend as much as we have to. What the communists would say is, we're doing as much as we can, and we're taking what we need. That's not good thinking, because we can spend as much as we have. We have to have a country that's economically sustainable. The state needs to live off its current incomes. If we spend more than we earn, we must be in debt. If we spend as much as we must today, our children will not spend a minimum of needs, because the debts of this government will have to be paid back. And from where? The host spends as much as he has, and if the debtor is in debt, he makes sure that the debt can also be paid back, not to leave the children or to sell out the property so that the debt can be paid back. Where will the government repay the debts if the loan is invested in consumption? I'd like to talk about agriculture, because the rebalancing of agriculture has left much less than the necessary money, and two and a half times less than what the Minister of Agriculture asked for. For example, the government has allocated 650 million for agriculture, and for the Fiat, a new billion and 383 million for this rebalancing. The government thus again shows concern for agriculture and for today’s farmers. This government sells the factory to a foreigner and then invests in the wages of workers and in production, so that the foreign factory has a positive business with us, and in our agricultural production and peasants the minimum is invested. However, agriculture is very important. Agriculture is the only economic branch with a surplus in foreign trade. The place of agriculture in the national economy, thanks to this government, is not in the place that agriculture deserves. The mission of the state, or the government, and all of this is Tadic, is to enable greater budget allocations for agriculture, thus allowing for larger quantities of food, so there would be no shortage of milk. Food prices are growing in our environment. There's a constant need for food. Food is a strategic product, and next year there will probably be even more expensive food. The problem isn't that the food is expensive, it's that we don't have the money. The cost of producing agricultural products is the cost of costing, it is certainly high. For example, for the production of milk, the price of a liter of milk is 38 dinars, and the purchase price is almost 32 dinars for milk. The rebalancing of the government doubles the premium, which has been 1.5 dinar so far, is now doubled, so now it's even three dinars. It has now made it possible for the dairy producer to continue to have a loss on each litre of milk produced and milk processors to sell for 60 to 90 dinars. This allowed the state's milk processors to have 30% to 40% of the margin. Who's to blame? Of course, the government that made it possible for the milk processors to be monopolized. The question is - why is this rebalancing increasing social giving, why is public spending increasing, why is chaos in the country, why is there no concern for peasants and agriculture, why are the separations higher for folk cuisines? All of this, unfortunately, is needed today in Serbia, and these separations are today, unfortunately, necessary. Why? Because the government is incompetent, it has led the state and citizens of Serbia to a begging stick. Serbia has become a socialist. The papers write about some government reconstruction these days, we don't care about reconstruction, we don't care who's going to be where, we need this government to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47299	National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47300	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in previous days it was not possible to include television, take to read the newspaper, without being bombarded with stories about the excessive care of officials in Serbia about low-income employees, about pensioners who have low pensions, about those who are beneficiaries of social assistance, as well as those who, unfortunately, have been hit by some elemental accident. All this great concern has been expressed in terms of this budget rebalance, which today lies before us, which has been presented to the public in support of the citizens mentioned. After these hearty statements, here are the citizens of Serbia, who no doubt know what this is about, have the opportunity to hear the truth in this assembly debate and thus only further confirm what they themselves are aware of. The Republic of Serbia will end 2010 with a budget deficit of 120.1 billion dinars, which means another 13.1 billion more than the initially planned 107 billion. Otherwise, 107 billion deficits were not enough for this government this year, so it has to make a cut of another 13 billion. I'm not going back much now to make a comparison with the deficits of earlier years. I will compare only with last year's 2009, in which the deficit of 49.8 billion was first planned, to be increased to 70.4 later and to end the final year with 104.8 billion. Pronunciations were sought in the economic crisis and in all possible ways tried to present to the citizens a false picture. When the 2010 budget was adopted, we said from the opposition that the record 107 billion is too much, that it is nowhere to lead that the money of Serbian citizens must be domestically available and that the future of our children must not be created so that their only thought is a great responsibility and how to get out of this problem. But that 107 billion wasn't enough, and here we are again at a new amount of deficit and again a record. According to the latest announcements by the finance minister, according to some media, the situation will not be any better in the coming year. The republican budget in the first version should have a deficit of 125 billion, and there will be no surprise if there is a change, i.e. to be an even higher amount of deficit and this says it all. It speaks of the ugly habit of the government of the Republic of Serbia that it increasingly owes citizens more and more year after year, spending much more than it can earn. Authorities were trying to deny that they were building consumer budgets year after year, trying at the start of their mandate to represent them as developmental, however, the actual state of the budget has always denied them. They now say the budget with the expressed social component, and this year will be completed with the participation of current expenditures of 93.11%. But before expenditure, it's good to say something about budget revenues first. Tax revenues show a deviation from originally planned. The income from the income tax of citizens will be lower by two and a half billion, and the company's profit tax will be higher by about seven billion dinars. The question is now being raised: whether these deviations are the result of amendments to the laws mentioned in March this year or whether they are increasingly less employed and their earnings are low, and on the other hand, the profits made by individual businesses in Serbia are not insignificant. We also have a drop in VAT revenue by 4.2 billion, but it's a very interesting structure of this income. The country's VAT revenues are lower by 21.7 billion, while the VAT from imports is higher by 17.9 this year, which means that much has been imported, although the drop in dinars that play their part in it should also be taken into account, and, as we heard from Madam Minister, a slight increase in exports. Also, it is interesting that there will be higher excise revenues by two billion, and the biggest increase in revenue is from excise duties on tobacco processing. Other tax revenues will be higher by a billion dinars, as Serbian citizens pay higher or additional taxes on mobile phones and vehicle registration. As for non-tax revenues, a 4.4 billion reduction is evident. Under these revenues, the initially planned amount of fines has been drastically reduced by 5.2 billion. This is the question – is it a reduction in the number of offences, which would be good if it were true or if the authorities were not doing their job properly, or could there be problems in the collection of penalties? As far as the expenditure goes, I've already mentioned the share of the current expenditure. Over the last two years, the need to reduce public spending has been constantly discussed, but this cannot happen. For staff expenditures and for the transfer of the Republic Pension-Inhabitation Fund, 404 billion and 129 million are leaving the budget this year, almost half of total expenditure and expenditure. A large farce has been made with a reduction in the number of employees in the state and local administration. It was talked about rationalisation as a way to reduce public spending, to keep the number of administration employees in line with the prescribed. The epilogue of all is that one man was out of a job, and the other one got a job in the state administration again. In the process, the most affected were those who were employed in the local administration, in places with a dead economy, who had no hope for their future and the future of their children. On the other hand, new authorities, parallel constitutional state bodies, with a large number of employees, a large number of sectors, are continuously established at the republican level, which includes a large number of executives. It is about numerous centres, commissions and even more numerous agencies, and agencies have boards of directors, which further increases their business costs. Costs for employees of this rebalance are increasing by a billion and a half. Every story about reducing public spending falls into the water, and not expenditure on employees is the only expenditure on state and para-state bodies. There are constant costs of materials, machinery and equipment, not to list everything, but there must be referenced inescapable services under contract, which are an unsurpassed way of abuse. We talked a lot about it last year when the State Auditor's report came in and I'm not going to talk about it this time. We'll leave room to talk about it when the National Assembly gets a new report from the auditors. As for the transfer of the Republic Fund of the PIO, these are the obligations of the state to their citizens who have done their work, have gained the right to pensions and these obligations must be fulfilled. Because of the terrible disproportionateity between those who receive pensions and those who are employed, the funding for pensions made out of the payments of the current employees cannot possibly be sufficient and the solution to the budget is. Everything would be different and much more painless if more employment were provided and then the budget would be a little bit more relaxed, but here, a few years ago, the huge mistakes made in the privatisation process were paid, in which instead of reviving production, there was a closing of the doors of many factories, which many workers left on the street, so now we have a whole army of unemployed people working. What's important when the expenses are analysed is that this year's budget for expenditure on interest payments will be paid 4.6 billion less. The question here is whether this amount is avoided from paying now to be transferred next year or whether there may have been a reduction in the amount of the interest obligation? This second option is unlikely because the government is constantly in debt. However, most loans have a certain grace period, so sometimes this kind of misunderstanding can be created. I will return to what authorities have tried to justify an increase in the budget deficit from 107 to 120.1 billion, to do so with the aim of supporting low-income pensioners, low-income employees, social aid users, and ultimately citizens affected by earthquakes and other disasters. Pensioners whose pension is small have been frozen for two years, they have been divided by five thousand once, because their position is truly uninvited. A billion dinars have been allocated to Article 5, half of which amounts to all units of local self-government, and the other half to those units of local self-government that have low budgets. The reminders, two years ago, transfers to local self-government were drastically reduced. Also, social security expenditure has been increased. The fact is that the need for this type of protection is growing from day to day because of the general economic situation. I have to say, the only positive thing presented in this bill is that in this year, there has been an increase in the number of beneficiaries of the income tax during maternity leave and users of the parental allowance for over a thousand users. When we have a discussion in detail, as long as time allows, we will try to highlight more details, and now I will bring this discussion to an end. I'll also say that this rebalancing is presented as a concern for the authorities about those who don't have enough means to live on just the introduction to a new election campaign. Those citizens who pay the highest price for overall events in Serbia cannot believe these stories, cannot be deceived into borrowing government and creating a higher budget deficit to improve their current situation and make their future better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47301	Twelve minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The word is by MP Milan Vukkovic, followed by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on you to support the proposed budget rebalancing because the changes it intends to make will go into the hands of the most vulnerable. When we decide whether to support this rebalancing or not, we should not be in charge of whether we support the government's work or not, whether we're satisfied with the state's state of affairs, but rather looking at what this rebalancing is like, and seeing what changes are made in relation to what was planned in December last year, when we adopted the budget for this year, what changes this rebalancing brings us. The most expenditure goes to social expenditure. There has been an increase in expenditure on the regular transfer to the PIO fund of seven billion dinars. One-time assistance has been included for administration employees and for pensioners of 5,000 dinars. Three billion were allocated for social protection. The funds for the heating season have been provided by equating debt towards the city of Belgrade and heat, as well as building land for municipalities in Serbia. The transfer of municipalities by one billion dinars has been increased, half for all municipalities and half for 40 of the most underdeveloped municipalities. Those of you who don't support budget rebalance ask what would you throw out of this, what's the surplus here? Would you like to cut pensions? Would you leave Belgrade and municipalities in Serbia without heating in the middle of the season? Would you deny the necessary assistance for poor municipalities, such as the Shop, Knic, Žitište, would you leave them without the funds they need to function? If that's someone's policy in the Assembly, then we should hear it from you. It's legitimate if you have such a policy, but it's not a policy that I agree with, and it's certainly not DS policy. DS policy rests on social responsibility and solidarity. It's the pillar on which the DS stands. I heard yesterday in the debate, and today, the budget and this rebalancing are highlighted in social terms. I'm asking you what it's supposed to be like. Our country and our society are not rich, but what we have should be distributed in such a way that those who are the most endangered, who have the least do not live below the limit of dignity. Is the funds we have provided in the budget enough to eliminate poverty in Serbia? Not even close, but we have tried and we are what we can afford without jeopardizing the future of our country and our economy. If this is an opportunity, and I see that most MPs are using this to criticise the government's economic policy, let's look at things realistically, to see where we were in 2008, 2009, 2010 and to realize that this year we will have GDP growth between 1.5% and 2%. It's not much, but we're the only ones in the region who have GDP growth. Last year, we had a drop of up to 3% in the situation where most of Europe's countries had a much larger decline. We had growth from 2000 to 2008. The world's economy was in expansion. Part of that money was spilling through investments and privatisations with us. We had bigger salaries and more was spent, so the GDP grew, but imports also grew to the extent that they became headaches for both the government and all economic analysts. Here's some good news. Exports will increase by more than 20% in 2010 compared to 2009, in the first nine months 21.1% while imports grow at a rate less than 9%, so the external trade deficit will be reduced by 4%. When we all complain that the dinar has depressed, which has lost some of its value, which those who have taken loans indexed in euro must return larger wars in dinars, we should bear in mind and that dinar depression is also one of the factors in our increased exports and lower import growth. This is the basis for what both the prime minister and the government have cited as the basis for future development, which is re-industrialisation. We have good indicators this year. Of course, these are not indicators that are enough to raise citizens' standards. Our citizens still don't feel it, but we're on our way. In the first nine months, industrial production growth is over 5%. The model of development that Serbia had from 2000 to 2008 will no longer be able to function, and so is not just with us, so it is across Europe. Those rules that were in force until the global crisis are no longer in force. Look what's going on in Britain these days, in the United States, in all of Europe. I'm glad Serbia is on one path to economic recovery. That's one hint of economic recovery. This government has adequately saved Serbia's worst-case scenario. What's the worst-case scenario? Bankrupt state. What country's been through this? A lot of us. First, Hungary, Iceland, Greece, Ireland. Spain is expected as well. I hope he gets away with it, maybe Portugal. These countries went bankrupt because they spent a lot more than they earned. We are, this government made a decision in 2008 to freeze employees' salaries in the administration and freeze pensions, and it was a brave decision that made no new vote in the basket of ruling parties, but it had a positive impact on our economy. So they saved Serbia's worst scenario, and we could take new loans, we could charge ourselves, we would share salaries for two, three years, we'd all be happy, the government would be the most popular and then declare the country's bankruptcy. That would be irresponsible, and it's not DS policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that this rebalancing provides for additional social benefits. Times are difficult and Europe's most developed countries face great temptations. I know that the situation in Serbia is difficult today and I know how my neighbors live, I know what the average wages are, I know that many are looking for a job can't find it. Serbia, however, is slowly coming out of the crisis. The data that I've listed speaks for it. As much as we want to encourage the growth of the economy, we must not forget those who are the most vulnerable, because in our system of values when we measure the quality of one society, we should not watch them live the richest, because if you ask them, I don't talk to them much, but I hear a lot of comments in the media and in conversations with other people, if you ask them, they complain the most. Serbia's richest complains the most. We should watch them live the poorest, provide them with a decent life, and that is the measure of the quality of a society. That is why the rebalancing is good for Serbia, and I will support it, as well as the parliamentary group "For European Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47303	Eight minutes of MP time was used. The word has a folk MP, Marina Toman, I apologize to MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, the error was read since the time of the parliamentary group was used. After Marine Toman, MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47304	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget rebalancing in which the largest items represent separation for poor, pensioners, subsidies is a sad picture of our reality, and the reality is that the government has brought down the economy and the standard of poor citizens of Serbia by bad economic policy anyway. If we wanted to simplify things, we could say that budget rebalancing is the quenching of the fires that broke down with the government's reckless moves, both in this and in the years that preceded it. The budget rebalancing it is fully agreed with the IMF, is a sentence with which the government explains the rebalancing and sends a message that it has done nothing beyond what the IMF has asked of it, no less, no more. A government lacking political courage to enter concrete social and economic reforms answers that the IMF is an alibi for the disastrous situation Serbia is in today. The fact is that the IMF represents a policy whose application yields devastating results that are visible in countries in the environment, but also the fact that the government has not shown the willingness and courage to oppose such a policy. It is therefore the government that is the main culprit for the situation in which the state is today, the economy and its citizens, primarily Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Respecting exclusively the IMF's tasks, the government forgets the real needs of the present economy and society and the circumstances. The budget rebalance created as a result of a series of catastrophic moves has shown that this government does not have the courage to face facts and to determine which priorities it must be working on unless it wants to spend more on the future than we do if it does not want to continue to balance, but that it represents a single development budget for the parliament and the citizens of Serbia. We disagree with the conclusion that Serbia spends as much as it has to, and that it saves as much as it can. The finding will not be agreed by the majority of Serbian citizens either. I'm just going to give you one example of why the government spends more than it needs and it's not about saving. The state, or Vlad, could have spent less on removing numerous agencies and administrations, parallel state bodies, useless budget parasites to begin with. The burden of such a bulky state administration would not have been borne by a much more developed state. But no, the government is very perfiduously trying to present that only expenditure on health, education and pensioners is the cost for this country, and that is not the case. Funding agencies and administrations represents this additional cost, and such examples are many. We are witnessing that the government has been trying artificially to maintain some non-profit public enterprises for years by pumping money, by lending, by subsidising guarantees, instead of reconstructing them and making a step towards doing profitable business. On the other hand, the same government gives up the most profitable domestic company Telecom, which has 10,000 employees and net income in 2009. Also, can we, for someone who's increased the deficit by a rebalance, confirm a negative increase in the government's cash register, say he saved it? We can't agree on that finding. I don't think there's a question here anymore – does the government lead Prime Minister Cvetkovic know something or can, but above all - does the government want something or not? If things had been set differently, i.e. certain priorities when the 2010 budget and the one before it were planned, then they would certainly not have been in this situation where we are today. Instead, the government has unanimity. It seems to us that each ministry is pulling aside very often with unrealistic demands, putting additional cost to the state, forgetting the message it sent to Serbian citizens at the beginning of its term. Mirko Cvetkovic then offered citizens a reduction in unemployment, job creation, an increase in GDP, and two years as a deadline for the budget surplus to become a budget surplus. Instead, today we have a budget rebalancing that allocates funds for additional social protection, i.e. for chain packages for the poorest in 40 municipalities in Serbia. They're the same citizens the prime minister promised a job to, a better standard. These are citizens who are proof that Mirko Cvetkovic has not fulfilled a single promise since the start of the mandate. These are citizens living on the edge of poverty, and their numbers are getting bigger and that's something to worry about. Due to the government's poor economic policy, the absence of a concrete programme to get out of the crisis, some areas will continue to be on the verge of collapse, such as agriculture. With this budget rebalancing, it is not good for agricultural resources to correct the error made by the 2009 budget, 2010. He's ruling his actions of justice by crisis. That's the easiest way, but shouldn't you think about how to get out of that crisis, how and where Serbia will position itself? I fear that Serbia will be in a situation where it will be impossible to relive the consequences of bad decisions with much greater investment and much greater resources. That there were bad decisions confirmed by individual representatives of the government, so Agriculture Minister Sasa Dragin probably says at a moment of honesty that the problems in agriculture are related to making bad decisions without a previous dent in their consequences. He thought first of all about importing milk powder, and we add that such decisions were enough. We now see that the budget rebalances the additional funding of 650 million dinars for milk subsidies. The government is probably thus trying to sort out as much chaos as it did in the market for supplying this poor place. What about the fact that the government has allowed the monopolization of the dairy-processing industry due to the irresponsible government policy and the lack of interest of certain ministries? For years, consumers and individual producers have suffered, they continue to suffer. For years, only large dairy farmers dictated the purchase prices of milk. The only benefit from the purchase was the dairy, and the price was paid by consumers and primary producers. Now you're trying to make it right. What about the fact that the stock fund was destroyed, that livestock was destroyed? But that's not the end of it. The question arises: Can you correct the damage suffered by agriculture to the decision on unilateral application of the transitional trade agreement? So many problems and very few concrete proposals to solve them. On the other hand, we continue to pretend that there is no other market than the EU market, and unfortunately, our products are uncompetitive on that market. We're still pretending there's no Russian Federation market, so we're not making this Serbia and its citizens better. The SRS will not vote in favour of budget rebalances, not because we are against helping the poor or pensioners or the suffering of the King, but because the budget rebalances the government's inability to face problems in this country, to create enough income so that it no longer has to balance, as you say, but to show that it is working on Serbia having a development budget, to spend how much we earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47305	Ten minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The word is from MP Mirko Cikiriz, followed by MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47306	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Madam Minister, as a member of the SPO and a typical representative of right-wing European Serbia, which holds to what is traditionally in Serbia, but also looks to the future, and our future is safe in the EU and in some other alliances. I will try to assess and rebalance the budget and the Law on Banks and the Law on Banks Banks Banks and Liquidation, but not from the position of the ruling coalition alone, regardless of what we believe to be both a correct and constructive coalition partner, but not from the position of exclusive critics, but from the position of the MP and someone who should represent and represent the citizens who chose him, but also to give their assessment which should be quite objective. All that is stated in the budget rebalancing is, of these vices which are politically economical – that it should be spared, spent less and less, to reduce public expenditure, to help the most vulnerable and the poorest citizens, to continue subsidising the economy, agriculture, to separate some of the milk premium funds, regardless of what we expected to make that part of the funds bigger, to regulate the old debt already regulated for the heating of cities and municipalities, to give certain funds to both MIP workers and administration workers. Aid to the King, compliance of expenditure with the IMF, a slight increase in wages and pensions, etc. We think he's fine. It is also good that the head of the IMF Mission says there are encouraging signs for the recovery of the Serbian economy, which is largely based on exports and expects economic growth to reach 1.5% of this and 3% of the next few years. I think we should all have that kind of sense of reality that we're in a time of great economic crisis. The economic crisis is no excuse for the government. Did the government work well? Yes, it is. Did she respond adequately from the start of the economic crisis? Yes, it is. Did she establish and preserve macroeconomic stability? Yes, it is. Are we being threatened by the bankruptcy of the state? No, I don't. Do economies, which can be largely a role model for Serbia's economies today, face major challenges? Yeah. In Italy, a million and 200,000 workers were out of work. The loss of jobs continues. There is no political show in Italy that does not discuss why Fiat came to Serbia, why did the big manufacturer of Omi stockings come to Serbia and why did the Italian industrialists' association have the highest interest in investing in the Serbian economy? From the point of view of Italian businessmen and the Italian state, they feel that much of the investment has gone to Serbia. From Serbia's point of view, we have the impression that it is a drop in the sea compared to what Serbia needs. What does this tell us? This tells us that the government of the Republic of Serbia has indeed created an ambience with a series of its measures and changed that poor picture of Serbia and now everyone is wondering in the environment – what it is that has turned Serbia from "black devil" to a country that is largely attractive to investors. Many local self-governments have also contributed greatly to attracting foreign investors. I would like to point out only an example of Lapovo municipality which, in order to attract foreign investors, is the same to release local municipal taxes on the company's emphasis, the fees for the use of construction land, as well as compensation for the regulation of environmental protection for a period of 10 years, but, of course, it has largely been reflected in local revenues, which I will talk about in the second part of my presentation. I don't think it's in our past long ago, that we haven't forgotten either Dafina or Jezda, we haven't forgotten the organized robbery of the state with these parafinance organizations and banks, and we don't need to forget the hyperinflation that was harassing our country. Those who criticise the budget rebalancing today, and the proposed laws, at the time, ruled Serbia. It seems to me that this is why they are the last to criticise the economy and the economic measures of this government. However, by accepting participation in this government, the SPO also accepted all the principles on which the government was founded. If we have said - the faster way towards the EU, then it really means full respect for European principles in everything. If we're talking about agriculture, to this end I agree with all of the opposition political parties who have pointed to a drastic reduction in the livestock fund. The data that somewhere around 110,000 throats are now less in Serbia compared to a period of a year or two ago is a sign of burning red lamps, a warning signal, not only for your ministry, Ms. Minister, but also for all other ministries. Which is why we expected it to be for milk premiums because of the problem with the milk shortage. Also, the greater separation should certainly be in the agrarian budget and larger subsidies. I also know anyone who in some way knows the problem of budgeting knows what problems the one who makes the budget – everyone is looking for. But if Serbian agriculture is as it is today, still our largest export branch, then indeed the government's incentive measures need to make an additional effort to help Serbian agriculture, and believe that aid is really necessary. The subsidies that have gone to the Railways and JAT are indeed something that is largely confusing both the public in Serbia and the MPs because of the fact that both the Railways of Serbia and JAT have been lost for years, that they have been getting huge subsidies for years and that indeed the Government of the Republic of Serbia should do something, whether in terms of restructuring and some other measures or enhanced supervision of the operations of these public enterprises. But, in any case, believe me, if we were to invest what we give to the Serbian and JAT Railways, we would really have results that are much better and that would already be seen in the next year compared to, it seems to us, a bottomless bag that today is the Serbian and JAT Railways. If we have discussed European principles, then it is one of the European principles and decentralisation, but above all also financial decentralisation. I know that this government and most of it, if not all political parties in the ruling majority, are pushing for Serbia's decentralisation, financial decentralisation and return of property to municipalities and cities and compliance with the laws on transfer funds, but it seems to us that we may all have failed in this field. We from the SPO to the end of this government's mandate, I really repeat once again, as a correct and constructive coalition partner, will point out that we have to go to the country's fundamental decentralisation, to the country's financial decentralisation. As an MP from the Shumadian district, I will show you, I know you know that, but this is for the public and president of the Lapovo municipality, it doesn't matter that Lapovo Municipality President Dragan Lakovic of the SPO, but that is one of the typical examples of 150 towns and municipalities in Serbia who complain that they have been denied significant transfer funds, noting, of course, that government measures in this respect have significantly affected local self-government and reflected their functioning and that they also have problems in building infrastructure, providing municipal services, financing indirect users of budgets etc. What I want to say about the changes and additions to the laws on banks and bankruptcy and the liquidation of banks and insurance companies is that it really needs to be reminded not only of Dafina and Jazda, but also of all those insurance companies that had robbed citizens just 10-15 years ago, they did not pay off the amounts secured for harmful events, but therefore they had an absolute blessing from the authorities and they were all loved by the authorities. I'm not going to mention any of these insurance companies, but I'm going to mention hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens who are in control of such a relationship with government and such carelessness, and I think it was intentional and I think it was a state robbery, one of the many state robberies of their citizens. I want to say that indeed the banking system and the insurance organisations system, that is, all the laws and sublegal acts that were passed in this sense that they had established one truly complete stability, that the banking system endured all the challenges of the economic crisis, that all the regulatory measures that the state had taken were timely, were adequate. The government's control role really should exist in this transit period until we are a fully market economy. Of course, and then there will be the regulatory and control role of the state, but surely there will be no State interest to this end so that no single entity in the financial sector will fail, so that this does not affect the overall system. That is why I would like to say, on behalf of the SPO, that we are extremely satisfied with the current solutions in this area and these measures that have now been taken by both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the preservation of the banking system and the insurance companies. I would really ask you not to take all these suggestions personally, to understand them most well-intentioned. You, as finance minister, have the full support of us from the SPO. With regard to all governments in the environment, as well as some of the countries that are EU members, such as Greece and Hungary, the government has really put the burden of the global economic crisis much better than the economy of neighbouring countries. But what I wanted to tell you is that the recovery and prevention of economic shocks have been done, but what we need to do now with these measures that I am proposing, as a representative of the SPO, is to save even more, to reduce public expenditure and to help agriculture above all, and to enter the country's core decentralisation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47307	13 minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic, followed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47308	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to budget rebalancing, I would ask Mrs Dragutinovic – where is item 666, which should grant Tomislav Nikolic and the 10m-euro advances ready to arrest and extradite Ratko Mladic to The Hague, whose arrest warrant has so far killed sixteen Serbs and seventeen Mrs Rada Abazovic, who was the wife of one of the suspects? When it comes to the strong proposals of the law that you have united here, I must truly give a surprise that you have given such a layman's explanation for the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. So, I really don't know if you think that MPs don't read anything outside Serbia, because you probably think so, since you stated in your explanation the following -- that you have defined this bill entirely with the suggestions of the Manival Committee, which is responsible for these issues within the EU. So, you're citing their December 2009 report, you're introducing a newspaper into this law, but the most important recommendations of the Manival Committee are not to be taken into account at all. Their report of 8 December 2009, as the biggest problem for the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to money laundering and terrorist financing, states: firstly, the absence of national legislation comprehensively, then national legislation that does not treat non-profit and non-governmental organisations at all, which is very interesting, poor equipment and poor training of competent authorities and institutions on these issues. Because the question arises – how do you think the police and the competent services take care of these crimes and at all prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, for example. They don't have money for new uniforms, if they don't have money for new suits, if they don't have money for shoes and adequate equipment, if they wear jumpsuits that look like they were designed in 1942 for some future auto mechanics, when they don't have the most basic means to control this type of crime at all and the problem facing the Republic of Serbia? So you simply called on the Committee within the EU, within the Council of Europe. You said you passed the law because of all this, and the most important item they resent – the absolute absence of regulation of the functioning of non-profit organisations and NGOs did not take into account. Now you will ask – what does it matter? I can give you two major non-profit NGOs that funded Al-Qaeda in good time, this is TVRA and Beneval International, which are also known in the FBI reports and in EU reports, etc. So, most importantly, in the proposals of the Manival Committee, you didn't consider it. For what? Well, because it looks like this country is being controlled by NGOs. According to research, watch out for research done by your friends in the west in Serbia, NGOs receive 60m euros from the budget. They have somewhere between three and four thousand employees, so that's the data, the funding worked, i.e. gave support to the Embassy of Great Britain and the expert team of the Department of Statistics that was doing this analysis. In 2006, you gave 42m euros, so you increased it very quickly, already in 2007 it was over 60m euros. A good part of the cake in these NGOs is being wasteful to organisations dealing with homosexual issues and similar ones, so you give them more than 60m euros. I will remind you that only for the King's ambulance, according to your data, should amount to 10m euros and that the consequences should be solved as you yourself said 40m euros. Well, here's a solution for the King right now. Also, instead of giving money to gays and the like, you could have increased the amount to maintain pregnancy, because it is now 65% still, you could have raised new schools and hospitals, you could have raised hundreds of schools and hospitals, sports halls, to help the economy, etc. No, you've defined yourself to invest so much money in the NGO, although it is under suspicion based on the analysis of the Manival Committee, primarily on corruption, related to money laundering. But you'll see later it's not just Islamic terrorism. Somewhere around 3.3 billion dinars were spent on salaries in this NGO sector, and you funded it well. Now let's see for ourselves. The Youth and Sports Ministry is ready for NGOs to single out as many as one billion and 152 million dinars. Furthermore, in this sector, there are people who directly or indirectly control the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, such as the famous Mrs Sonja Licht, who controls the NGO's organisation of the Belgrade Political Excellence Fund. Of course, she's a follower of Mr. Soros, who deals with machinations around the world. By 2009 alone, the NGO had included more than 10 million dinars from the Ministry of Sports and Youth, which concluded four contracts. Mrs Sonja Licht and her NGO can do what others cannot do, and a good part of the money they receive from the Republic of Serbia's budget is spent on astronomical staff salaries. So, once again, I remind you that the Manival Committee has stated that it is precisely in non-profit organisations and NGOs that hides the key to fighting money laundering and terrorist financing. However, through these NGOs controlled by Ms Sonja Licht, youth of certain parties, the Democratic Party, G17, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, Bosniak Lists, etc. are also engaged. So, everybody's benefiting, so it's no wonder you don't mention it in this law, then. A bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Other data suggests that more than five billion dinars have been allocated to NGOs. It says "Today," not to say now that we are citing some sources such as the most prominent Serbian moonstone "The Greater Serbia". Then, I have already provided you with information that is officially available on the website and in FBI documentation, which is within Interpol, which concerns organisations such as TVRA, the third-world Muslim Aid Agency, through which Islamic terrorist Mustafa Ceric, through which Al-Qaida is financed, and Beneval International, also operated in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there are some that operate in Kosovo and Metohija. Now let's move on to that kind of terrorism, money laundering and funding that you of course can't say anything about. So, on November 20th in the state of Georgia, in the United States, a news crew of Russian television was arrested, because in front of a training centre with an old name – American School or a new one – the Institute of Security and Co-operation for the Western Hemisphere, they recorded demonstrations of citizens seeking the closure of the centre. For what? Because for 62 years, agents and special forces from South America, who return, conduct torture and carry out terrorist acts against their own population, have been trained at the centre. Citizens of the United States, those who have the courage to say something, they call that school a school for murderers. So, the Russians were arrested without any explanation, it's the Russian channel, Russia Today, which is being broadcast in English, and held in custody for more than 32 hours, to be released on bail. That data can't be collected. Otherwise, that institute is located across the street from Fort Benning, an American military base. When it comes to the functioning of NGOs and non-profit organisations, which was brought to our attention by the Manival Committee in its report of 8 December 2009, concerning Serbia, the very interesting functioning of USAID. The world's leading analysts say the US Central Intelligence Agency is operating through the USID. Alem Veitem, who is the founder of the NED (National Endowment for Democray). He said it in "Washington Post" back in 1991. Let's see some more information, also historian William Blum, who wrote the book "Killing Hope, the US Army and the intervention of the CIA after World War II," is referring to the models of Cije via USAID and cites an example of Serbia. Gives an example of how you came to power. It is believed that USAID has spent more than 620 programmes in Venezuela alone 20 million dollars since 2000. It is believed that for two decades, USAID, for what some call promotion of democracy, and for which the American experts quoted said that the hidden operation of the CIA had spent nine billion dollars. Also included in this strategy are NDI and IRI, the International Republican Institute, which is currently funding regionalisation in Serbia. All parties, all NGOs engaged in regionalisation and thus continue to receive money from the International Republican Institute. He's not the only one financing these activities, there's the German FUEV organization, and as Mr. Bloom said, that's exactly what the American CIA looks like through these organizations. It is simply amazing that you have not read these reports to the end, because the European Parliament has cited several times, for example, Cija has had 1245 secret flights that included kidnapping people across the EU. Among other things, the 2006 European Parliament report quoted the following as saying: EU investigators are not allowed to access NATO pact buildings in Kosovo and Metohija, primarily Camp Bondsteel, where Americans have kept kidnapped citizens from European countries. The European Parliament's report states that the only place on the globe where they are not granted access is Camp Bondsteel in Kosovo and Metohija. So, ladies and gentlemen, the question is whether you have responded on this issue, because you are calling for EU documentation, and here is the European Parliament's 2006 report on the close association of non-profit organisations, on torture, on the kidnapping of citizens. So these are all questions that you have to pay attention to, and you haven't paid attention. I would like to remind you once again that in your proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, you have left out the most important part contained in the Manival Committee's report of 8 December 2009, although you have previously cited this report as the reason for the adoption of this law. You have completely ignored the non-profit and non-governmental sectors that are important linkages, according to the report itself, which concerns the financing of terrorism and money laundering. Please read the report next time, and if you are already calling for something, then call all the recommendations, so say something we can do now, and we can't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47309	The time available to the parliamentary group has been used. The word is a folk letter from Zlata Đerić, and the letter of the people is Branka Ljiljak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the NS MP group, after all the arguments we would not repeat, will not really support this budget rebalance. But to tell you the truth, Madam Minister, as a MP and citizen, I have been a fan of yours since the beginning of your term for a number of reasons. The first is because you are the woman to whom they gave the most responsible and most sensitive resort in such a difficult time, the second is because we are the presses, as they would say in Serbia, means the same generation, and the third is that you bought me by saying that Harry Potter would welcome me here. Although I think they've given you another role, much more Serbian, your male colleagues from the government, which is that they expect you in times like this to be a hiduk Stanko, which means that you're expected to be the men to arrive and to come and escape and exist in a terrible place, and of all that you manage to exist in that terrible place. I am sorry that none of them have found the appropriate solidarity, because the budget is not only for the Ministry of Finance, the budget concerns all resolution ministers in the government, to at least come to support you, to sit down and share with you the attention of the Serbian public, to bear part of that burden. The budget rebalancing, which is so embarrassingly late, I have to say a little out of the ambush came before the MPs, didn't endure the test of any public debate, as it won't last the budget that is ahead of us, and the most important task of the government that is so happy to operate on the concept of the global economic crisis, and this global economic crisis is an excuse for everything and everything, even when it doesn't stand, was just to bring that budget much earlier. We will seem to be bringing the rebalancing before the budget itself and again the government will perform its famous maneuver, which is that the budget itself is being brought before the New Year, ahead of the deadlines, with a large teat or pressure at the time interval, and then those trades and speculations come who will give in, who will support it. The essence of this budget rebalance is that the money has been spent and that the parliamentary majority should only sharpen it. Of course, there must be some situation in the public of Serbia, and it is the best and easiest thing to do, so I say, if a social picture is taken – then the poorest ones, in the folk kitchens, which I don't think is a compliment for Serbia, that in the 21st century we are proud to increase the number of users of folk cuisines, folk cuisines in general and the needs of people's cuisines – and is explained by all those social givings, earthquakes, pensioners and others who tend to wave whenever they want to cover up other things. Those who played chess know what it's called, it's a distraction maneuver. First, the government did the second maneuver, which was very ugly and transparent in the eyes of the public, and one of the MPs said that you gave that statement, by surprise, I saw that you are not the author of it and it does not seem to you to be the author of such a statement, which is that in April next year MPs will raise salaries. So it was computerized and the figures came out, and it was talked about and written, and it wasn't written and talked about some other costs that go a long way, about the funds already spent, it wasn't so large in public that unfortunately, the deficit increased by nearly 14 billion, or that the final deficit would be around 120 billion. This means that we are so close to the dubiosis of the former projected 49, which has increased to 70 and something and constant promises that we, dear Serbian citizens, are still sinking from 49 billion to 129 billion deficits. It is the law of pure physics. It's no longer an economy, it's a free fall, my lords, in deeper debt. So that's what we can't, as a parliamentary group, support, because here in these very clear figures, behind which the ministries stand, and the management of the ministries, and ignoring the care of the farmers we've talked about so much. By reducing subsidies so much needed for agriculture that it should be an engine, which should pull us forward, it's covered up a lot of things. We see that there are other transparent services under contract and we mentioned them. I once asked before, we never got an answer to that, could one of the vice-presidents of the government give a clear and taxary explanation of what they contain and how much services were paid under contract within his cabinet. For in some cabinets, these services are the same as the employees' salaries. Behind this budget rebalance, which is embarrassingly late, there are many other costs and other budget pumps, and these social benefits are one apparent smoke screen that should please us, i.e. to make it easier for Serbia to go ahead of the public. Of course, behind all this is the need, Madam Minister, for you men's colleagues, male consumers, who don't treat the budget as either a developmental, or anyone else in that qualification of economic categories as they're called, they treat it as a budget that's Alajbe's straw. I ask you as a lady of the profession, as someone I know is very responsible for your home budget, that you must respect your colleagues whose political attitudes, whose political views you are partially defending here in front of us, just defending this budget rebalance, and political trade, and agreements and constant competitions that we see being advertised by billboards in various ways, don't you defend someone's failed musical career here, defending only your professional career, and your profession and your knowledge, which is no doubt great. It was good not to be a role model for Harry Potter and none of those magical characters, but to be Laza Pachu, and for you to once slap them with a fist of a hundred, because they deserve a fist somewhere else, but it's not ladies' place to direct it, but they deserve it, believe me, to tell them that they are their appetites, and their spending and their political points on the cost of citizens. To shut down first taps in the government, to reverse their needs first, and to truly be responsible for the citizens of Serbia with this budget, which is not their profit, which is not their grandfather's, which is the money of the Serbian citizens and it is natural for Serbian citizens to expect the highest benefit of those of that budget, because these are their givings that must be returned to them through life, through everyday life, daily needs and daily giving. That's what we can say at this point about this budget rebalancing, which I expect and we all know will be supported, but what one of the leaders of the parliamentary majority said yesterday, that's the essence that really bares our debate to the end today, and all the arguments that stand, which you know well are true and with whom you agree, regardless of what they come from the opposition's parliamentary groups, because they are indisputable. So, the head of a parliamentary group said -- that they would support that budget, because if they don't support it, the government will fall, and nobody needs it at this point. That's the truth of this budget rebalance. The government will fall if the budget rebalance doesn't pass. That's the truth he couldn't tell more specifically, and that's why he'll support it. Not because it's good for the citizens of Serbia, not because it's really the state of things, but because it's going to fall to the government. So this statement came from your ranks that clearly speaks about the state of the budget and the government's relations to the budget and to the citizens of Serbia. It's just a momentary interest to remain in power. I ask you as minister, that as a lady, that as someone who is a true expert, think carefully about all the arguments that have been made to you, to question them, to make them more firm, more energetic, more bold towards your colleagues in the government, because finance ministers remember the history of this people. I encourage you to be remembered for the best and to really defend the budget responsibly at this point and show the budget to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for next year, and perhaps the solution to what Mr. Canak said yesterday – that the government falls and that new elections come.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47311	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Velimir Ilic, so the MP Nenad Popovic and finally the MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47312	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as well as every year and this year, a pattern that has been applied in Serbia for years is held, and this template is to adopt the budget rebalancing immediately ahead of the budget for the following year. Now that we've finished this whole thing and declared our budget, we've rebalanced the budget and it's in effect, after a few days, we're going to start a debate on the new budget. Every year, it happens that someone has to bring the ruling majority into one position at the end of the year, to accept all those devastations of individual ministers and their great ambitions of political, electoral campaigns, their wasteful, their bad projects, their concern about the people, their chaos that they bring to their projects, their ideas, and that all of them are official in the budget rebalancing, that they accept it all, when it's all over, when the budget year is over. Now I'm a little touched by Mrs. Djeric's discussion, when she addressed the finance minister. That's what I want to do again. You had to be stronger, you had to be more energetic, you had to be a simple minister who shouldn't let things like this stop them half a year ago, a year ago, stop them. Now we would be much better, because what has been done has produced a result that leads Serbia to the bottom, which brings people to great problems, which brings the Serbian citizen to no longer stand for his existence, for his survival, for himself and his family. Everyone expected this budget rebalance to come much earlier, to get into the law that it simply couldn't be spent unearthed, to reduce spending in time, to stop this madness that prevailed in the import of goods, importing everything and everything, and to simply turn to how much we earn so much we can spend. Let's not talk about the IMF now who also wants us to spend what we earn, not to be in debt and by borrowing to increase consumption and to cause problems in the country that is doing it right now. With the behaviour of certain ministers, I don't want to count them now, but the story will identify itself, we're putting ourselves in a situation where food collects in Serbia 34.5% in one year, that the salaries are frozen, that we think that we've solved what we've given the most vulnerable pensioners for 5,000 dinars, that the gas collects 30%, that the energy raises, that the oil collects from 76 dinars, 80 dinars to 110. We're putting ourselves in a situation where we don't know where we're going to go and what we're going to do, we're going to be in charge of commercial loans to do this year's work. The debts are huge. You stopped projects in the government that meant life for Serbia. You stopped the concession, and I can never do it as an MP, as a man who travels every day on the Ibar highway, to forgive you. You shouldn't have done that. You promised you'd take the highway to Chačka, Požega, and there's nothing. You promised four highways, there's none of that. You promised 200,000 jobs. You promised 200,000 cars full this year. That's not gonna happen. The decline in construction is 20% in one year. Agricultural production has dropped over 30%, 80,000 cows in Serbia have been given to slaughter in recent months, as it is inert and peasants have failed. How to restore the stock fund? You've exported corn and wheat to 12 dinars, and now the concentrate pays 35-40 dinars. Who can survive the kind of blows this government makes? There are ministers here, I don't understand them, is their goal being destroyed, destroyed or the state leaving? Gentlemen of the ruling majority, you're not here in the O.R., you're not here a dozen, you're not interested in this, you're going to come to vote and you're going to vote this and you're going to vote the budget and everything. Yesterday you voted all day, and you don't know what you voted for. You don't care, you don't listen to debates, you don't care what it's about. You legalize something that destroys Serbia. I can't imagine MPs from certain regions seeing that there are no more lives there, still voting and still not interested in the situation on the ground from which they come. I can't understand those from southern Serbia, from Šumadia, from Pomorava, from eastern Serbia, from western Serbia, do they see the collapse? I can't understand the people of Belgrade, do they see the ride and the destruction that is imminent, after such moves by the ruling majority who are legalizing all this and who are voting it all? Inflation is approaching 11%, and the government says the crisis is over. You all come in here smiling, happy, cheerful, moody, just yesterday I was watching you when you came in, scrambling, flabby, happy, I'm saying something happened. After this regret of budget rebalancing, if I were you, I'd cry in front of these MPs and say, "people, there's nothing I can do about it." This country is going to ruin, you know it well, you're a woman who understands it all, and I understand you. You are being pressured by others, blackmailed by others, that you must accept all this and bless and sit before us, and they must not sit before us. They spend the most, they're vermin, but they'll never come where you sit. They're in the field, they've glued Serbia's billboards, they're making campaigns, they're doing, they're investing millions and they're making centres, they're making agencies, they're building agencies, they're making Serbia some, ask God what, some parallel organisations around the world, economic diplomacy, they're developing jobs to survive in power and protect themselves and their own party. They change their name, they give up, they call on some who were long gone to be vampires, to push them a little bit, to survive together. You bless it all and all about the cost of the budget, about the cost of this people. Who paid for Serbia thousands of billboards, millions of posters, every day meetings, sessions, prosperity? Just vote for the regions, that's Serbia's future. The joint regions will launch Serbia, and there all the same ones that have been distracting us for years and spending billions from this country. I can't imagine you allowing next year that there's a NIP Ministry in the government. You know for a fact that it's a vermin ministry, that it's a ministry that's done all the evil. You know Mrkonjic has had three hundred million dinars in his budget in the last six months. Do you know how much that is? About a mile down the highway. He's a martyr who goes around Serbia, promises, builds, works. Mrs Dragutinovic, finance ministers, do you know that investments in Vojvodina on the highway will not bring income money because that highway has been under charge for 20 years? It will bring you a new budget burden for next year. Do you know that maintenance of the highway costs three thousand euros a month per mile and that's a new supplement that the budget must suffer, expenditure? Do you know that it's invested where there's no income, and where income shovels can be compressed, there's no investment? I was in Lazarevec last night. Do you know how many trips from Belgrade to Lazarets? An hour and a half, car column to car, 27 thousand cars a day on average. They won't make highways there, but that's why when the president comes and says -- here, they say -- we understand. This government is leading us to a abyss, and all of us together with the government, and it is embarrassing these MPs who adopt the spatial plan of Serbia and who have development strategies and whoever comes to mind to come to Serbia, he spits on our strategy, on our spatial plans and give us new ideas. The other day, we adopted the Law on Dangerous Materials. What are we gonna do? Nothing. Someone comes and says, not that, but this, and we say, we understand. Obedience and only obedience pass and survive. Now he is threatened and given, and he who disobeys has suffered, and he who obeys is able to do whatever He wills. Ma'am, do you know how many people in the government have private businesses? Do you know that they take the biggest traffic from this country, suck like ticks your budget? Do you know they're getting paid off? Do I have to list the tax companies that work for you now? Do you believe that your colleagues sitting with you and talking here about programs and projects are the main drivers of Serbia's development, robbery, bribery, corruption? Do you know how much traffic Shaper makes a year? Do you know how much traffic Gilas makes a year? Do you know how much traffic Krstic makes a year? Do you know that 5,000 apartments were given to the Montero firm? Whose company is this, ma'am? Do you know that this firm is under criminal charges, that she shouldn't get a job and be in a tender and being considered? Unfortunately, it's a company from your party. Do you know that there are millions of euros in the King's account waiting for a friend of yours from the government to build a line for the house, and the people are sleeping under tents, while he's practicing to build houses? It is in Ivanjica and 300 euros per square, the key is mounted. Do you realize for these 30 days it was supposed to be 100 houses mounted, that there's a free war property in the city center, where it could have been built a street, that all the people would have taken care of it by now? You don't let anyone take a crumb, like Miskovic won't put in a store, agrarian, insurance, banking, no one can take a crumb from him, no one will pay anything, no court execution to execute. Now you're waiting to sell Telekom and drop a stone from your heart, to live a little life in a stateless state. Do you know what Telekom's worth with these bought parts? I was Minister of Telecommunications for three years and we were doing a real assessment of Telecom. Do you know what it's worth today -- eight billion euros. It's a gold coke for Serbia, and you're going to give it a wake-up call to patch up the holes, like you're taking these credits, not asking for the price, just to survive until the new year, to cover this up, to legalize, to crush next year. After this kind of rebalancing, there's nothing in the budget that's coming. It's gonna get worse. Electricity gatherings are announced, the collection of life supplies, and as some to God's pay growth that will not be even the fifth of Serbia's purchases. What do we expect next year after this rebalancing? Nothing. It won't be good for Serbia. Do you know that so far, the government has given a total of 18 million to 20 million dinars, and the VAT you charge from the King, from donors, sponsors, people of goodwill who separate their mouths from their children to build the King, you took 38 million dinars from VAT. You've earned, ma'am, 20 million on the accident of those who sleep under tents. As long as it's done that way. Those donors who let us survive, to go to some contest must pay VAT. It's nowhere in the world. People who make donations from the state are stimulated everywhere to do it, to be benefactors, to create something and to do it, but with us it's all wrong and so it goes. Imports went wild. What you said, import revenues, it's a disaster. That's enough for the government to fall. Import everything and everything. What do you think now, when Miskovic sells to the foreigners "Maxie", we won't have ours anymore. How can Serbia survive and how can Serbia survive? Do you know that your party directors have countless firms, they no longer know where they work or where they have them? That 120 bridge reconstruction project, that's my project. Now that I've seen him enter Chachak on the tell Cemerica that he's got a job, I'm ashamed to say, the man who's morphing one city, one Serbia, one Ibari highway, he's been dead for a year with a 10-metre bridge. The man in life saw a broken bridge not and he reconstructed it? The police are running construction firms. They've become big builders, real bridges, work, build. It's a disaster, it's terrible. No one's doing anything to get in the way of that. You don't have the strength, you just watch and nod, and that's no good for Serbia. Here, Nuba Invest, it's the biggest disgrace for Serbia. Do you know that optics charge is higher than toll a year? It amounts to over 205m euros a year. It's the natural resource of this country. The cable television that entered every house, the natural resource of this country, the state has no income from the minority at all. Everything is given for free and everything will be given for free, and don't think we don't know how and how. Ms. Dragutinović, I am very sorry that as a nice, classy lady, whom I highly appreciate and respect, you have no power to stop this. So I suggest, brotherlylyly and honorablely, honestly, resign. Slap your hand on the table. Write a note. Break and say: I will not participate in this, I am a woman who knows the business and will be the Government where you will shine and where your profession and your knowledge will come to terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47313	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. National MP Nenad Popovic has a word, followed by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47314	Madam Minister, the chairman, fellow MPs, here's the sixth time we've met since this government was formed. It'll probably be the seventh time in 20 days. So, budgets are done at high speed, but that speed I think concerns all citizens of Serbia. As far as rebalancing is concerned, what our budget was, that's what our rebalance is. Then you said the budget was developmental, we called it destructive. Here, everything we've been saying has been confirmed. Let me remind you of some statements by your Prime Minister Cvetkovic, December 2, 2009. "The priority in the 2010 budget is to finance the construction of road infrastructure on Corridor 10." Did that happen? It's not. "Agrarian budget for 2010 will," according to the minister, "be recordable", 2 December, source M portal. It didn't happen. They explained that when the inflows are calculated, the revenues of the budget will be higher and the expenditure will remain the same, and the deficit will be lower than the one expressed in the final account that was previously handed over to the Assembly. It also didn't come true. "Budget will be developmental, which means most of the expenditure will be spent on infrastructure projects." These are all your Prime Minister Cvetkovic's quotes. None of this came true. "The state in the 2010 budget will seek to boost the economy and build large infrastructure projects." I have to say, none of this has happened. I'm going to start taxing, as you did yesterday, very specifically, on the elements that they gave us in the rebalancing process. The deficit has increased from 70 billion to 107 billion. Now it's up to 120 billion. Otherwise, since you came to power, since this government is in power, the deficit has been increased eight times since 2008. In 2008, the deficit was 14.8 billion, and now it's 120 billion. I listened very carefully to your exposure to RTS on Monday, on "The Questionnaire," when you said that the deficit was one of the ways countries develop, that it had a development component. So I can relatively agree that, when there is a deficit, it can be a developmental one, definitely, so the domestic budget in a family can be organised in that way, but the bottom line is that this deficit, in this case, is 120 billion, has to be fully directed into development projects, in the economy and infrastructure. Then he can be developmental and we can rise to that deficit. Look at all European countries, most of them in this crisis year have deficits, but all of them are focused solely on development, infrastructure, science and economy. The Serbian economy has stopped. None of these promises in the budget that they were, that they would be stimulating, that they would be developmental, that they would be invested in infrastructure and economy, were unfortunately not achieved. Since it wasn't in the budget, it's not even in the balance right now. To confirm this with the figures, the rebalancing is projected to increase the subsidies to the economy to 1.85 billion dinars. The subsidies to agriculture increased by 650 million, practically to 18.2 billion dinars, but they were exactly two years ago, to exactly the same number that was two years ago, but then, two years ago, the euro rate was less than 80 dinars, it was 78.7, but the diesel was cheaper. That, according to some of my understandings of the economy, cannot be called the developmental orientation of the budget, not even the rebalancing. Of course, milk subsidies increased from 1.5 to 3 dinars, which is positive, but that only happened two months ago. Therefore, there is no milk in stores now, and I honestly believe that nothing less than 6 to 7 dinars of milk subsidies can help producers in no way, as subsidies in the EU mean direct competitors in some countries and up to 10 times as much. So if we're going to help, we really need to read the actual figures, and as for the minimal increase in the economy, I would say that these minimal subsidies are increasing by a micro-subsidisation. So we had them minimally, and now we're microbially increasing them. Prime Minister Cvetkovic said that the allocations for subsidies in 2009 -- were less than 50m euros and that banks had allocated 950m euros. That's a very precise statement. Because it's not exactly a statement when it's said -- we helped with a billion euros in the economy. Banks would give those loans without that 50 million. Today's the main problem is there's no credit. To explain the state of the Serbian economy. For 2010, 36,000 700 claims were received for loans worth 743,8m euros, and approximately two-thirds were granted, even one-half, of 20,016 loans worth 415m euros. We're talking billions, and 415 million are approved. Why? Businesses in Serbia have a liquidity problem. The companies have become over-indebted. Today they have bad balances because of this leap course, practically all last year's companies had bad balances and difficult balances, except for really good businesses, they can hardly get credits. But these good companies are three to four percent, max 5%. Because of the bad balance, 95% can't get, and even those who might get, if they have a little better balance, they have a problem because they've already given mortgages. The only way I've been repeating this for the sixth time is to increase the Development Fund's budget. The Development Fund needs to be focused on living money worth a minimum of one billion euros that would directly help small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as these large enterprises that employ the medium-sized enterprises. We can't do that with 50m euros, counting on commercial banks, that we count on the economy to start. Commercial banks have no interest in lending if they're bad balances. There are NB standards, you certainly know very well, and by these standards 95% of the Serbian economy is condemned, if this continues, to failure. The only institution that can help them, except for these several agencies, is the Development Fund. The development budget, because we are talking about the rebalancing of the development budget, means investing, and 5% of the budget is investment. He can't be developmental. He's social, besides being developmental. Why social? I will quote data from the budget – only for the salaries of civil servants and social contributions are 445 billion dinars or nearly two-thirds of budgets. We can't safely call it developmental. He's deeply social, but I couldn't believe that in the rebalancing this would increase not by a large figure, but that this rebalance would increase these allocations for civil servants' salaries to 451 billion dinars. Okay. This budget has created a lot of social cases this year. We've got 60,000 more unemployed just for these 11 months, minimum, not to talk about rising prices and earning each of these people's personal budgets. I must say, in the budget rebalancing, you've made it social because the most increased allocations for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are by 5.25 billion dinars. Of course it is necessary, but I must point out that this does not apply to the payment of 5,000 pensioners and employees. These are children's donations and the endangered population, and we can't justify that. It should help everyone, but the bottom line is that there's nothing in the budget for the economy. You'll be able to extract a little more from the budget, but there will be a collapse. Only the economy with its work, production, exports, domestic sales, exports to the region can continue to fill the budget. This is how I don't see how we'll be waiting for next year, to wait for December 2011. Rebalance will be adopted. You have a majority and what we're saying is more preparations for these mistakes that happened not to be made again in the budget, because I think all the structures of the population in Serbia will be much worse. Just to remind you, pensions have actually dropped from 250 euros to less than 190 due to course. You'll tell me – never mind, pensioners buy everything in dinars. Yeah, but it's also raised meat by 30%, sugar by 20%, oil by 30%, and info, gas, electricity from not talking. It is positive on the one hand that the planned costs, the interest in the budget amounted to 33 billion, and the rebalance was reduced to 30.5 billion. I must say, I read in the paper a statement from one of your associates that the government saved. It cannot be called by savings when you went to this government in July when the cost of interest in the government's mandate increased from 17 billion since 2008 to 30 billion this year. We can't call savings something that's growing terribly, and I'm going to get credit and everything. As for the reduction in the allocation for capital expenditure and investment, I must say that the allocations for capital investments are twice as small as in previous governments. That's another proof that the budget isn't developmental. In the budget, you predicted last year, for capital write-offs in me, negligible 33 billion dinars, and now you've reduced capital outflows to 27 billion. I can't have the state and the economy running like that. We can give everything to civil servants, pensions and stuff, but what do we do? They're gonna stop the state and then what are we gonna do? The economy is cramping. The economy of debt cramps, problems. The banks today, this way the commercial banks work, can't adequately help. We understand them, too, but there's the essence of the government. There is the essence of all those organisms in the government that need to accelerate the development of domestic economy. The only way is to pump funds directly through the Development Fund, because through commercial banks in this way domestic enterprises, especially those in a difficult situation, will be difficult to recover. As far as capital investments are concerned, the problem is that there is no project documentation. It was said in the beginning, the previous government had not completed the project documentation, but here it was two and a half years ago, and none of those statements had changed, what was expected of the projects, were two and a half years old and could indeed have been all the projects to be completed. If there was something maybe not there, two and a half years are quite enough time to project anything, any time, any railroad, any building, etc. As far as expropriation is concerned, it's also the same process that's being solved over the course of a year, if there are active organs dealing with it. Look, now we're going to the National Investment Plan, of course, I won't be able to say everything now, it's been 15 minutes, but we'll have time tomorrow, Monday and Tuesday. The national investment plan, the investment ministry, has been cut from 20 billion to 12 billion dinars, and is now down by 1.2 billion more. I understand, if they say – there were no projects. But there are so many private projects that private companies could realize. Why not, maybe they could be given through the Development Fund to run for road construction projects. There is a method of building roads that is best in the world, how the EU has built all highways, which is a method of public-private partnership. Why does only the state build roads with us, and in Europe, the roads build and take concessions from a private company? If you declare yourself someone who wants to join the EU, let's use positive elements from the EU economy, especially the construction of highways. Any highway in Serbia today can be built if it goes through a public-private partnership. Of course, my colleagues were talking about transfers, or abolishing transfers to local self - administrations. I would quote you who last time, when we spoke in December, called us pessimists. I told you pessimists are optimistic with experience. They see a lot more and it's nice to be optimistic, it's positive, but spreading sometimes false optimism in businessmen can cause effects to go into debt, and then the results are really difficult. Of course the value of construction works dropped by 19.2% this year, tourist services 10.2%, retail traffic by 2.5%, foreign and direct investments dropped by 50%. The focus of all of this is this 3.1% drop in employment. Less is built, less is bought, less is invested, and this is certainly not something that will help the Serbian economy. You should be very careful with those statements because of the economy and the citizens, that we are out of the crisis. I think we'll be in crisis for a long time, especially if you don't make radical cuts in the next budget. Of course, I would, and we'll have more time to talk, but since my time is over, I'd like to say something about the deficit that I've already talked about, but there's no deficit that's invested in the economy, the agriculture from which exports are financed tomorrow, it can't be called developmental. Very quickly, it shows, very quickly, at the end of the year it shows its devastating fact and what we called the destructive budget, I will repeat, it proved now at the end of the year, and I was just quoting all these elements. What do I care more? It is that your ministry of your colleagues, and also other ministers in the government, does not worry about this deficit. I think this additional 130m euros is more burden for the economy and citizens, to which interest should be added. This is funded by credit, and this is where interest should be added, which is another 10% of what is waiting for us and our children to collect. I have to say, our foreign debt level has re-broken that ten billion-euro magic figure. In the term of office of this government, in your time, Madam Minister, and during this government, the debt has been increased by 1.6 billion euros. It stands at 11.5 billion euros today. Only during your term of office – 1.6 billion euros. The effect of borrowing is more than modest. No results, no business initiated, no highways built and no employment growth. GDP growth is a statistical data that will not help fix this situation. To finish, by emission of vault records and by taking credit for infrastructure debt, our debt has increased from 26.3% to 38.1%, which is very dangerous because it is approaching the upper limit of 45% of GDP and I see the greatest danger there is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47315	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47316	I think whenever a man thinks you can't surprise us anymore, by procedure, by the way this debate is organised, you show your innovation. This time, it is viewed as joining five laws on deposit insurance and banks, the Deposit Insurance Agency, bankruptcy and liquidation. Since that wasn't enough for 20 minutes, for example, one parliamentary group for an authorised representative, you added one proposal for a guarantee law. To avoid being angry with the opposition, who has never had enough time to expose the protest, disagreement or proposals with what the government is doing, as an introduction to the budget story, I will present to you what the international budget organisation from Washington has delivered to you as authorities, remarks in terms of the openness of the budget, where we are like Serbia, thanks to the authority that is leading us, put on the list from 94 countries to 36th place with Ghana. The openness of the budget, which means that citizens are familiar with the way they spend, the control system, the way they prepare, just like one Ghana, but that only Chad, Iraq, Equatorial Guinea and Fiji are behind us. Romania, Croatia, Bulgaria, Macedonia, BiH and Albania are ahead of us. So much for the transparency and clarity of this budget. This is the place you got, gentlemen of the government, I will not only blame the minister, because it certainly is not her fault, thanks to the parliamentary oversight being assessed as mediocre, I stress, because of the insufficient time that the representative body has at its disposal to discuss the budget. So it's not a personal impression of the credit rating of a credible institution that you've had a chance to see. You got an even weaker grade because there's no independent budget control by the DRI. The resources it has are not proportionate to the tasks it has. A full audit of the final budget account has not yet been carried out. This time you're waiting to get DRI remarks, then deliver us a draft final bill. Still in those DRI reports that controls the spending of the budgets you have submitted here as a document on the cover, and not on approval, he was not given sufficient attention in the Assembly. We had procedural reasons, i.e. interference to do so and that the competent state institutions did not take measures to address the particular shortcomings that the DRI points to. We are going to make two more sentences about this, that Serbia also needs a far more serious consideration of the effects, and on this I insist, which for the budget have international agreements that we adopt here, moving them into the sky, the weather and within the shortest possible time, but also to check and discuss, what are the effects of the laws we adopt here, the regulations that we can only read about in the Official Messengers, but also the rules that we also very rarely have no chance of seeing or occasionally just getting to know when they create certain problems. All that burdens you with is an independent international organisation that takes care of the budget and has the same criteria for all countries, so they don't hate Serbia, they don't hate this power, not that they want to put in the hands of the children, they say it creates legal uncertainty, unnecessary costs for the economy and the population, and what I want to specifically talk about is creating a space for the unwarranted privilege of narrow interest groups that affect the content of the regulations. It's an evaluation of an international independent institution about what kind of budget you're making us. It also proves by the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, which you said yesterday, Madam Minister, that there are small objections only in the electronic transfer, where the employer must be identified precisely. When we talk about the details in detail, I will make those 40 plus nine recommendations that this authority did not apply, nor have it necessary to prevent money laundering, and in 2006, bring about frameworks that had to be respected when this law was made, they are not respected. We have changed this law for the second time, on the prevention of money laundering, in August 2009, and you, in November 2010, are giving us an urgent procedure to adopt a law that is very importantly changing, precise, even though you had all these recommendations already in 2006 written in the basic guidelines. Just because you're checking progress in the application of the Money Prevention Act, you're giving it to us today for adoption by emergency procedure. We'll talk about it in detail. But that's why you're a provision by which a debtor means someone who works at a bank, for example, so he knows a party that comes every day, knows what he does, knows what he does, has a cousin abroad, and that he can have minimum checks for that person he's working with every day, it didn't say in this law, even though it was a reference guideline. That's not an accident either. You deliberately created resistance with ordinary citizens to one of these laws, because this procedure for preventing money laundering had to go through just about everyone and it didn't have to. But that's why the law that you brought along with the Justice Department allowed the paper to write for months about affairs in which it was possible for money laundering to occur, because you did not respect the procedures of international organisations, which speak about this activity, and all the opposition can shut up and the word does not speak on your burden. This law, these recommendations, and what you must now change urgently disqualifies you as a force that this country can introduce into the EU and one that can use the password that Europe is in Serbia, by the standards and criteria that we apply. About what this budget says, I'm going to say that it's a lie that he's social and it's a lie that the salaries are cut, because the fraud that's been made in this budget is that the salaries are employed in one position, for example, in the area of tourism down by 15.6 million, and social contributions to employees increased by 13.6 million, we call it, you call it, every smart person calls it a repack. But the deficit that has been increased and not as much as it really is is something where you show that this budget is the result of a coalition contract by a government created on a budget that couldn't stand it, an economy that can't handle this kind of taxes, because millions of people who produce it, even though we have the number of employees of a million and a half, but millions of people who produce it can't make money for everything that is state jurisdiction, but also for one power that's unmeasured. She used her unmoved spending on the permeable increased revenues that were privatisation, donations and that golden rain we talked about in the period until 2006. One who's used to spending a lot of it can't quit easily, and you as finance minister are not able to stop it because you haven't set up spending frameworks for them. This budget contains no savings and this proves an increased deficit, but the deficit is greater than the one you've shown us here. You know what you've reduced him to? By allowing inflation to be greater than it is. So, the only one in this country and the globe in any country, from America, where federal reserves, to Serbia, benefiting from inflation, is the Republic budget. In order not to, like the other night, argue on the theory whether it is true, here, I, as a professor of the university, will quote from the textbook on the impact of taxes on economic flows, where it is said – The important link regarding the interaction between inflation and taxes is the following: the high rate of inflation, or its changes, affects the redistribution of tax burdens. Inflation is able to erod the cost side of the state budget as a lawn mower, meaning it reduces the public spending of the state, only seemingly, while the prevailing and unchanged tax rates automatically draws and earns income from businesses. The only "winner" of inflation is the budget. Applyed to the case of Serbia, it looks like this. One percent of the increase in inflation to 1,200 billion total public revenues means that inflation brings a budget of 12 billion. Two percent of inflation breakthroughs mean 24 billion increased tax revenues. I ask you not to dare deny this information because it is the work of excellent experts of the economic team, professors and those who have recorded information on the basis of which I present this. So the inflation that we are all suffering from, with less revenue in real terms, has just brought a better picture in Serbia's IMF mirror, which is negotiating with the IMF and which is our only reliable source of information that is in this budget. With a few words, as long as it allows me, I will be able to look back on that, but I will say that the problem of this country is that the laws it has passed do not respect, not only in this formal sense, the deadlines for the budget calendar, etc., but that the percentage of tax collection is average, you know that, like me, Madam Minister, however, from different sources, that the percentage of tax collection is only 33%. What happens to us citizens, who have to pay our tax obligations within the time limit because we have a tight interest, and who's all on those lists of software-exclusive taxpayers whose tax obligations are in drawers or are not recorded at all, but are in these two-thirds of the outstanding taxes? We did not sue the IMF that this is happening in this Serbia, they managed to see for themselves. I think that's also one of the reasons why we've been delayed. What is an even bigger problem is that breaking the Constitution means you're bringing us a budget in which, for example, you're saying the increased tax rate is an income item for someone who didn't even figure in the budget. For example, there are a few positions that were not mentioned at all. The Tax Academy has a budget of 33.7 million dinars, and you on the 130th side find that there has been an increase in salary payments of 2.1 million dinars. Are you going to say that the law provides for a budget reserve, and on the other hand you're going to accuse an opposition that makes it difficult to discuss the budget, so it makes it impossible for you to help those who are in danger in the King because you've spent your budget reserve on this kind of thing? How do you explain the fact, Madam Minister, that a strange miracle lost position of 511 construction buildings, right in the position of the Ministry of Finance? So, in your division, a billion dinars, I'm guessing it's a mistake in the explanations where you wrote that 100 million, but not a billion dinars were untraceablely lost from the Ministry of Finance. Did you, as a state, owe someone from that position to pay for building a building? I know it is, but you've erased that position, and the only thing that has to stand in this budget and there's a reserve payment is debts, or interest. For me, it doesn't matter if it was 34, so you've allocated 30 billion for interest as much as it is important, but on the one hand, where the loans went, whether they have an investment effect when we know what we're paying for this interest, and more importantly for the citizens of Serbia, whether only credit agreements are those that respect this state, and with domestic banks, whether they're central to abroad, commercial banks, international financial institutions or any other, without respecting construction contracts, contracts for transfer of funds on other grounds, not to say, public service contracts that you have with companies that are part of the state, and some of them are in mixed ownership. What kind of rule of law are you talking about if we respect only some contracts, or only those that allow this coalition to survive. This budget is from debt to debt, from the paper of value of three months' worth, to the hand of six months, and from the hand of six months a year, and we're just waiting for the next new term to be, and that means for the citizens, the loan that was given to them for a month is extended to three months, and from three months to six months, and from six months to a year. The interest this country already has would have eaten by far more healthy and sustainable growth of any other economy, let alone these non-exportable Serbians, and for two years we say that export priorities and that the goal must be full employment. What did you do with this budget? You're just a position with Mr. Dinkic, Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, where I said he's re-applying some innovation of the guy I'm taking off my salary, and I'm putting into social benefits or some other fee, with this gentleman who runs half the economy, we have the next item. So specialised services rose by 280 million dinars, part of which will go to the Foreign Investment Agency and increase exports. Is it the family, the children, the powerless and what you resented us, Madam Minister, because personally as a woman and a mother, I felt terribly offended in the last debate, where you said, when we ask you to spare that you do not pay the pensions of the powerless, the women you should give birth to. No, it's not true, it's a government commitment first and priority. But you said in this assembly that employers deliberately increase pregnant women's wages, so when they move to the manger states, then they get paid something more unwarranted, so the state suffers, except that you still don't declare that there's a maternity mob. I know you're a mother who's very fond of her children, to the future of our children, and that's why it especially hurt me that when you're told there are unwarranted pensioners illegally retired, you say, I have to respect the rights. That's not true. The job of the state is to verify the rights of all those who exercise them on the burden of taxpayers. So why didn't you take off these positions where the subsidies to private companies went to two billion and 214 million increased by 814 million dinars. The purchase of domestic financial assets from which start-up loans, where police are busy, via the Export Insurance Agency and where police will also have jobs, has 3.1 billion more been given by rebalancing. They're not powerless, they're not children, they're not older, they're not pensioners. You work on employment, because when there are full-time jobs, the Fund will be charged, and it will be filled with contributions and taxes, so it will be more for pensioners and the salaries of educators, cops and their better and more decent suits, for uniforms, for overtime. You must not be moved by what makes the coalition government and by the recognition of the rare participants of that government, this budget is a budget that preserves the current government, not by almost any position to keep the standard or respond to the crisis, or by going to some infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47317	Does anyone else want a word from those allowed by Article 96? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude a joint principled single search... You want a word? You have to sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47318	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you will have a little more patience and let me look back at some discussions. I know it's easy to criticise the budget and debt of the state and you can always draw up an item and you can also find an explanation as to why an item is large or small, as you can very easily during a period of milk shortage to criticise the subsidies that the state sets out for agriculture and also say that 5% to 7% of budget expenditure is necessary, and we don't say why exactly 5% or 7% of budget expenditure is intended for subsidies, which is between 40 and 60 billion dinars, depending on whether it should be 5% or 7%, or something between. What I'm saying is, it's hard to make a budget and in periods of dynamic economic growth, much harder in conditions like these, therefore, crisis or mild recovery, but I would also like to say that I have noticed that many MPs have quoted words like some of my words that I have never spoken. Simply from this place, both for you and for the citizens of Serbia, to say that I have never talked about parliamentary salaries. What I can talk about as finance minister is how much salary expenditure is as a item in the Republic of Serbia's budget and how these salaries will be adjusted, but I never talked about Members' salaries, as I never said that the Ministry of Finance is working on a new law on extraprofit. I'm not a journalist, I'm not an editor, and I can't influence the headlines in the press because I never said that. But what I did say and what was also the subject of criticism is a sentence that we spend as much as we have to, and I actually said this -- it's time to save as much as we can, to spend as much as we have to, to live within the limits of our options, but it's important that we understand that the deficit cannot be reduced overnight. So, those were my words. When I say we spend as much as we have to, I mean we have to pay our pensions, pay our salaries to the military and the police, and to the professors and the doctors, that we have to pay for the disability, child benefits. We just have to. Economic policy is run everywhere, including in the country of Serbia by a combination of two ways, using rules or rules defined by laws and using discretion. There are no countries where there is no discretion in economic policy-making. If we were to assume that there is such a country and there is absolutely no discretion in the conduct of economic policy, then we could assume a state where the budget and the budgetary process are actually not necessary, because everything is defined by the rules. You will admit that there is such a country in the world, but I agree that everything is a matter of measure. Last night, one MP criticised the state's lack of support for the Kolubar district, and in the meantime I found data, simply because this criticism was a reminder to me that the state would not care enough about the new crisis area, it is now the Kingdom. For your information, the state was collecting everything she gave for the Colubary County, I mean by collecting different dinars, set aside for the Colubary County over six billion dinars, bringing down the same money, the expenditures for the Colubarian region were 12 billion dinars. Also, one MP said the state does not invest much and does not allocate much for infrastructure projects, that 300 million dinars stand in the division of Minister Mrkonjic. Again, at the division of Minister Mrkonjic, the expenditure on infrastructure is seven billion dinars. That's a lot of money and there's a lot to be done for him. Some MPs have funnyly talked about how the government has announced, said, etc., that we have come out of the crisis. Again, it seems to me that I could take this opportunity to say that there is a definition of crisis, or recession. You know exactly where the state of economic activity crisis is, if in two quarters, one by one, you have a negative growth rate, or you have a decline in economic activity. As there is a definition of crisis, so there is a definition of exiting the crisis. Coming out of a crisis, that's the moment when economic activity doesn't fall anymore, and it doesn't fall anymore. We can talk about whether we are satisfied or not at the rate of recovery, but the economic activity has stopped falling. Based on what you said, Mr. Popovic, I'm not so sure that you listened very carefully to what I said on Question, but let's first talk about what you said first, which is the agricultural budget itself. You know, the sources of funding for the agrarian budget are different. You know very well that there are two columns in the budget that talk about the total funds allocated to agrarian policy or the agrarian budget. You always keep looking at just one thing, not the sum, just one thing. Row size, when you look at that first column, the agrarian budget is about 18-19 billion dinars. If you added the second one to that first column, which is also present in a transparent way in the budget, you would get the amount of subsidies of 25-26 billion dinars. It's 0.8 or 0.9 percent of the social product and it's not a small amount at all. You said I boasted about the size of the deficit somewhere. I'm just a conservative economist and I don't like the deficit either in private life or in the state, but I can't say that the deficit isn't a regular instrument of economic policy, and I'm going to do it again. You only justify the size of the deficit if it is oriented towards the economy, and I will tell you, Mr Popovic, that it is for subsidies – and what it is, it is something that the state gives to the economy – for the subsidized loans and infrastructure projects, so that is what the state gives to the economy, that is what is the measure of the discretionary power of this government, has just gone away, this rebalance confirmed, 112 billion dinars. So exactly what's the deficit. Also, when you talk about small investments, it's not just being invested from budget funds, so some standard, some measure is three percent of the social product for investment. But when you look at everything, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of individual municipalities, JP Roads, all that invest, this country finances about 115 billion dinars. The percentage of the social product is also not a small amount. You criticized my optimism, or it may have seemed so to me, and I say to myself that I am a moderate optimist, but I also learned that in economic life expectations are very important. There's a man who's won the Nobel Prize on what the role and importance of expectations is, and he said one sentence, when you expect to see the nemaniac under the bed, you'll really see. So you can't have good results if your expectations are pessimistic. When it comes to the budgetary process and the transparency of the budget or the openness of the budget, as finance minister, I will not accept being responsible for the situation. I just want to be responsible for the changes in that process. So the international institution isn't just talking about me, it's talking about all of us. So it's about me and us. What I know unequivocally and you all know, before 2008, there was no budget revision. She didn't exist in Serbia. It may have existed in Ghana, I don't know, for Ghana I don't really know, but I know that since the 1970s, the 20th century review has been an integral part of the budget. It hasn't been in Serbia since 2008. I also know, by simply comparing different budgets, that the budget of the Republic of Serbia since 2008 and that of the first rebalancing, even if precisely, unequivocally correctly, shows the fiscal position, so today everyone here is criticising it and certainly exactly giving a series of information, much more than any previous one, on which you have so much material to criticise. Otherwise, the content of the final account includes the audit report, so that as soon as the audit report is completed, you and the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. What I notice in the presentation of a letter that I also find unusually appreciated is that very often when it criticises the government and me as a minister, it says, this state, so this state, so I always get the impression that it's only this country, which is not really true. I am also pleased that today, inflation, which has only been above that goal set by the NBS since October, means 6 plus minus 2, has become such a problem that someone is declaring himself a winner, such as the state, and all the other losers. I think we're all losing inflation together, not getting the state's income, and those who think they're getting income, even though they're economic analysts, also know from literature that there's this famous Olivier-Tanzi effect that just says the opposite, with inflation going down, tax revenues. However, the biggest part of the discussion and criticism, and that might end, is that this budget is unconstitutional somewhere and there has been a lot of criticism and that is why I would like to end it. We should receive a formal-legislative response from the Assembly Legislative Committee; according to my knowledge, the committee did not conclude that this budget was unconstitutional. I've read in person 184 many times, which defines the size of the Vojvodina budget. I consider myself to be elementally written, which means, one, I know how to read and, two, I understand what I've read. I wanted to share that article with you 184. So, "the budget of the AP Vojvodina is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with the 3/7 of the AP Vojvodina being used to finance capital expenditures". Nowhere does it say that the cost side of the Republic of Serbia's budget should provide those 7% for the AP Vojvodina budget. Also, Article 24. The budget system law says that there are different sources of funding for AP Vojvodina's competences, means 10-15 different sources. I will not enter into the analysis of these numbers, but, let's say, the MP very carefully analyzed the structure of expenditure and the structure of the revenue of the duchy budget, and then he said – well, the duchy budget goes through non-intentional transfers to municipalities. That, you'll admit, is not capital expenditure. They're non-intentional. So, how do you know what they are, do they cover liquid or capital expenditure? Also, the MP, with whom I had a meeting and discussed it, said he did not think that local levels of government should be conditioned and that local levels of government have some independence when it comes to their budget. In this way, he said the AP Vojvodina budget could not be responsible for local government budgets. Therefore, it must not condition that these transfers only go for capital expenditure. On the other hand, it wants the RS budget to be responsible for the consumption structure defined by the AP Vojvodina budget. Based on this member of the Constitution, we can all figure out whether the Budget Law is unconstitutional. In the end, despite criticism, it was a kind word, but for the public and all of us, I would remind myself of another finance minister that we all have a good opinion of and that has entered the legend, which is Laza Pacu. There are written sources that he was a great finance minister. Interestingly, there are no written sources about what kind of doctor he was, since he was a doctor by profession. Since I've been looking at all his budgets, believe me, I know that Laza Patchu has always had or mostly, to be honest, budget deficits. I've always wondered, would you criticize him as you criticise me? So Laza Pachu funded the wars, Laza Pachu had a budget deficit that wasn't small. Laza Pacu financed the deficit by borrowing Serbia's state. Lazar Pachu introduced the word "so-called" into economic terminology. "Flying loans," these are new loans to pay off the old one. I don't know if he used his fist as his argument and hit his hand on the table, but I do know that this Laza Patch, whom we all love, and we're happy to remember, at a time of a very stable dinar, has approved an increase in expenditures by 30%. In this way, I would like to thank you all, both for the frequent criticism and for some commendation, and to ask you to reconsider again in the voting day, to support the package of financial laws, and above all the rebalancing of the RS budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47319	I am concluding a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010, with proposals for decisions to give consent to amendments and amendments to the 2010 Financial Plans of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance and National Employment Service; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Insurance of Deposits, Proposal for a Law amending and liquidating banks and insurance companies; Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Republic of Serbia under the responsibility of the Law on Deposit Insurance of the Banks, Proposal for the Law on the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Law on the Prevention of Money and Financing of Counter-Furys and the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia in respect of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia to the RTB Bor – Grupa-Grupračkob. in restructuring. Before I set a break, on the basis of Article 90(2) and Article 87, I would like to inform you, i.e. to remind Members of the debate in particular, and according to the amendments submitted to the draft laws which have been the subject of a common principle-specific Single Search, we cannot begin before Thursday 25th November at 14:00 hours, according to our Rules of Procedure, that, between the conclusion of the debate in principle and the beginning of the debate in particular, it must be at least 2400 hours. We'll be working after 6:00 today. I'm now setting a break by 15.00 hours, when we'll move to the second point of a single search. People's MPs ask - when do they change? I don't want to fool the National Assembly or the transfer, because I just said it couldn't be done before Thursday, November 25th at 2:00 p.m., according to the Rules of Procedure. People's MP, I have to inform the National Assembly what it can and can't do, and during the session as we do and at what pace we do, then we'll exchange a notice about what time the debate starts in detail. Thank you. At 3 p.m., we continue our work in the afternoon. [[After break – 15:00]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our session in the afternoon. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly of Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, on the joint principle and uniform review of the proposals for the laws of the 8th to 12th agenda, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure, in addition to them, invited the sittings to attend: Zoran Ćirović, Assistant Minister of Finance, Jelena Marjanović, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Dejan Lasica, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure, Vesna Stojanović, Head of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Višnja Kuzmanovic, Assistant at the Ministry of Finance, Slavica Višnić, Head of the Group in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Vojin Jović, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Regional Development. We move to the 8-12th item of the agenda: THE PROPOSAL OF THE KINES EXPORT-IMPORT BANK FOR THE COUNTRY-BORCH Most, THE EBRD FOR MANY AND THE SINGLE COURT 10, THE ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENT OF THE BELGRADE AND FREE TRADE WITH KAZAHSTAN (joint principle and uniform exaggeration) I remind you that under Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97, we are going to move to the 8-12th point of the agenda: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and that is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; MEP group SPS - 18 minutes; Parliament group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would also like to inform you that, according to this agenda item, MPs: Jovan Nesovic, the G17 Plus MP group; Dejan Mirovic, the SRS parliamentary group. I ask all other parliamentary groups if they have decisions on authorised representatives to deliver them, so that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 170a of Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for a Loan for a Preferred Customer for the Zemun-Borch Bridge Project with associated traffic, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a Borrower and the Chinese "Export Bank" as a Borressor, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (EPS Project for Counts) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Free Trade between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kazakhstan. Does the proposing minister, Minister Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Do the rapporteurs of the committees want the word (legislative committee – Vlatko Ratkovic)? No, I don't. ) National MP Branko Ljiljak, vice president of the Finance Committee, does he want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Radojko Obradovic, the first, followed by MP Jovan Nesovic, and MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47321	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is a great pleasure to see Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic with us. He hasn't been attending public meetings lately, but I can see he's still coming to the Assembly and I'm very happy about it. I am sorry that Minister Dragutinovic is not with us, because we started an interesting story two weeks ago and the topics were loans and guarantees. Two weeks later, we discuss almost the same thing again, in fact, because two weeks ago we were discussing Serbia's debt for 350m euros, and today we have a new 475m euros on the agenda. The question arises – is this necessary, justifiable and necessary? When we look at which loans are, one is for restructuring RTB Bor, the other is for the Zemun-Borca Bridge Project, the third was for the EPS, the fourth is for the Serbian Railways, the fifth is for the bypass around Belgrade. Is that necessary? I think so. When we look at why we discussed everything here in some previous period, it was loans for education, science, health, water, justice, state administration, local self-government, municipal infrastructure, to support the construction of funds that exist in Serbia. Are all these loans necessary? When you look at all the problems there are, of course all these loans are necessary. Do you know there's a word, Mr. Gristle, the concept of priority? Do you know that there is a government policy that needs to define what is necessary and what will give the best results? You imagine the average four-member family in Serbia, parents and two children. They're lucky both parents are working, bringing home the average salary that 34,500 was in the last month, and imagine that they're setting their priorities, so it's a hairdresser, painting, food, books, everything they need. What would happen if they decided to meet all their priorities one month and then how would that family function if it behave like that -- that's what we should do, let's spend it? What would happen, or how would they react if the current really collected for that 60%, as announced by the directors of Serbia's Elektroprivreda? And, of course, no class differences and no other stuff. What if people from the government were in charge of their budgets with loans like this? Would they pick priorities the same way and what would happen if they had to pay back these loans? There seems to be only one consensus in this government, which is borrowing and, of course, every coalition partner has the right to take their share of the cake. Someone will tell the minister, I'm really sorry she's not in the O.R. right now, but the question is, is there a country developing without borrowing? The answer is no. All countries have to borrow, all countries are in debt for capital projects, and it's no secret. But, as there are families, companies, and countries take all capital things out of credit, and there is a difference between successful families and failed families, successful companies and failed companies, successful states and failed states. Some don't know how to choose their priorities, they're in charge of everything, and when the time comes for these loans to come back, there are serious problems. None of these loans we discussed two weeks ago, which we are discussing today, have one letter on the cost of the project itself. Do you need a bridge? Of course you should, but only when you put everything on paper in one country will you see what gives the best results and what is the most efficient investment. There is not a single letter on how much the total debt of the state will be when these loans are ratified. The minister said it was a topic of discussion in the morning, related to the cost of borrowing. This year alone, 300m euros are being rejected. For example, 300m euros are budgets. The budgets for 70 municipalities in Serbia are lower when it starts from the most underdeveloped to the most developed, than those 300m euros. For local self-government, the budget allocates 10m euros, for the most underdeveloped municipalities of 5m euros, and only 300m euros are allocated to interest. It's a matter of priority, then. Obviously, the basic policy of this government is to everyone while there is, and when there is no, then you say no, and we'll see together what we're going to do. Is that a responsibility? I'm sure he didn't. The finance minister said the responsibility criterion was that six budgets were adopted in the 28 months that the government existed. The seventh was supposed to be here a month ago, so he's not here yet. Whether it's a measure of responsibility or whether it's a responsibility that needs to be written in the budgets. The minister forgot to say that in three years, no budget has arrived within the legal deadline. I don't know how long it takes for the government to work and how many finance ministers to have this government on stage and the law to arrive within the deadline laid down by the Budget System Act. What do we do with that? There's no final bill. It was supposed to be July 15th in the assembly procedure, today it's November 24th, and it's still missing. The minister says we're waiting for the DRI report. It's logical to see what the DRI report says first, and then we'll deliver the final bill. Is it logical? I think so. Why doesn't it say in the law you proposed ten days ago that we discussed here? Why did you not write in the Budgetary System Act – will be delivered and placed in the procedure when the State Audit writes its report. Why does it say July 15th if there's a report waiting for the DRI? I suppose he measured the responsibility of respecting the law? What's the deficit today? Does anyone know that? What would happen, for example, with a company or a citizen who oversteps his minus in the bank. The second the bank blocks his account. What happens to all those companies, you ministers know best because you owe a lot to construction firms, who don't pay VAT in the law of 10 days? What happens to companies that don't deliver the final bill by February 28th? What happens to those citizens who don't report income taxes until March 15th? What are the sanctions? They're getting more serious and serious and the penalties are getting bigger. The government alone is not subject to any punishment. Obviously, there is a rule that one rule applies to the government and another to the citizens of Serbia. Look at what Minister Dulic says. You're an engineer, a builder, so I assume you've seen what's going on around this barracks project and about 5,000 apartments. Minister Dulic says the great thing is that the adoption of the Law on Support for the Construction Industry has practically abolished the Law on Public Procurement, that this law has been slow, that the procedures have been long-lasting and that, in a direct way, since this was done by his ministry, a much better price has been achieved, much faster and much more effectively. Let's cancel the Public Procurement Act. When we order sour water and paper clips, then the Public Procurement Act can, and when we need to arrange 5,000 apartments, then the law on public procurement is a distraction. What does the city of Belgrade say about that? The state should not be a privileged investor, that for those apartments that have started to build no fees and that is not how it can work. It's obvious that one rule applies to the government and another rule to the citizens. Can any of the citizens say there's no money and that's why they won't pay the bill? What would happen to the one who doesn't pay the phone bill? Now Telekom has become very up-to-date, shut down the bill within 10 days. Only the Joint Affairs Authority owes 200 million dinars on behalf of unpaid bills, 100 million for heating, the debt for electricity is 84 million. The Belgrade Joint Affairs Administration has not paid compensation for construction land of 700m dinars. Phone bills of 20 million dinars. On the other hand, the state, according to the Union of Employers, owes a billion euros to construction firms. The question is, what's the real debt? One thing is what the budget says, but if you're late for those payments and wait for January 1st, then of course you respect the budget law and respect that deficit. I'd like to get some of the answers to these questions because that's what this debate is about, because we're talking about one thing and there's something else going on. No one knows what the deficit is today. Rebalance hasn't been adopted yet, probably the deficit allowed by law, 107 billion dinars. No one knows when the Budgetary System Act will be respected. No one knows when the 2009 final budget will be delivered. No one knows when the draft budget for 2011, and it was supposed to be here on November 1st. How we will respect the fiscal responsibility law that predicts that the total debt is 45% of GDP. Please convey my great apology to Minister Dragutinović. I made a serious mistake last time I discussed it. My assessment was, since the law predicted that 45% could be the debt that Serbia would be in charge of, I assumed it would be by the end of next year, I had no idea of these laws. I apologize to her because that percentage will be exceeded in the first few months of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47322	11 minutes and 30 seconds of time have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47323	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, four laws are in front of us today, three laws concerning the ratification of loans related to the construction of infrastructure in Serbia, one law on the ratification of loans related to the purchase of EPS equipment and a third agreement between the two countries. What is very important is to say that without the development of infrastructure, both energy, travel, rail, there is simply no economic development of the state. Countries where infrastructure is underdeveloped, such as the state of Serbia, cannot count on the inflow of foreign investment or attracting foreign investors, as well as domestic investors. If there is no good infrastructure development securely and regional development of the state itself and within the state itself, there are great disproportions and the state must then do everything it can to strengthen its infrastructure. What is also important to say that poor countries, the state of Serbia is a poor state, cannot finance the infrastructure on their own, can finance it in two ways. One is that especially large infrastructure projects on concessions. Another way is to borrow credit and work on building their infrastructure. Today we are talking about credit borrowing that will be taken by our public enterprises that will deal with the development of the infrastructure for which they are in charge. The other thing, also when it comes to the development of infrastructure, is that certain facilities are being done there, those facilities will certainly be engaged in certain operations whether foreign or domestic, normally it should always be sought to be a domestic operation, it will play a role in simply hiring certain people, and that means that we will also have economic growth. Today we spoke about budget rebalancing that the decline in construction was around 20% in 2010 and it is certainly important to build large infrastructure projects to increase the employment rate of construction operations, i.e. construction in Serbia. As far as the first law is concerned, the agreement should be seen as part of an agreement on basic technical and economic co-operation between the state of Serbia and the People's Republic of China to build a bridge from Zemun towards Borca. The agreement is a bilateral agreement and it was signed last year. I technically viewed the bridge Zemun – Borca is a bridge that is one kilometer long and 21 kilometers is needed to make access traffic. A large capital facility not only for the city of Belgrade but also for the state of Serbia as a whole. What should also be said is that it is an integral part of a future tour around the city of Belgrade in connection with Corridor 10, with Corridor 4 in Romania and with the whole area. It should be said that the total investment for this capital facility is barely $155m, 85% of this investment was taken from China's export-export bank and that's about $217m. The remainder of 15% is needed to be provided through the Ministry of National Investment Plans, and Belgrade should carry out land expropriation and technical preparation related to the construction of this large capital facility. It is clear in this section that three factors are very important, which is the People's Republic of China, their company that will perform the work, the Ministry of National Investment Plans, which should provide 15% of the participation and the city of Belgrade, which will be the biggest beneficiary of this future capital facility. What should also be said is that in a contract signed by 45% of the total investment on this bridge, which means quite an asset, domestic companies have to work or there will be domestic equipment that will be installed into that bridge. This in some ways promotes the development of a domestic construction industry and industry that is related to building material that is being built into bridges. What we need to say when we talk about being in charge, that task seems to me favourable if we can discuss the advantage of being in charge of a country. Credit is given for an 18-year-old period. Three years are the grace period and 15 years is the repayment of credit, and the annual fixed interest is 3%. I'm saying that today, if you want to be in charge, these are very favourable conditions. It's not good to be in charge, but if the borrowing is related to the construction of capital facilities, and this is a capital facility, related to the infrastructure, where the construction operation will be employed, then the justification of it is indeed great. Not to say how short it will cut a certain path, relieve traffic in Belgrade, and improve the operation of traffic in the capital itself. I hope that at the end of 2013 or 2014, as planned, the bridge can be completed and then it is a clear justification of one such project and it is complete, and I think it will be to the satisfaction of the government of the RS, the resolution ministries and the city of Belgrade. As far as the second loan is concerned, it is a loan taken by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development by the public undertaking "Serb Railways of Serbia". The state is also guaranteed here. The public company needs to pay that debt back. It is also important that through Corridor 10 we have good and fast railways both for competition and for our railways to be able to compete for the transport of goods, passengers and cargo and to have more revenue than they now have and for the company to be more profitable in their business. It is quite clear that today on Corridor 10 we have shares where trains are very slow moving, that they are narrow throats and that we have to work in the next period to increase the speed of these tracks to the projected speed that was once and it is quite clear that the reliability of the electric locomotives working on this Corridor 10 and it is not so God knows what for the simple reason why these electric locomotives, the old ones are often broken down and there are certain delays. For this reason, the 100m-euro loan, which is intended for three sub-projects, is also withdrawn. The first section refers to the rehabilitation of the 120km-long railway along Corridor 10 and to the introduction of a mechanism for the future maintenance of these railways. The second section refers to the purchase of 15 and more system locomotives. The third is about monitoring the entire project, which is important for both "Serb Railways" and for the country in general. The first part means that we have more quality railroads and safety on the tracks to make it bigger. The second part of the project means that the reliability of the system is increasing by having new electric locomotives that will go faster, em, which will not occur. The confidence of the system will be greater. The third thing is that we'll make it to those places after rehab, so it's going to increase speed, and it's going to be faster to transport goods, passengers to Corridor 10. What should also be said is that these projects also bring special attention to the rational use of energy. It seems very interesting to me that it is defined that there must be an energy efficiency unit within the framework of the Railway of Serbia. It seems to me that, by respecting all these agreements and all that is happening in the world today, we must have systems that rationally use electricity and this part has been taken into account so that there will be this special unit that will be within the public undertaking "Serb Railways", which will be tasked with monitoring, i.e. that energy is being used rationally in the next period, i.e. reducing energy consumption throughout the system. I say - loans are 100 million euros. The loan period is 15 years and the grace period is four years. The interest is the eurobor which is variable plus 1% margin. So Eurobor is something that's been brought in for six months. It is changing and certainly as it shrinks and increases, so this interest will also be reduced and increased. The idea is to improve communication on Corridor 10. I am absolutely sure that construction companies will compete domestically in the performance of works, especially in the rehabilitation of railways and I think that if the projects are finished in this part, then jobs can begin quickly, and that means success for the state and public enterprises, and I am sure when all this ends that the quality of the service provided by the "Serb Railways" in that part of our territory will be much better. The third infrastructure project is tied to a bypass around Belgrade for Sector B. It is quite clear that the bypass around Belgrade has long begun and has not been completed and we can say that the shame of the whole state and a little bit of the city of Belgrade. Some estimates suggest that the total value of investment for a bypass around Belgrade is about 362m euros, with the public enterprise "The Roads of Serbia", which is legally involved in maintaining and building state roads, this is a state road, should provide 120m euros, and the rest will be secured from credit. So far certain sections of the bypass around Belgrade have been made. Last year we ratified an agreement with the European Investment Bank. The borrower is a public company, "The Ways of Serbia". The state is also guaranteed in this case. At that time, we ratified a 60m-euro agreement to build a bypass around Belgrade on the same principle. Now it goes to the specification of the agreement with the European Investment Bank for a 40m-euro loan for the sector B, and this sector B covers the area, i.e. the link between Orlovaca and Avala, that is a length of 5.4km and in that part it is necessary, as planned by the project documentation of the public enterprise "The Roads of Serbia", to build five bridges and one tunnel, which really represents large construction works where, I am absolutely sure, our travel companies can carry out these works and it seems to me that they will be seriously competitive and that they can do the job. So it's also important here that project documentation is done, and it seems to me that everything is finished in that field, so it can simply be done very soon after the ratification of this agreement, especially when I say ratifications, I guess after the winter period, it can start to build this section of the road, and maybe even during the winter. What's important is that part of the road is designed as a classic highway for speeds of 120 kilometers, the width of the strip is 3.75 meters and there's that third tape that's defined there. It is important that this loan is 40m euros. Data is the possibility of interest being two -- whether it's fixed or variable interest, that's what we're going to choose. If it is a fixed interest, it is the interest that the European Investment Bank determines on an annual basis. If it's a variable interest, it's a eurobor that's determined six months, plus a certain range that's defined by the bank's business. The credit is given at 25 years, with seven years of grace period, and what's important about this loan is that you can withdraw the tranche by 31 December 2014. I suppose that on December 31st 2014, I hope that the roundabout around Belgrade, which has been discussed for 20 years, will be completed and that the capital will get a tour, and how much of this will be a disbursement of the city, the citizens of Belgrade know best, and I think it will be, I say, the success of the country in general and the city of Belgrade. The ratification of the guarantee agreement concerns the granting of an EPS guarantee for the purchase of smart, so-called, modern-day numbers. What's important is to say that there are some 3.5 million numbers in Serbia today, out of those 3.5 million numbered 3.1 million households, and around 400,000 were numbered by industrial consumers. It should also be said that 90% of total numbers are numbers that are electromechanical devices, which are mostly found in consumer and consumer apartments. They can be distracted and can simply be modified, and it is clear that analyses in Serbia's Elektroprivred show that in this way it is lost, or not to say a more ugly word, a large amount of energy that Serbia's electricity cannot charge. It is also important to say that about 25 years old, the average of today was numbered in Serbia and what is in the strategic plans for the development of Serbia's Elektroprivreda is to start by replacing these numbers with modern numbers. It's a process that can't happen very quickly. The EPS plans are to start this year, and the period will take about ten years. What is also important is that this 40m-euro loan will have some of its three components. The first component is to replace 250,000 of those 3,500,000 million, or 3.1. A million counts in households. So 250,000 households will get new numbers. It simply won't be a burden for households. The second part was 7,000 figures, with the equipment needed for them to be installed into industrial consumers. This loan will also be spent on the purchase of computer hardware and software. This means that in the future we will have a remote loading or reading of electricity consumption with these numbers, the creation of a database based on these readings and the simple management of that database and the integration of the entire system into the existing EPS system, which will be very important and good for the state of Serbia and the company. What these new numbers need to be introduced is that the EPS will also have more efficient management and control of the distribution network. Costs will be reduced both commercial and technical maintenance of electrical numbers. What is also important is that the degree of supply and invoiced electricity charges will increase, which I think is very important. The analyses that were done in the EPS are that this is a very profitable thing to do for one simple reason, that the return of funds in the first year is 20% each year. In fact, if you invest 40m euros in exchange for numbers, in five years, 40m euros will be returned to you through an increase in the rentability of the entire system. It is quite clear that it is the imperative of this public enterprise. What is also important to say is the technical characteristics of this loan. He's been given for 12 years. Three years is a grace period and he's got interest, euribor plus one percent margin. I think it is something that, in the future, the EPS with the replacement of these numbers can give itself this loan, and that the state will only be a guarantee, which the European Investment Bank insists on. In the end, what I'm saying is that when a country is in debt, it's not good. When the state is in charge of doing its country's infrastructure, when it is tasked to help its company increase its collection and reduce losses in its network and increase its profitability, it is a good thing. Knowing that the state of Serbia does not have its own resources to single out into infrastructure and knowing that the EPS itself does not have the means to make its own incomes a substitute for electricity numbers, it is clear that these solve major state problems, as well as problems related to public enterprises. As for G17 plus, it will support all four ratifications in the voting day, as well as an agreement signed with Kazakhstan and calls on other parliamentary groups to do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47324	The 18-minute mandated representative of the parliamentary group was used. The word is Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47325	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has carefully studied all these contracts and all these ratifications. We believe that much of it is harmful to the Republic of Serbia. In the voting day, we will not vote, and especially not on loans from the European Investment Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Of course, we do not think that the minister has a bad intention when representing these loans and when he is struggling to raise the level of infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia, but above all it should be said that he is limited, firstly to the malicious European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Government policy which can be reduced to so-called. Wing – that the EU has no alternative. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where the Republic of Serbia is due to be in charge of some 140m euros for these first two loans, is not some organisation that has shown success in the last 20 years in that basic goal when it was founded in 1990. You must know that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is founded to help the countries of Central and Eastern Europe move to market economy. In the last 20 years, however, you will admit that this is quite a period of time to see results. According to the Commission, Mr Smith, who is a Nobel Prize winner, of 20 and some of the most successful countries in the so-called The transition over the last 20 years, there are no countries from Eastern and Central Europe. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has failed in its basic function to help the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. On the other hand, the same bank, where we are in debt today, was only made in 2006 and worth 2.5 billion euros. Also, instead of helping countries that are so-called. The transition process, the bank deals with the purchase of banks in Eastern European countries. The best example is her stake in the Commercial Bank in our country. Therefore, the least to say is to be careful when the state is in charge of such an institution, not only for the above reasons, but also because the United States is the largest shareholder of this bank, and the shareholder of this bank is also the European Commission, so that it is seen that these are related organisations and that they have a coherent policy towards the Republic of Serbia. In particular, this can be seen in the case of a 100m-euro guarantee law proposal for rail infrastructure, and in that sense, it is argued that it is about Corridor 10, improving machinery, obtaining 15 multi-system electroloquisms and renovating around 10% of all modern railways in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, as in all loans, when it comes to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we have a member of the 2nd hire of consultants. So far, practice tells us that these consultants are likely to be from the EU. You will remember the example of the European Agency for Reconstruction, which has just been engaged by EU consultants in privatising FAP and other companies. So, the money from the loan from those so-called so-called. Donations don't go to our companies, our experts, they go to the so-called EU experts. What is particularly controversial here, and why is this loan harmful, when seen in the context of the general policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the EU? It's enough to compare the data from the rebalancing we discussed today and yesterday with the amount of credit intended for the railroad. You certainly know that by applying the Transition Trade Agreement, the Republic of Serbia has lost 100m euros at a minimum estimate in the last year alone. So, instead of showing one kind of economic, political and any other courage and breaking up with the harmful application of the Transition Trade Agreement, the government would have just saved these 100m euros given under unfavourable conditions for the renovation of the railway. When we look in a broader context and compare these facts with the statement by Mr Deger, a European Commission representative in Serbia, that it is necessary to privatise the Railway because she is a loser, and on the other hand, he argues that Telekom should also be privatised. So, it doesn't make any sense, according to his construction, both losers and those who make a profit of 150m euros a year are privatised. If we compare the facts of this loan ourselves, you will see that it has a deadline of about 15 years and, therefore, from the EU we will get 100m euros under unfavourable conditions in 15 years, while at the same time sending a billion and 650m euros as a result of the losses caused by the Transition Trade Agreement to the EU. This is actually the European way, and that is what is happening in practice. Of course, it can be hidden by propaganda that the EU has no alternative, but the fact itself shows that these are harmful loans because they are within the framework of the EU's general policy, the European Commission towards the Republic of Serbia. As for this 100m-euro amount, which took place due to the implementation of the Transition Trade Agreement, it is also much higher by some estimates, because if you compare the 2008 situation, that the customs revenues at that time amounted to about 743m euros, and revenues from this year, you will see that these losses may be much higher, that they amount to around 250m euros. Also, this loan, which is intended for railways, states that interest is favourable and can be said at this point because the eurobor is at about 1%. However, I will remind you that in January 2002 the euro was 4%, so it can be easy to pay at these 100m euros interest which will be more unfavourable and will be 5%, which is completely something that can be expected in the next period. As regards the second loan to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is worth 40m euros, it is also unfavourable and it says in fact that Serbia, not only is a guarantor, but also a primary debtor in Article 2. It also states in Article 3 that without delay the Republic of Serbia will be informed of the need to pay the debt and will have to do so within three days, which is more than a short term, you will admit. From a legal point of view, Article 5 states that the European Bank can change the contract for its own benefit. This is scandalous from the legal point of view, that one party can change the contract already signed, and the other party has no right to do so, so that by concluding this contract, the Republic of Serbia is in an unfavourable position. In the event of a bank breach of the contract, the Republic of Serbia cannot ask the EU for any guarantees, although the EU is often guaranteed loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So, to these unfavourable contracts, we are led by a phrase that the EU has no alternative. What we don't say openly, we're not against building infrastructure, we're not against building railways, we're not against building roads, but everything that's done has to be measured. In that sense, I can give you a few examples, you must know that. You know that in Italy, the Autostrada del Sole, between Milan and Naples, was built for nearly 15 years, about 600 kilometers. Despite major investments in these infrastructure projects, however, there was no increase in standards in southern Italy. Moreover, many companies went bankrupt. Therefore, a complete set of measures should be used to raise standards, to raise wages, pensions and production, and not just to base one card or infrastructure. Let me give you another example. Japan had an incredible economic growth by 1990. Then they came into recession and then the Japanese government used all its resources and even owed up to 157 per cent of the amount of public debt to build the infrastructure. Somewhere around 130 rivers have been rerouted and dams have been built, huge roads. Do you know what happened? GDP has fallen, the recession is still going on, and the Japanese government, which also has foreign reserves, has technology, has failed with the so-called. Public works to get out of recession. You will admit that this will hardly succeed, and Serbia, which is in a much more unfavourable position than such a developed economy, and I think you should think hard and not blindly apply everything that is required of the IMF, from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Because public works in America, which is obviously a model for all projects in our country, did not in itself bring an increase in the American economy, but was passed a law that raised customs duties, even a rigid law that limited the possession of gold for private households was passed. So there must be one set of measures that will follow the construction of roads. However, under the influence of the EU, it is exactly the opposite because, you will admit, at the moment of the economic crisis, that customs are actually being reduced because of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and that 100m euros are being lost each year, it would not last a much better and more developed economy than our own. Also, that should be said openly, again I don't personally blame you, I think it's simply the ultimatum of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I don't see the purpose of foreign companies, primarily Austrians, who are in fact holding a monopoly in the building, getting the best jobs for the bypass, for our corridors, because I think you'll probably agree that our construction industry has a long tradition and that it was very successful, starting with Mostogradation, the Energy Project and other known companies, which, due to political conditions, cannot get jobs in their home country, but have to go to the Russian market, where unfortunately, more favourable conditions for our builders than in the Republic of Serbia. You will admit that it is absurd that the bridge near Beška, which was built by the Bridge in 1970, was built by an Austrian firm. I can't accept the claim that Austrian firms are better than ours or that they offer better conditions. If you look at Mr Goran Rodic's statement from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which stressed that this year's decline in the construction industry is about 20%, and he specifically stressed that just two to three years from now, the EU firms will literally destroy our builders. So this is not what we claim to be an opposition party that is against the EU, nor do we claim to represent someone's interests, but rather the official, the clerk, however you will, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. That's the facts. In this sense, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should take into account other experiences, not only those that I have cited but also the experience, which I do not say, Ireland, Iceland and all those countries that have been destroyed, in fact their financial system has been destroyed, precisely because of the interference of these European banks and their branches operating in their home countries. In Ireland there are extraordinary taxes for foreign investment. They had and still have about 160 American firms. What happened? Now they will have to have a deficit in the 30% budget, 30% is a ten times higher figure than the one prescribed by the Stability Pact whose member is Ireland. So, with the phrase that everything in the EU is ideal for honey and milk to flourish there, one should cross and look into the truth in the eyes that precisely economic indicators in both the building and the banking system and in all other accompanying activities show that it is necessary to focus on what is on its own strength and what is not to say about co-operation with our friends, but real friends, such as those in the Russian Federation. Also, as regards the Treaty on Free Trade with Kazakhstan, it is obvious, and it is no secret, as a consequence of Serbia's 7.10.2010 trip to Astana. We saw that this free trade deal was signed and we're not against it. We think it's a good deal, that the market has a perspective, not only because the country's gross domestic product is several times bigger than ours, is about 180 billion dollars last year, not only because the country has a large oil production of 1.5 million barrels a day and not just because it's connected to the Russian Federation and Belarus market in a duty-free relationship, but also because, according to President Kazakhstan, imports of drugs are about 700 to 800 million dollars a year. So there's one chance for our products, for products first of all in that area, and when you look at this free trade contract, you'll see that there are no drugs in exceptions, so the drugs from this country can be imported into such a large market. However, we are coming back to what I said earlier, a harmful phrase that the EU has no alternative. Harmful above all, I will not be dealing with political reasons regarding Kosovo and Metohija at all, it is clear to everyone, but economically. You certainly know as an educated man that by means of a contract from Rome, it is the European Community's founding agreement, in Article 133, that EU members must then lead – a common trade policy on customs and trade policies towards third countries. So, when RS enters the EU one day, it will have to withdraw from the free trade agreement with Kazakhstan that is favourable, from the free trade agreement with Belarus, which is also favourable and of course, from what is most favourable because of the size of the market, from the free trade agreement with the Russian Federation. This will lead us to join the EU, and this should be made clear to our citizens, to all those who unfortunately deceive themselves with the phrase that the EU has no alternative. We believe that in this context, steps should be taken and any responsible and courageous government must bear this in mind and focus on the subsidies, primarily on rail-oriented subsidies. You know that the rebalance provides for about 111m euros in railway subsidies and that is the amount lost under the Transitional Trade Agreement. Imagine that there is one will, courage, to break up the implementation of the Transition Trade Agreement and that, if not more than 100m euros are directed at railway subsidies, which would be for a public enterprise such as "Serb Railways", which has 20,000 employees and certainly many more connected people, more than well. Therefore, I appeal to you as to Mrs Dragutinovic, to make an effort within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to show some kind of courage and to apply the start of the Hungarian model that the Government of Mr. Orban applied, to break negotiations with the IMF, to really introduce a tax on currency transactions, to tax foreign banks and to shift the burden of the crisis to those who have higher, and these are foreign banks, foreign companies, including construction firms from Austria and we talked about them about these loans and those domestic monopolies and tycoons, and then you will come up with figures like the Hungarians came up to a huge 700m euros. You will admit, at a time when the budget deficit is about a billion and 200m euros, it is more than a great figure to help our citizens, pensioners and all others who depend on the budget to live better and more decently.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47326	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47327	Once again, it is my pleasure to participate in the work of Parliament. I'm sorry, colleague Obradovic came out, I respect him maximum, and he could sit here instead of me, but I would never ask him why the infrastructure loans, and that's the only thing that makes us different. Mr. Nesovic explained all four loans quite nicely, and Mr. Mirovic urged me to say a few things and make the discussion a little lively. So, she's absolutely right, the RS government in this term, and that's what I've been talking about since 2008, there's this thing that you've been talking about about our infrastructure and construction operation. So, the goal is that on projects of European importance, not because we are going to Europe, but because we create better conditions for life, at Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, and by rail and by road, our businesses are working. Of course, later I will address Mr. Obradovic with special respect. That's the government's goal. I remind you that everything that has been done so far for these two and a half years has been done in that direction. Where do we disagree? None of the projects we're talking about here today, but let's keep on my restore, on the infrastructure, aren't just designed to pull the money and hire our builders. All these projects are longer. Unfortunately, I'm many years old, so I remember working on these projects in the 1990s. They were also proven to be the most profitable projects, beware, I am talking about the 1990s and Corridor 10, as the most profitable projects for affirmation and realization of Serbian difficulties. So, when we talk about Corridor 10 on the road, he is now in realisation, with a billion and 200 million loans that we have provided, with the grace period that you have talked about here, from EBRD, EIB and World Bank, we are building a 360km highway, we end him in 4 years, from 2008 to 2012, or five, forgive me, I see that some are criticising me for deadlines, and for years we have done nothing, we are finishing a net foreign exchange inflow, please, my colleague Obradović, I am sorry that there is no Shami here or Dragan Todorovic, and Velje, we are also seeking more than a foreign exchange inflow of 100%. The net foreign exchange inflow from the highway today is 100 million. So, ten years from now, we're returning the loan that we've taken and every project that's been done in the government of RS, I have to say that I don't insult the others, in which I participate, so it counts, Mr Mirovic, as an innovative project, either as a need for Europe or as a matter of fact. It's the same thing with the railroad. That's not what I'm talking about. Of course, when we take loans from abroad, where I totally agree now, these loans from these banks we talked about are the most favourable, but these banks dictate their terms. You have to go to tenders, prequalifications, and that's six months, three months. You have to respect all the regulations of banks and, of course, give jobs to those who are most favourable. There we now with our operation, which unfortunately thanks to wild privatisation, I must say, without pretention to insult my coalition partners, because in eight years our entire construction industry has been torn apart, we all know, wild privatisation has taken away all major enterprises, especially in infrastructure, "Partisan Road", Planum, Ratko Mitrovica, etc. Privatised companies that have maintained roads cannot build them, technology must change, personnel must change, etc. It's now the pioneering work we're doing today, and I'm doing it by force, our operatives are working in the north. I'll finish that job in time and learn to work, then go to far more important jobs. I'm sorry, I'm a little excited when I talk about it, and I like you to listen in the afternoon. Then let's go into the world, etc. It's nothing new than a recipe. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia has found opportunities and strength to hire our operatives, and you see the criticisms that I am suffering positively today, and I will suffer them further, but our businesses will have a chance. However, what are we asking of our companies? To prepare for competition with foreign companies. I'm just saying, there's an open construction site down south today, you saw it on TV, I wasn't watching it, but I wanted to come over here before I went down to take a picture, 15 new kilometers got an Alpine. The Alpine is 500 of our workers, so we understand each other. The Alps took 500 of our workers, but they were the cheapest. Of course, because they have credits, they have credits from their parent companies. So, both Mostogradnja, and Energoproject, and Ratko Mitrovic, Planum and all of our companies will stand on their feet on the project of realisation of Corridor 10, believe me, but we must have patience and help these companies master this job. I'm sorry, there's another iron bridge in Novi Sad. Our fourth, fifth, goes with foreigners, and Bridge is a worldwide company. The Bridge is a company that deserves full attention and in that part, believe me, Mr Mirovic, and all MPs here who do not trust me, the state in this mandate, the government in this mandate will work to get our businesses in line. Of course, with responsibility for the projects, there are no delays and other problems. When you talk about the railroad, the railroad is our greatest developmental opportunity. That's exactly what you're saying about locomotives right now. Along Corridor 10, all our companies are metal industry, you know, from "North" Subotica, via "Gossa", "Minella", car factories in the King, etc. That's the development of our railroad. Again, the biggest foreign exchange inflow is in traffic. I'm sorry there are no colleagues, Shami, but my colleague Obradovic will confirm that to him. The biggest net foreign exchange inflow, but we need to build infrastructure. So that's what I'm asking you as people to think about when we're talking about these loans that are just as good for us, the greatest chance of ours and which, in this situation, the state should now take. One more important question. I immediately asked the Prime Minister if we, so much know about the economy, in these areas, probably Mrs. Tabakovic will explain it to me, red, blue, etc. They said, "We are not in charge of the land. I haven't been in those streams in eight years. So we're not in charge of the country. I didn't believe it, Mr. Mirovic, it's a very important piece of information, that Corridor 10 will continue to be interesting for Europe. I didn't believe it, but when the loans came on record, because I remember how young we were then a young engineer, we spent time during Comrade Tito when we were taking a $100m loan for the Belgrade-Bar track, two years negotiating with that same bank, and the man was the world's first statesman, then, out of America and Russia. So, we have now obtained these loans in record time and therefore I agree that a good host has to keep an eye on it, but, of course, for everything, it must have an economic calculation and a confirmation of the rentability of each of these projects. I'll never agree to take any credit or to give money to projects that don't have the fissility of studies that say they're profitable projects. So the project to modernise Serbian railways and build a highway in Corridor 10 are innovative projects and therefore I ask you to trust me and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47328	National MP Rade Obradovic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47329	Two or three minutes? I think three. (President: Two. I don't think so, I'm sure, two minutes. Usually there's no replica, so that's why I'm surprised. I agree with Mr. Mrkonjic. We've had opportunities to cooperate in various forms. Once upon a time while he was still director of the CIP, we were working on the Prokop project for the first time. He may have forgotten it, and now I remind him. I don't agree with you that the biggest net foreign exchange inflow is for the state of traffic, I think the biggest net foreign exchange inflow is from the building. The building was our biggest export opportunity. Why there are no more serious construction firms, it's a big question for all of you and all of us. I trust you completely, and I don't doubt anything you've said, I'm just asking you to deliver to us as soon as possible all these evaluations and analyses that have been made for all these loans, since we haven't had a chance to see them. You'll agree, trusting each other is one thing, but something that's a legal obligation and what the law says is something else. The other thing is how do we help the home building and how does the state support our companies working abroad again? If they are unable to be the cheapest in the country, how will our construction firms work on all those markets they worked abroad? You and I remember a time when we worked directly in the profession and when our companies ruled South America and when they were in charge in Africa and when the good part of Asia covered our companies. When it's converted into a foreign exchange inflow and what we've produced and implemented then, then it's a big question why can't we do it today? I don't think we're the only ones who haven't done nuclear power plants, unless the Krško nuclear power plant counts, but in the world we've done absolutely all the facilities and there's no reason why we shouldn't do it today. The problem with our construction is that it really does not have the support of the state and cannot appear in the competition of other countries and other companies that have this support. That's our serious problem. If our companies can't be the most competitive in the country and if the state owes our companies, then it's a long-term serious problem that you have to solve, and so do I.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47330	The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47331	I'm glad that colleague Obradovic, and I'm going to repeat, an absolute man who may be sitting here, perhaps more, not getting into it, sitting in more places for me and me instead of him. So, colleague Obradovic, I totally agree with you, but when we talk about what made it conditional, without the pretentiousness of going back and I'm known as a man who doesn't talk about what happened, but what I do today and what happens when I leave, it's important to me, I have to say that we've been destroying what was good from the previous period. I'm asking this without any political connotation. Trust me so much. So there's no company. Now I'm going to say, it may not be directed to talk about it, but you are people who are more responsible than I am for this country, last night I spoke to the president of the state, we were ourselves, of course, and we were returning to the game of engineer Dejan Kovacevic, your director from before 2000, for engagement. What does that mean? We don't have, unfortunately, any personnel today who would like to enter a company like this where there's no money, because in other places, in banks, there's more money in agencies. All these structures of engineers that I'm meeting now, which are great, they're asking how much they pay. There are hundreds of thousands in the government, you know that. Now Jorgenka's gonna check in there, and she's gonna see that I lied. Rade, that's a big problem. I reminded the president that even though Mr Kovacevic, with all due respect, because one associate, Dejan Kovacevic, from Mostogradnja, is another Dejan, the third one is me, but I still miss Dr Jovan Krkobibic, so that is one of the big problems. So when we talk about another problem, it's the frames. Good personnel, unfortunately, either went to private businesses, or went to some other institutions, and those they did sometimes are gone. That's why the state, you're right, must be behind the creation of new personnel that could carry these jobs in these companies. Another very important thing. When we talked about loans, my colleague Mirovic came out, now he's not here, of course, that each of the loans, I'm skeptical of these commercial loans, which I must say, Belgrade certainly needs four more bridges at least. You know there's 160,000 vehicles going through Gazela today, and that's the biggest problem. We need to deploy that traffic across Ada, across this big bridge and towards Borca, etc. And relieve Gazela. I'm sure those loans have their own price. The credit that we are now negotiating with the Russians for the Belgrade Node and the Valjevo-Loznica railway also has its price, but what is good in these loans? Foreign companies have funding and foreign companies can bring us technological innovations. Let's say, from the Russian loan, since you don't know the details, I haven't told you about it, it's going to be on the agenda here, we're talking about the railways, the Belgrade knot, those elements that they can give, that we don't have ourselves. That's the quality of that loan. So that's the quality of that loan, and we'll work together with their businesses. In these commercial loans, we make sure that no money is thrown away for any other calculation, except for these purposes that we're talking about. Our goal is to hire our workers and once again argue, and someone has challenged it, most journalists don't know it, at Corridor 10 today on the north side around it and serving on it and doing 100,000 of our citizens. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47332	Right on line, MP Dejan Mirovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47333	We agree that the minister and my little bit that all forces need to be used to get home operations as many projects as possible to develop infrastructure. Unfortunately, the domestic construction industry is increasingly a subcontractor, that's the problem. In that sense my discussion was directed. I appeal to you to invest your authority and your education so that they will no longer be subcontractors, but also to be the bearers of these jobs. I also urge you to make one effort within the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to assist our development projects and our builders on the Russian market. In this sense, too, since this is mutual co-operation, for mutual benefit, all the strength needs to be directed that this documentation, which you will almost acknowledge for over two years since the visit of the President of the Russian Federation, is not yet finished in connection with the railways, etc., and there is a kind of responsibility and seriousness in the sense that this is our strategic direction in economic terms. My discussion focused on that, however, as regards the EU and so on. European standards and credits, it's not as great and as great as some other government members try to show it, not you personally. In that sense my discussion was directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47334	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47335	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you've given me an extraordinary creamworth to start my discussion at least three important topics, why engineers are outside construction firms and some financial institutions, which is the topic of the law I'm going to talk about and what's been ruined lately. First of all, I'm going to talk about loans for infrastructure, and I'm going to need to support anyone well-intentioned, anyone who understands themselves in economic development and growth. I can only repeat once again that the only legitimate borrowing of any country is the borrowing to build infrastructure. However, this principle agreement must mean what you have called fissibility by study or what I would say that we MPs must have information on at least the principle effects that will be achieved for the loan, and I am talking about one guarantee of the European Investment Bank's loan for a bypass around Belgrade, which will be worth 40m euros and for which the state will unconditionally guarantee. When I say we have to have an impact assessment, that means I'm going to repeat the remark I had and when she was running the story a few years ago about the Horgosh-Belgrade highway. We must not lie to ourselves, which is the frequency of a vehicle passing on a car to make investment in that road worthwhile, so that by adopting amendments to the Law on the budgetary system and fiscal responsibility, we truly assume the obligation to our future generations who are fortunate not to pass on the cost to their children but also to the war, but also to profit. It also means that the benefit is greater than the cost. When I say we don't have that data, I'll confirm it with a fact and a story about the price of electricity. For example, we all agree that electricity doesn't have an economic price, but the state can't let stories go on, we should let that price be marketable, because it's losing electricity, it's growing, it's getting some exporters like Sartide, and as serious people, we don't get into an analysis of electricity costs. Translated to ordinary life, as a woman, when I'm going to buy something, I'm not going into an exclusive boutique where I'm going to pay a rent and a bribe to get a place in an exclusive location or a perfume from a hot shop girl wearing a mini skirt, I'm going to be interested in the product, its quality, and I'm going to buy it at a cheaper price. I'm going to go buy it for a weekend with a 10% discount or wait for a seasonal discount, because I have to take care of the budget, not because I'm holding someone's bill, I have to account for myself in terms of stretching out how long your yorgan is, I'd say our people. Do we, as a state, have such an analysis that is reliable to those who will deliver it to you, as ministers, that other line of professionals working for example at the Ministry of Energy and that with the analysis that you deliver to us, as a whole, agree that the price of electricity is exactly that and that we have to make a social map and that citizens who don't have the money to pay it can pay it. We cannot only agree in principle that we should build infrastructure, because you, Mr. Mrkonjic, know, as I did, that the state of Serbia was built by the Alpina in 2000-2001 until recently, that it was a small quarry, Alas International, led by Dad and Son Kurt Asamer and not to mention further. This is not my secret knowledge, these are the people I've negotiated with about the Beocinski cement factory as a minister who, you know, at the time of the sanctions negotiated for 50 million marks, then, a higher price for that Beocina cement factory than it was later sold after the sanctions were lifted. So, we created these and these big companies with the money of these taxpayers, and we, and the credits that have accumulated here and left us as a burden, and some are now big firms and in tenders, because they have mechanization, have connections in all these major financial institutions. We are now in a situation where we have a 34 billion childcare item in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and we have interest, not capital, interest on 30 billion dinar loans. As much as we stand out for childcare, we pay as much interest without the principal. Will someone from the Public Debt Administration tell us that 30 billion interest has been effected, one third in the period 2002 to 2008, and the other one will be effective and will bring income in ten years. We're doing this project, planning, programming, budgeting through the effect of what you're asking us today to agree on as a guarantee or a task we don't have yet. What used to be, I'm going back to the key thing that you said, a lot of it was destroyed, like companies in privatisation, construction and others, and without plans that would come new ones in their place, and where people who got out of work in these new companies will be employed, we don't have a house, like the Social Accounting Service, which was doing audits and budgets, so Mrs. Minister said today, but the audit started recently, as if history had started since the day before yesterday, and it wasn't true. The SDK has been auditing every account, every state body, but no company claims responsible, and my peers will be able to remember, and some want to forget, that it could not pass into SDK a pay order, payout to workers, if you did not have a payment order and all other tax obligations. You could've been the CEO of the EPS, you could've been the bank manager, the controller on the SDK counter was a god who wouldn't let the law be broken. Today, according to SDK's reputation, some modern EU states are building a giro bank, trying to preserve payment traffic stability, tax system stability, money laundering to prevent and to have it all in one place, as we once had. I'm not conservative in that sense that we should stay with the lamp - fuse and gas, but we can't even say that from the moment some government started working, the world started ever since. All that was good to keep, all the problems of finding money in the payment channels, which was the problem of SDK, could have been solved, not sold out to the state-of-the-art software to the National Savings, not to sell out the business spaces and put in the depreciation of banks, and that we're talking about guarantee today, because we don't have our own development money. And it's not an unrelated story. I'm just coming up with a story on this-- why are we giving out a guarantee today for the loan we already took? Why don't we have people who work, who earn, and then some of the rest to save, so that from that savings deposited in banks, any one of our own, or foreign ones, we can finance infrastructure at the lowest cost? Do you know why we don't have any? Because even today in this agenda, we have a deposit insurance law. You think I'm looking for a language meaning on deposit insurance? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We don't create conditions for people to work, to save, to keep savings as savings, to force it, but only to keep what is already there. You know why? Because it writes in the light of one of these laws – ordered us by the World Bank for credit, I don't know which, for what purposes, in the amount of 300 million in relation to the implementation of the PFDPL3 (PBG) project, this is one of the preconditions. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, as a representative of the Government, I regret that I received the law on deposit insurance, bankruptcy, liquidation of banks, the Insurance Agency, etc., under which the condition is to secure deposits of a national bank, given in several Latin letters, for which I could not find a base in any way, searching, googling and doing everything else. I regret to you as Minister that this guarantee is not our loan agreement, so I don't know what it means to pay my bail on the event of article 10a of CDG or J of the Finance Treaty. Why is this observation established? You attended, as I did, a committee on which one such guarantee was subject, when we had in public a dispute whether to move the Roma under Gazela into the settlements of the container type or of the hard material. If we had one such contract, we wouldn't have come to a dispute, and you're asking us here to get this guarantee into the budget, there's a lot of payable people here, I'm going to call them, which already fell on the burden, and maybe this one, too, I won't argue, but probably, but we don't know under what conditions. Why is that possible? Because we have an interview published before this session in the journal "Economist", where Mr. Jambic, who is the Director of the Deposit Insurance Agency for the time being, it was for the liquidation of banks, gives a statement that dead banks are spending as living, but do not give us guarantees, and spend as living and not hiring people as if they were alive, that the bankruptcy that lasts eight years and that the responsible gentleman claims will last another eight years, would have his own development bank, with his own resources, where the state would keep its deposits from the local self-government of the Republic, not in the white world, under unknown conditions, and not in commercial banks for its own privileges, so we would have cheap resources for infrastructure, which we all agree to build. My dear Mr. Mrkonjic, take this only as a member of the government, and not personally, when it comes to putting your hand in the budget pocket, it comes to the Assembly, but the register from which it is taken, which is not filled, is quickly dried. The effects on investment in infrastructure, do not be like the effects of cutting the rules, so the sleeves say – the guillotine regulations will save the economy of 60 million dinars, and they do not say that this budget has regulations and rules very non-transparent subvention of private enterprises and various projects worth 17 billion and 900 million, after the rebalance of 19.4 billion dinars. We claim by cutting the rules that we are destroying regulations that are not at the level of the law, are available to all and are saving 60 million from it, but by regulations that are not available to all, the rules of the agencies that finance and attract investment, that we don't see all and what should be the subject of cutting the rules, because it implies that everything is regulated by a law that is clear to all, you have spending that is disproportionately larger, 20 billion per regulation, a lower legal project, and here you boast of the effects of 60 million savings. Excuse me, please, if the budget, or the rebalancing, was delivered for the night and a half, which was to be read, these things are visible and these things are inadmissible. In order for you to have credibility, you cannot say, as the Minister said - I inherited this condition and now I cannot answer for it. This isn't a imperial country, it's not a imperial country, governments are being replaced, conditions are being inherited, but they're changing for the better, and nobody can justify me with tiny changes better, where they don't see the essence you said. In this country, the most profitable investment in virtual finance, banking, investment funds, and not in production which is the only basis for sustainable development, is the only creator of the newly created value. Please understand that those who don't hear through us who have the chance to tell you that are numerous. It is not at all important here that we disagree on the political goals and nuances of how anyone looks at the future of their children. This is the essence that everyone must represent, because what we have come to today, that we have a deficit and that we are terribly concerned about foreign exchange borrowing, where the IMF tells us this way – you are very vulnerable, foreign debt in euros, francs, and even Japanese yen, somewhere in the world, was cheap for service and it was with lower interest rates, but when there is a depreciation course, the costs of service go up very quickly, unless that credit is not in the debtor, which also has foreign income. This means – for exporting legal persons only. In this situation, it's tolerable. Citizens who receive wages in dinars feel terrible about this depression. This budget, designed to repay loans as the most important condition of conditions, was projected at 85 dinars for the euro, it is now close to 110. We need to think not until the next election cycle, but if people are serious and analytical, and we were, and we want to be, even if some of us, please consider these analyses and those on whose behalf you come to represent legal projects here, ask them to give you an analysis of the effects that will be acceptable to the citizens of Serbia, because we are all here to work in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47336	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search, applied for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted by the DSS parliamentary groups, Serbia and the SRS. The word is Mr Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47337	I am extremely pleased to finally see one of the ministers who replaces Mrs Dragutinović when it comes to credit duties, especially when it comes to credit obligations that are largely related to large projects, infrastructure projects and that is something that we all are brave to see Mr Mr Mrkonjic here, but I am surprised that among those present, I do not see fellow MPs from the SPS who, which is normal, always, and for example so far, have MPs from the parties of the ruling majority been there when it comes to laws, or when the laws are defended by representatives of their political parties. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, before I begin the story of credit duties, I'd just like to draw your attention to what's undermining all the people who work in construction. Mr. Mrkonjic, the current state and public enterprises owe construction companies around 96m euros and, what has been daunting since the start of the crisis, there are over 30,000 people left in construction, and only this year, six thousand people for construction jobs do not get paid. It is also discouraging that 46 branches are related to construction and that some 300 thousand people work in these branches, so practically their existence is related to construction, and we see that the situation is such that the state either does not want or is unable to help construction firms in any way. It's no wonder the state owes for both water and electricity, and for gas, and for the phone and for the garbage. The question at all is whether or not it will succeed and whether these funds, which are now meant to be rebalanced for paying these obligations, the government's obligation in general, will go away for these purposes. Mr. Mrkonjic, today we are talking about loans related to the construction of the 40m-euro Zemun-Borca Bridge, the loan to confirm the guarantee for the Number Project between the Republic of Serbia and the EIB and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, then the loan to the "Serb Railways" Corridor 10, it is a very important loan for your ministry, which concerns the rehabilitation of the circle along Corridor 10, including the acquisition of a railway maintenance mechanism and the acquisition of about 15 more system electrologouss with a 15-year deadline. I hope this loan will make use of the money so that finally the people who live in Kruševec, who take the train, get to Stalac, will then have to go through Kragujevac, the Kings to return to Kruševac. Mr Mr Mrkonjic, we are also talking about a 40m-euro loan between the Republic of Serbia and the EIB to JP "The Ways of Serbia", concluded on 27 September 2010. The value of this project is 361.180,000 euros, of which Serbian Roads will provide 119,360,000 euros, I just don't know from which funds, because I know that in the meantime, precisely because of their inequitableness, they formed a new company, Corridor 10. With a debt related to RTB Bor for these two days, we are talking about loans of over 500m euros. The other day, we were looking at a loan from commercial banks to cover the budget deficits under commercial conditions worth 250m euros with interest exceeding 6% and with the cost of the loan. The cost of the loan to the Republic of Serbia is about a million euros. Mr Mr Mrkonjic, yesterday and today, we held a budget rebalance debate for 2010 which established a budget deficit of 120 million dinars with a reason that the deficit was agreed on during the fourth revision of the IMF Agreement and that the IMF agreed that the budget deficit with 4.1 would be 4.75%. The other day, Mrs Dragutinovic, visiting the National Service questionnaire, said that the coverage of the country's budget deficit, or the Republic of Serbia, will be executed as follows, from state bonds or records and credit debt emissions, and it is obvious that the state's loan is becoming increasingly difficult because of its rating, credit security and even the country's incompetence and incompetence of this government. For this very reason, we take the loans we take under bad credit conditions or huge interest rates. The record show itself doesn't go the way it's supposed to. I'll mention a few shows in the last two months. On October 21st, only 38.63% of total emissions were sold with interest of 13.2%. It's for a state record show on an annual basis. It's a terriblely bad piece of information for this country because it shows that those buyers don't believe in these papers and that a small number of them respond. Even more drastic is what happens to records that have a shorter maturity of three months. On November 2nd, only 58.2% of the total emissions were purchased with an interest rate of 11.3% and on November 6th 69.3% where the interest was 12%. It's a three-month maturity record. The very height of interest and the reduction of the deadlines for their payment tells us enough, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, that it is people who, when they take these loans, are strictly accounted for and do not see security in the state records. Public debt was also without these loans, according to official data from the finance ministry or the Public Debt Administration, at the end of October was 11.62 billion euros. With this increase in public debt and these debts we now have and with a commercial loan, we come to the fact that public debt is already 12,300,000 euros. What else is there for us? The question is, what about the debt we have to the IMF and the stand-by fund? So far, we have withdrawn one billion and 460m euros. Mrs Dragutinovic has repeatedly tried to convince us that this is not a public debt. However, Mr Bajec, who is otherwise the prime minister's adviser, a participant in negotiations with the International Monetary Fund, made it clear and loud on several occasions that the debt to the 1.46 billion-euro International Monetary Fund is a public debt. Therefore, public debt is already around 13.7 billion euros and we are entering a highly-indebted area. But what's the same problem for you and this government, and for the citizens, is that you don't respect the law that you yourself have proposed here, which is that public debt can be a maximum of 45% of gross social product. However, this all indicates that public debt is already within the limits of the 45% of gross social product, if not more. However, it is not adequate or accompanied through the media, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and it has neither heard nor this government, have pointed to the level of public debt, unfavourable conditions of borrowing and the danger itself, I will remind you that at the beginning of the economic crisis, we warned this authority that it could happen among other things and to withdraw huge foreign funds, precisely because people have less and less confidence in the state. We then proposed to introduce a deposit insurance law where we would suggest that the amount be secured by a deposit of 20,000 euros. However, there was no hearing, even the Secretary of State of Finance, Mr. Slobodan Ilic, then called, the ambassadors of the Democratic Party of Serbia, called us people who defetistly behave in relation to the state of the country. How unrealistic you are and how unrealistic this government is when it comes to the economic crisis that I hope to explain in one logical way, there is also a statement by Mr Djelic that we have talked about here a few times, that is that Serbia is a country that will bypass the economic crisis and that investors will rush into our country. The current state of construction shows that these investors are missing. In doing so, Mr. Mrkonjic, this government finds an excuse for all its bad moves and for this situation in the country, claiming that the global economic crisis is the one that has affected the overall economic environment and the atmosphere that Serbian citizens are facing. The situation in the country is catastrophic. We see this ourselves despite these loans you draw, in addition to the promises the government made for 200,000 jobs, for 1,000-euro free actions, for a high standard of living. We have, instead of 200,000 people who got new jobs over 250,000 people who were jobless, we have the lowest salary in Europe, we have the highest inflation in Europe, the highest unemployment rate, over a million people are unemployed, the unemployment rate is over 20%. We see that yesterday the prime minister and Governor of the National Bank of Šoškic met urgently to find solutions, justifying inflation by increasing food prices, food products, agricultural products, justifying inflation, precisely by having the biggest impact on inflation on the prices of these products and having solutions. When you talked about solutions to this whole situation, you said that the strategy of this particular country is that in the development of agriculture, in the development of infrastructure, energy and telecommunications. With a few words, he'd turn to agriculture. Agriculture is the only economic branch that records surplus compared to when we look at what's being exported and what's being imported. Last year there was about $650 million. However, what discourages us is the situation where agriculture lies in the decline of gross social product in this year, and compared to last year, and the result is that agricultural products collect, and besides, we have shortages of certain agricultural products. What worries us all is that you imported about a billion and 400m euros worth of billion and 400m euros in agricultural products. Among other things, you imported raspberries, 400 tonnes of raspberries, which is a national brand of Serbia, imported from Surinam, Chile and Poland. What can our farmer, our peasant, expect? In doing so, do not even care to protect him, for you have fallen apart in other places, saving where it was most needed to protect that agricultural producer. Because of only 1.3 billion, one million and 300,000 euros, our farmers suffered enormous damage. At 50,000 hectares of crops, the damage is about 50m euros. Let me finish up with Corridor 10. Corridor 10, Mr. Mrkonjic, you promised, you announced that this year you would end 137 kilometers. In three years, you've managed to finish 50 kilometers. That's about an average of 16.6 kilometers on Corridor 10. You are announcing that by the end of 2011 and the beginning of 2012 you will complete Corridor 10 within 360 kilometers. But what's the problem here? Are you responsible, are the builders responsible, because you repeat that they are unprofessional, unable to perform these works, or is the problem in the conflict between the ministries. You have said more than once that there is a conflict within the ministries, that you are involved in the jurisdiction and Minister of Spatial Planning Mr Oliver Dulic, I suppose a man who knows everything, the president of this country, Boris Tadic, because we see him constantly on some traffic stops, tours, watches what is done, or is responsible for Mrs. Verica Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Programme. Mrs Kalanovic said the other day that Corridor 10 would be completed only in 2013. The secretary of state who was at the opening of the customs office in Krusevec said Pojate, Kruševac, Požega, the highway Cačak will be completed by September 2011. We see that there's nothing out of it, they haven't even started the work, and only some Harry Potter can finish those work. To conclude, to you, or to Mr Cvetkovic, who promises and who said the other day that Serbia is the only country in the region that records progress, increase in production, increase in social product, that Serbian citizens expect a better life, I ask the question – are you even looking at national service even Radio-Television, do you watch what citizens say? What conditions do they live in? What are they eating? How are they able to put together, and how do they get rid of the end? Do you see, Mr. Grouchy, their facial expressions? Serbian citizens are desperate. They look and they can't wait to see this incompetent government's back.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47338	19 minutes and 20 seconds of MP time used. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Grouchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47339	To answer to Mr. Radulovic. Let's get that name off Corridor 10. Corridor 10, the highway has 360 km of rough lanes, which is two strips, which is one tape. So there's half a highway and a freeway. So far, you've said it nicely, it's been done and completed half a highway, 50 km, because there was no documentation and expropriation prepared for the rest. We knew that and we never lied, at least I didn't lie. Today we're doing 170 kilometers of highway. You're from Kruševec, you know very well that in one part of there we did what we did that there was no collision, so Srdjan gave me a confession. So we're working a hundred and fifty miles from Besca to Horgos and Kelebia. That should end, let's say that deadline, January 27th. I gave myself and the builders a deadline by the end of the year. Although I don't know what's still in this country in some time frames, so they'll get on me now, but come on. So on January 27th, it will be finished north, without a bridge at Beška which is two years late, and which started working four years ago. A bypass will be made around Novi Sad 12.5 km and these 108 to the border and 23 km to Kelebija. There's a stock from Batajnica to Dobanovci. When I say – it is done, tenders are called, performers are selected and preparatory works are started. It's a last-time loan from four years ago. It's this part we're talking about today. It's sector "B", but not to bother you with sectors, it's 5.5 km from Orlovaca towards the Bubanj stream to the Straževic tunnel, which has been working for three years. There's already three bridges and that's what they're doing. That's what I said a moment ago, 25 kilometers from Dimitrovgrad to Pirot. Today is the second share of 15 km, and the 8.5 km is already open seven or eight months ago. Two weeks ago, a deal was signed for a stock from Levosoy to Neradovac, half of that 15-mile section, which is eight kilometers. This is all done with deadlines that are all before 1 May 2012, so we understand each other. With that, making this north, I said when it would be over. Tenders have been made on samples of banks that gave credits. It is, above all, a World Bank loan and two shares, from Grabovnica to Grdelica 8.5 km, somewhere around 35 million is pre-calculated value of works, and from Vladic's Han to Neradovac 23 km and 115m euros is pre-calculated value. There are prequalifications and qualifications and there are 60 kilometers left for now untendered shares. It is from Proseko to Piroth and through the Grdelička gorge 24 km, which is about 60 km away from the loan of the European Investment Bank signed on 29 November. We will also try to discuss it in this year and end as much as we can, not to hold onto words, in 2012, by the end of 2012. I don't know where it's done in Europe today so many miles? Most of the jobs have been given to our businesses so far, I've already talked about it, but in international tenders you can't influence, it's decided by the tender committees. I finished this segment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47340	I thank you, Mr. Grouchy, for the precise information that deserves our attention and analysis. There's no reason for replication. The exact data is out. The word is from Madam Vice President Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47341	Mr. Novakovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, under these agreements on the ratification of responsibilities, of Serbia's new ghastly duties, which is one of the most indebted countries in not only our region, but as Mr. Dejan Mirovic said through exact data. We are in big trouble, not only because of the way we've been in charge since 2000, but also because of the fact that our economy has been ruined and that generations after us will face the problem of how these debts will pay back. It was at the time of Joseph Broz's Communism and how current. He was simply in charge of the SFRY. Neither has there been any record of this enormous debt, and when we came to the situation that the U.S. with Western forces would commit aggression and that, contrary to the UN Charter of Peace, we would now see these followers, obviously the same policy, but now European fanatics who want to push Serbia into this bristle formation that distributes the country, the EU that steals from us, and tomorrow are in the ranks of the Raska area and Vojvodina. So they continue along the same path and future generations need to know, and this debate today in the Serbian Parliament to teach everyone who knows how difficult debt returns. Our citizens who are personally in charge know this because the average is probably around 900 euros per capita. Today, for a newly-born baby in Serbia, it is 900 euros in debt. We have to stop it and that's why the SRS is against this. All the loans so far, and I'm going to talk a little bit about the EPS taking credit from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is another one in a row, for so-called. Smart numbers, not a project that will bring improvement to neither the EPS nor the citizens of Serbia. I'm going to explain very, very well, very clearly why that's not necessary. Not only have many experts in this area established it here in Serbia, but also at a recently held such gathering in Vienna where there were about 3,000 experts. The EU nations have gathered against which the SRS and I believe every day an increasing percentage of Serbian citizens say, and that is the correct data, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, 72% said they do not have the so-called advantage. smart counters, remote reading measurements of consumption kilowatt-hours of electricity, and only 28% responded with yes. The main argument of those who have given a negative answer is their fear of entering the so-called. possession of privacy. You may not know, Mr. Mrkonjic, that one route across the Vidic Mountains and the famous village of Bajcetina, where only 22 full-aged citizens of Serbia live, is made as a priority direction, but you do not know that in one of the smart buildings, it is called only a few of them in Belgrade, in New Belgrade, where this certain person incriminated bought an 800,000-euro apartment, but is intended to be installed smartly. Besides, the building's called smart. One such exists in Manhattan, several such in some of the EU's capitals. You know that when you are funded by Cane Frog, Miskovic, Beko and other tycoons, there is, you can say, what our people say. Serbian citizens cannot see such an example, the one who publishes ideology, which becomes a major Eurofanatic than Nada Kolundzia, Boris Tadic, Sutanovac and all sorts of people, is even ahead of this Dežer, when he talks to him. You can see how he would immediately deliver the famous General Ratko Mladic. We here have to talk not about such ones, but about examples of ordinary citizens, those living in Surdulica, and in Čačka, and in Ljubovija, in my country in Kragujevac, in all of Serbia who know that the basic deficiency is, and you know it very well as a man from practice, as an engineer, as a builder who passed through Serbia and repairs the infrastructure after the evil NATO bombing, that the biggest problem and the greatest loss from production to the transmission network. The low voltage network in Serbia, Mr. Mrkonjic, was mainly built 40 years ago. It's like that in my neighborhood, and I believe it, and under Mom's Hawk and everywhere, now I don't order who I see, so I remember being associated, but nothing's changed here. You know, big settlements now in the cities that are unplanned because the urbanists did not predict what would happen, the immigration of the population, and especially this torment that hit Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and above all Serbs from the occupied Republika Srpska, were over half a million of them, that they had to come to certain cities across Serbia and flee from their centuries-old hearths. So there's a problem now because that current is extremely bad and there are the biggest losses. However, you must act as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and as a responsible and serious man because the secretary of state from one ministry and the director of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia make very negative statements these days when it comes to citizens of Serbia. What do they say? Why is Serbia's Elektroprivreda in trouble? Because citizens steal electricity. That's not true. There may be losses around 5% there, which are estimates of experts due to the weariness of numbers, but these numbers with this task will not solve, first of all, because many other countries have not done so. Secondly, the project is on a long stick, as is said, as is your entry into the EU's pestilence. By 2020, we'll be changing numbers. The basic question is, Mr. Grouchy, who's going to get a job for this assignment? Certainly no Serbian firm will, as five tenders have already failed due to complaints from domestic producers. Recently, domestic producers in Serbia gathered and complained to this Bulgarian and Serbian Chamber of Commerce and what they said – let us at least 20% of Serbia's Elektroprivreda that we produce the numbers, because, you know, it doesn't make sense. We produce domestic numbers, we export them to countries of the region, and we need to import 200,000 new numbers, so who knows, up to two million or two million and 300 million, how many consumers are registered in Serbia, I mean the population sector, and that's what the French "Saž" produces. Where's the logic, where's the justice, where's the place for the Serbian economy? She's nowhere to be found. You know why? That's why this contract is very inappropriate and very harmful, because the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, when it gave the first such credit for these so-called smart numbers, conditioned, and through its French advisor, so it was clear that the French "Sazem" would get the job, that the company that can compete to get this job has three times the total amount of credit. If this is now 40m euros, then some firm in Serbia should have 120m euros in turnover in the last year to get this job. Our companies that manufacture counted everything to gather, to create a consortium, to create a cluster, and all the electronics to include, they can't do that, you understand. There may be four other such companies in the world that can comply with these European Bank rules for Reconstruction and Development. Why, Mr. Mrkonjic, your coalition partners, Tadic and others, these ten million, who offer to a Serbian traitor, and you see that this one will and without money, have so far won who knows how many million euros to deliver the head of the famous Serbian general Ratko Mladic, why did you not give those ten million euros in infrastructure, first for the King, and then say - let's fix that loss from the power lines, or from production to distribution, to the common consumer. As Serbian citizens, pay attention to this, please, Serbian citizens, look at your electricity bills. What are you going to see there? You'll see that you're paying for the so-called hired power. What's the hired force? What is spent from production to distribution. After all, Mr. Mrkonjic, we have so far not as the National Assembly resolved the Hamovic and Lazarevic case. When did the Serbia Elektroprivreda begin? Not now since you Milutin Mrkonjic and your party colleague, as you like to say – the minister, but since Hamovic and Lazarevic stole the Elektroprivreda of Serbia by several hundred million euros. We were through this unfortunate man, who was with us in the party, who, along with this other tycoon mercenary, had a survey committee to determine under what circumstances Hamovic and Lazarevic robbed Elektroprivreda for about 400m euros. That report never arrived in front of the Assembly. Why? Because they were already preparing to bring direct damage, that is, to attempt the murder of our president, Dr. Seselj, in The Hague, and to carry out a coup in the SRS that failed. Fortunately for Serbia's citizens, we're still here. We have been here for 20 years, with the same ideology, with the protection of national interests, the economy of Serbia. As we raised our voice against the sale of Telecom, which most yesterday did not want to put into the agenda, although Mr Mirovic suggested it in front of the SRS, so we strongly oppose every intention, beware, this is the last warning, to anyone who makes such statements that he will have a direct political deal with us, which is obviously the only one protecting the interests of the robbed citizens of Serbia, if anyone thinks of selling "Electroprivred Serbia". To finish with what I was reminded earlier by a distinguished colleague, Verica Radeta, who, as I listened to this morning, heard a statement from the Ministry of State Secretary, who said - Serbian citizens should be happy because it is in their favor, is that right, which will keep electricity up by 60% in the next period. Is it normal for someone to say something like that? Please, in 2013, if you plan to increase the electricity price by 60%, then let the citizens of Serbia have salaries such as salaries in the famous EU. Citizens are getting poorer and they can't even pay this price of electricity, which you say is the lowest. I'm going to finish this exposure to data that's absolutely accurate. The flag of cars, a factory that has been completely destroyed, because we no longer have the Zastava program, you have defined yourself for the conclusion of the charge and for this futuristic factory, there is no known model, nor when, it was all Tadic's and Dinkic's promises in 2008 to win the election, Stevanović Veroljub and those in Kragujevac and all Serbia. "The flag of cars," check it out, and here I'm absolutely right, Mr. Mrkonjic, at this point owes 1,818pt of electricity, here's what I'm going to convert it to, at 8.5,000 euros. The Energy Flag owes 4.5m euros for electricity so far. RTB Bor, the largest debtor in Serbia, besides the Railways, which you have talked about, 100m euros. When did this debt begin? Since 2008, and Mr. Rankic and Serbian radicals managed to stop the robbery and attempt to privatise "Bora". All the consequences of such a catastrophic DoS rule and the freak policies of the Brussels administration and the EU are being paid, and we are paying for these and these duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47342	Five minutes and 50 seconds. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47343	Unlike all predecessors, Mr. Minister, I would like to commend you. You are here to courageously defend these bill proposals concerning the additional borrowing of our state, and as part of the practice we had in parliament so far, that always the MPs from the party from which the minister comes participate in the debate, thus defending his minister. We see that's not the case today. I assume the MPs from your party are at some party, and since you don't get invitations to the celebrations, you've decided to work here and defend these laws and that's what I commend. When you replicated my colleague from the DSS, Mr Radulovic, you listed what will be done in the next period and what is done. Believe me, I got the impression that the freeway is about to run off somewhere and go left to Albuquerque, so it's like in a cartoon "Breathing Bug." A lot has started and a lot is announced, and indeed, the government has nothing to boast about, or even in this area that you cover. Then today, we had a debate on the budget, that is, budget rebalancing, and only today, and that is important for the citizens to hear, we further owe this country 475 million. Last week, to complete the budget deficit, by 31 December of this year, the ruling majority today voted an additional 270m-euro debt. Look, in just one day, we're talking about a 750m-euro figure. So, of course, these laws, especially when it comes to railways, concern your portfolio, but it would really be good if Mrs Dragutinovic were here, but she didn't have the courage to stay and further in this debate, because this is primarily about one topic – as long as this country can endure. As far as I can tell, what's the upper limit to which we can be in debt? According to many economists, we have already crossed that line. We have contradictory information from the economic part of our government, have we crossed the line and entered the high-indebted area or not? It even manipulates the figures, or amounts that we are in charge of. One says the governor of the National Bank, the other says the finance minister, the third says the economy minister, and certainly the biggest manipulation when we convert it into percentages of the gross social product. It is precisely the state of our dinar and the overstatement of the dinars and this methodology that allows one casual approach to the government when it announces to the public and to us here in parliament whether we are too highly in charge of the country or not, but it is quite obvious that such a rate of borrowing will be an ad act, because at no time even this methodology, not even this concealment of the truth that has been constantly carried out these two and a half years will be able to work anymore and it will clearly prove that we are a highly overindebted country. And that's what worries me very much, I'm not happy about that fact, but a government that promised everything and everything and 200,000 jobs, and an increase in standards and higher pensions and higher wages, investments. So, in one word, well-being. The legislation of this government will be that you have brought the country into budgetary slavery and that is already quite clear. We'll see the draft budget he'll just confirm what I just said. I repeat, I'm not happy about this fact, but, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, it's the result of your work, the country you've brought into debt crisis, and in some new government where I hope you won't be, it'll be a painful job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47344	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The time foreseen for the DSS discussion has been used. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the Serbian government has educated a negotiating team to determine credit for financing and building the Zemun-Borch bridge. In that composition, Mladjan Dinkic, as head of the negotiating team, Milutin Mrkonjic, Verica Kalanovic, Diana Dragutinovic, Dragan Djilas, Jelena Nikolic, Svetlana Bajic and others who are unknown to the public. The task of the negotiating team is that the company shall, as soon as possible, initiate the negotiations, draw up an appropriate bilateral document, define all issues related to the future agreement with the Chinese Export-Import Bank and coordinate the procedures of the technical aspect of the implementation of this project. Right? Now, that means that for this bill today, which is on the agenda because you're defending it, these people I've read are responsible. Let's take some order, a bridge across the Danube that would link Zemun and Borch, was envisaged by a general urban plan, in the context of a North Tangent traffic station, for the traffic direction of North Tangente in 2007, a general project was done with a previous study of justification and all necessary follow-up studies. So it's 2007. We have the opposite view of the mayor of Belgrade who says, and he is also authorised to represent the interests of the city in the negotiating team that I have listed here, that the project appeared in a strange and certain way suddenly, because in recent negotiations between the government of Serbia and China, the debts of our country towards China have been resolved, which has opened up the possibility that Serbia from China is relocated to non-commercial loans, for the realisation of new projects. If we take what happened in 2007, as surprised as I gave the mayor, you'll see that he wasn't very much on this contract. In Article 2 relating to the terms and conditions of the use of credit funds, point 5 says – goods, technologies and services supplied from credit funds will be purchased mainly from China in accordance with commercial conditions. So it's obvious now that there are questions that are not clear. First, we didn't know that in 2007 the Chinese will later forgive Serbia for all the debt it has towards them. Did the mayor participate in writing this contract and even know what was foreseen in the general urban plan in 2007. He continues to say that this gives us a new space to expand the development of the city of a new residential district, schools, parks, kindergartens, etc. I guess he's aware of the fact that it's cheaper to build than to repair the existing situation, so he wanted to open up the possibility of a third Belgrade, not counting on having a better chance of getting rid of it, i.e. getting the Sava amphitheater and downtown Belgrade in the palm of his hand and building everything he wanted in third Belgrade. However, there is a very different background. He says the almighty mayor of Belgrade expects these works to be re-sumed over the next few months and that the deadlines agreed still eventually begin to be respected. "Unless my position is respected, no matter what kind of paper we signed with, then we'll go to the alterations of that contract and see if anyone else builds that bridge. They are not the only company that can do this project in quality and according to agreement," said the angry mayor of Belgrade, who you have given support to, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, without knowing the whole background of this contract and not knowing the basic principles and power of the Chinese Republic or the state, however you will, which is economically, which is diplomatic, which is military. I would remind you that the Chinese investment in Serbia is enough to make the euro worth half as much as the existing situation and that Chinese investments everywhere in the countries of the region keep the euro alive. After all, a cornerstone for the Zemun-Borca Bridge was then named the "Friendships of China and Serbia" bridge, which was attended by no one else, which was opened by the president of Serbia. Since it's about the same faces and from the same party, it tells us that the mayor himself is not much of a direction to resolve that contract. Let's say that the bridge will bring about a decommissioning of transit traffic through downtown Belgrade to the Pančeva Bridge and that transit traffic will build a burden on the other side of Zemun. In the next period, we will see how this will affect the lives and work of people in Zemun, since Emperor Dušana Street is too narrow and dense, there are eight traffic lights and there is no capacity to withstand any direction, not towards the elbow of the New Sad road where there should be an extension to this bridge. What is important to me, and that is to remind you, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, is that it is necessary to rebuild a bridge in Serbia that is already in very poor condition and that have a dangerous bridge status. So, I'll remind you of Ivan's stream, the Razanj bridge, through the accumulation of Gruža, the road-rail in Svilajnc, in Ćupria via Morava. You know we still have elegant, thin and sensitive concrete-stricken structures that, of course, have been lost and damaged by the tooth of time, which is due to poor winter service, which is made of salt and other chemicals. Also, they are shallowly based in a defined shaft drilling system, with no computer control and an appropriate piece of technical embossed. After a short period of exploitation, such bridges had to be removed, and due to lack of money they remained permanent and traffic was still taking place through them. Why loans like this, the question arises, are not used to preserve existing infrastructure when we do not already have enough funding, according to the budget rebalancing, although seeing this rebalancing of how much the Belgrade City Construction Directorate has received, it is clear that there are more funds. In EU countries or countries of Europe, to be more precise, the annual investment value of bridges is invested in the regular maintenance of bridges. Developed countries do not allow themselves that luxury and that their bridges are in the category of dangerous ones, because in that case, half of the money needed to build a new bridge should be invested for their recovery. If even these standards were applied, maintaining these bridges would cost 50m euros annually, or about 5 billion dinars, and certainly the JP Ways of Serbia does not. First, some things are being considered before the bridge is built, and that is maintenance. Funding maintenance is one of them. It is known in the world that the bridges of the cut-off angle, the bridge from Brankova, are more efficient, i.e. more economical and within 100 to 200 metres range. Since there's a larger range here, it's probably not this real project choice. Second, poor loadability and a large number of pillars bear themselves more than is useful in breaking the breadth of the river into smaller ranges. Thirdly, and probably the number of pillars is too large in terms of price optimization and, fourthly, in China, other companies have made dozens of excellent bridges of each type, and above all cable and never used this type of construction for these shores. Fifth, and it's clear, who knows the terrain is seen behind this attached image that we have and has nothing to do with reality and anyone who can see through the computer, i.e. that channels are much narrower, i.e. that Ada is much closer to the Banatian side than the other side. I will also remind you, Mr. Minister, that what you said earlier is that a highway from Belgrade via Cačka to Bar is needed, that these are works on a stake from Belgrade to Ub, and as part of the railway infrastructure, they are the main project to build Prokop in Belgrade. The end of the railway from Valjev to Loznica, to build a Belgrade subway that has no project and I won't talk, and then we all come to one conclusion, that there will be a nice bridge like that on Adi, with weights that are three times more expensive than a simple linear bridge, and it complains that we don't have money, because we all know that another bridge is a minimum minimum in the city of Belgrade, and then it would be better to make three ordinary maybe less aesthetically beautiful bridges for that money, but more functional than this one that should represent a symbol of the city. I will also remind you that this bridge on Adi started with a value sum of 150 million and 90 for the bridge and 60 for the traffic, at the end of 2006, when the sum was planned, and that today it reached a debt of as much as 300 million, means 150 million more. What will happen to this Chinese bridge remains only in the next period to see. I'd just like to take a look at the Chinese government's loan. He is proof of the incompetence and unprofessionalness of the Serbian government, more specifically the negotiating team. The credit that the Chinese are willing to grant us is favourable, but we must thank the Chinese people more and their goodwill, whose government apparently wanted to help Serbia and the city of Belgrade build a bridge across the Danube. The fact is that the government of the Chinese and Chinese Export Bank and their experts has instructed our government to conclude this agreement and the loan agreement. These are the basic instructions that the loan should be $217.4m, for a grace period that should be three years old, with a 3% interest and a 216-month repayment deadline. So it's an extremely favourable loan, because the interest is less than inflation in the EU and the US, and the capital is in the currency, i.e. in a dollar that, due to economic measures, the United States will lose value over the next few years. However, the experts of the Chinese bank are a loan contract that we in the Assembly today need to adopt and who we are discussing, or amen, to cover some safeguards that only a crazy man can accept, which this credit can turn into a loan of death. What's this about? First of all, I mean Article 3 of Section 7 that says that any change in government policy in the lender's country, so in China, which prevents the borrower from carrying out obligations can make us have to pay a full amount of credit within 15 days with the corresponding interest and other costs. Look at what he says about changing state policy. The other day, North Korea and a Chinese ally bombed a South Korean island to defend their territories. China could, the odds may be small, but not impossible, that in a future dispute, as it has done for 50 years, it may intervene and protect North Korea from Americans or NATO pacts. When we take today's relations with Americans or wishes and the will of this pro-Western government to enter the NATO Pact, we will be put on the list of Chinese enemies and non-alignants, which is why we can experience the financial fiasco, to return the full credit we took without having any other obligation, but to participate in the arbitration process of the court under China's law, not ours. In order not to owe for my time now and for my colleagues, it should finally be said that this Chinese loan contract is much more favourable than what we take from the Canadians for investment in Bor. I'm not sure anyone's corrupt in China, but I'm sure of it, because the contract was made that way, while the text of the contract with the Canadian Export Encouraging Agency felt a mile away that it smelled like corruption. In order not to commit myself to Bora, I must remind you, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, that the goal of this bridge should be justified on the list of priorities of previous problems, that existing infrastructures are maintained and that internal problems are solved, that conditions are created for any kind of loan, not this kind of loan, which we will have to spend money on producing the same, and then to justify that this is the cause of the employment of our businesses and workers. I think this contract should be carefully considered and written down a better version and then presented to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47346	Used 12 minutes and 45 seconds of Parliament time. The word has an MP, Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that Serbia is becoming more and more a land of wonder and absurdity, because while some insist on stopping the country from falling into debt crisis, on the other hand we witness that every twenty days we have this package of new borrowings. When it comes to the draft law on the confirmation of the EPS Guarantee Treaty, the 40m-euro loan agreement between the EBRD and the EPS was signed by EPS Director-General and the European Bank for Development for Serbia's Hildegard Gacek in early September of this year, as well as the introduction of remote reading numbers for spent electricity in Serbia. The funds from the loan will be used to buy, purchase and install about 250 thousand so-called. smart numbers, which are believed to contribute to the reduction of electricity loss in the EPS network, to affect the increase in the rate of billing and to reduce the theft of electricity. I'd be underprivileged if I ignored the fact that it's common in the world, at least in the modern one, that, about every fourth decade, electricity networks change, not just because of weariness and new technical solutions and achievements. However, when it comes to Serbia, it seems to me that a much bigger problem is that one true real strategy for the development of Serbia's electricity system is persistently or continuously starting and lagging behind with the beginning of its realisation, and such a strategy should not mean one set of unrealistic energy desires, but one quite different and essential approach to this whole problem. This, among other things, should lead to the exit of JP EPS from long-term losses and agony in which it is located and moving towards a profitable, competitive and promising company that ultimately pursues a regional leadership. However, much greater radical changes are needed in both financial and operational terms, as what has long been warned is that the biggest problem is the fact that the state-party way of managing EPS and other JPs, of course, is not in practice or can bring about anything good. Otherwise, if these changes do not occur, it is clear that there is a scenario that we have been facing and when it comes to some other companies, which leads to one definitive collapse and the company and the compensation of losses by the partial sale of its parts, and it is clear where this is going. It's just a question of who can it really be a goal? Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this expectation that only a higher price could be solved is truly illusory, and this is ultimately shown in many examples in Europe. What the practice has shown is that just restructure is actually a key role or a key factor on the way to a successful market participation, because when the process begins it does not practically end because it is constantly working on these organisational adjustments, on a larger profit. It's just a question of who will decide everything in this process in the future? Because, in the end, there is also a possible phenomenon of a strategic partner, a change in ownership structure, etc., which should all have an EPS as one profitable and competitive enterprise as a final epilogue. Why are EPS competitors in Southeast Europe now not electricity companies of neighbouring countries, but other powerful companies, although even once CES, which was both structurally and by many other performances worse than EPS, is now actually an unattainable competitor for the public company EPS? However, what is a serious problem, which I would like to draw attention to even at this time, is the fact that obviously this way of leading economic policy, or, to put it this way, credit fever, continues to continue despite all attempts to point out all this destruction. I will only repeat that the external debt of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of how anyone interpreted it or on the basis of which the parameters carried out any conclusions on whether or not we are, or to what extent we are overindebted, is practically three times larger than in 2000 and amounts to almost $45,000 per capita. Now a public debt of about $10 billion may not be a major burden for a country that has developed the export sector of the economy, however, unfortunately with Serbia that is not the case and it is clear how much burden it is. This debt, of course, was also influenced by the borrowing of the private sector, but also by what it is, above all, a state problem, which is the public sector which, in particular, began to be in debt in 2010 and, I would say, is already beyond any measure. That there is no reason for optimism in this respect is certainly the fact that this trend of borrowing will obviously continue, because I will remind only of the Russian loan, then the amount of the second and third tranches of the contract with the IMF, the latest borrowings with Turkey, China, etc. All this leads to what many economists warn about, which is that the debt will exceed about 80% of GDP and thus practically be placed in the ranks of high-indebted ones. What we think is the most rational thing to do at the moment, regardless of any populist announcements by the Serbian Government that there will be no collection of energy, or electricity and natural gas, then added oil derivatives, so it has been discreetly announced that nothing will happen in the first trimester of the following year, the problem is that, in essence, all those responsible and who might in some way be able to influence simply do not want to do much, and the essence of the problem is, above all, in this perverse and nasual policy of price and energy, which is causing this whole series of irregularities. After all, long-term consequences not only for companies, i.e. energy companies, but also for the economy and for the population and for the state. Of course, the state must take care of the social status of citizens, but obviously it is necessary to do it in a very different way, because even if we just stay warm, the fact that the heat can't pay gas or lube, because the heating prices don't "cover" or the supply of energy, we know and only, we're witnessing what's going on, and that's that 30% of the population of Serbia who are heating up from the heat immediately pays that low price of heat that comes from taxes later, contributions, which all citizens are paying. According to some logic, these centralised heating systems are both the most comfortable and simplest for citizens and of course should be the cheapest, which is obviously not the only example in the capital, in Belgrade, where the heating price is extremely high. Another aspect of course should not be ignored when it comes to the energy policy under way, which is that companies dealing primarily with energy production are mostly public state-owned enterprises, while heats are placed in the order of communals. Of course, the government in them puts management in boards, choosing people who listen to it, obeying orders. Of course, it's a matter of party personnel above all else. It is clear why the entire system is in a situation where it is located. So despite all our appeals and efforts to stop one of these, I repeat again, the devastating economic policy that is being led, we in the SRS simply can't and we don't want to support projects that drive citizens into that red zone of life existence.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47348	Nine minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Just to let you know that the remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is 30 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today contracts on new responsibilities, both the city of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia. A lot of arguments have already been made why these duties, new duties and such contracts should not be accepted. I'm going to try to look at this matter from another direction and above all to point out that we don't need to take any more loans, because this government for the past 10 years has shown that it's completely incompetent, even what it signed, those contracts she signed 10 years ago is completely incapable of withdrawing those funds, of spending them, or of building what these loans are intended for. There has been a lot of talk about whether we are an overindebted country or not, whether Belgrade is an overindebted city or not. Of course, when we get answers from those who make up the ruling majority, they say we still haven't reached that 15% of the year's budget at year level, or capital projects can make it up to 50%, but only three to four next year. One of the first loan contracts, signed by the new revolutionary DOS government, was on July 27th 2001 and is credited with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the total amount of 60m euros. It's been almost 10 years since then, and believe it or not, we haven't pulled all that funding yet. Of course, since it was intended to do so by 2004, we first requested a re-purpose of funds, and then on September 15, 2004, the first annex was signed on the contract and was extended until 31 December 2005, the withdrawal deadline. However, out of the 60m euros available to us by 31 December 2005, only 24m and 1 euro were withdrawn, i.e. about one third of the appropriations were withdrawn in five years. So when the government speaks, the DOS government that's been there for 10 years, when you tell citizens that you don't have money for this, you don't have money for infrastructure, for changing tram tracks, for editing streets and traffic in Belgrade, it's just not true. Now on 4 January 2006, the new annex was signed with the European Bank and then you received 31 December 2007 as the deadline for withdrawing the rest of the money of almost 40m euros. Of course, incompetent as this power of yours has failed either, but by the end of 2007, you've withdrawn, so for another two years, you've withdrawn only 10 million euros, which was 34. To look for the annex for the third time and sign it, sign the extension of the withdrawal deadline until 31 December 2009, of course, incompetent as it is, and then failed to withdraw all the funds, and went to the fourth contract annex, which set the extension of the deadline for withdrawal of the tranche until 31 March 2010. You, believe it or not, have failed to withdraw all resources this time, and I assume that the request is already being made, the signing of a new annex that will allow you, I suppose, by 2012. It may not be such a problem, but what the citizens don't know is that you pay interest on these loans, and regardless of the grace period, you pay interest on the withdrawn part, but you pay interest, which is incomparably up and on the unpunished part. For example, for those 40m euros, you paid interest of half a year for seven years, so you paid 3.5m euros on an unincreasing part of the loan. When you say how much the loans cost us, what you keep quiet to the citizens of Serbia, that is your incompetence and that is the fact, and this is the official document of the City Assembly that we have paid an interest of 7m euros on behalf of this so far, and that in July 2010, another payment of interest, not the principal, came from 800,000 euros. It was similar with other contracts, and in 2006, since 2004, you started building, i.e. working on a project to build a bridge through the Sava bridge, i.e. the Kukarica Bridge – Novi Belgrade, the first thing you did, you signed with the company "Pontim" from Maribor contract to 887,500 euros for the construction of an idea project, and then you signed the next contract for the manager of the project for monitoring with the consulting house "Louis Berger" from America and the "Eurogard Group" from Novi Sad at the amount of 6,489,700 euros, and then in April 2008, you concluded a contract between the Directorate for City Building Land and the Port Technoba consortium, etc., based in Ljubljana, not the Austrian firm, but some of their branch, for the construction of the bridge for the moment of 118 euros. Then you convinced us, even though the SRS criticised it, that these were final costs and that this amount would not work. And then we warned that you still didn't have an idea project for access cars, and when the Gazela Bridge was built, access stations were twice as expensive, they were twice as hard to build, and it took twice as much time. Today we're witnessing a rise above Sava some kind of phantom bridge. Ten times so far in the City Assembly, we have asked to discuss it and ask the question – how will this bridge be used when there is no idea project on access traffic? Do you plan to fire from a cannon or a slingshot onto that bridge, then jump with a parachute? What is certain is that the project is incomparably more expensive than the 118m euros you initially claimed. Those 118m euros in May 2010, again official documents, a decision to amend and supplement the decision on the Belgrade city's task to realise the bridge-building project via Sava Kukarica-Novi Belgrade. At that point, it is no longer 118 million and you say here – Article 2 is changed and it reads: "The total value of this project has been determined at 182 million euros." And that's when we claimed that this wasn't all, because there were access stations again. We were right then, but as evidence, new borrowing came from October 2010. He says again – a decision on Belgrade city's debt to finance the construction of access roads within the Sava bridge project and access roads B. This time you are taking a new loan from the European Investment Bank of 90m euros. The deadline for the loan is 31 December 2014. The tranche cannot be less than 5m euros. Grace's period will be five years, and the maximum payment deadline for each tranche will be 25 years. When all this is calculated, we come to the simple conclusion that today you are borrowing the city of Belgrade for the next 34 years, i.e. until 31 December 2044. What is particularly controversial is that here we now have a slightly different review given by the European Investment Bank, and they tell us at point 2, that the estimated total cost of the project is estimated at 404 million euros, 118, 180, and now 404 million, but it is important to note that this is 404 million at no accompanying costs, no consultants, no interest, both on the withdrawn, so on the outstanding tranche of credit. What is particularly controversial is what is on the front of this contract, which says that this document is a draft and only a working document, that it has not been reviewed by certain bank services and therefore all the provisions and members contained in it can be significantly revised and changed without obligation per bank. In other words, a contract is signed where the person who gives you the loan is open to you saying that they can be significantly edited and revised by all members of the contract and you don't really know what it is that you sign. There have been many attempts by the public to say that the city of Belgrade is not an overindebted city. Today I brought the papers on which the city of Belgrade's mandate was reviewed. It's just a few of the biggest contracts and it's something that dates back to 2044. Is it moral that this or any other government owes the next 34 generations? Your answer is that you haven't gone 15% for each of the following years, but if you get to that 15% for the next 34 years, that means you'll spend the next five budgets of the city of Belgrade, but then it won't be for regular commitments, let alone some future government takes some kind of credit and does any capital work or borrowing. To show you, I'm going to ask my colleagues to see what the review of the Belgrade city's mandate looks like right now, something similar to the Chinese voter list. I can read to you from year to year now. This is a seven-metre assignment, but it's important to note that there isn't everything in this. This is just one section that has passed through the City Hall and passed the Republic Assembly until many other duties in this document do not exist. There is no responsibility for 83 trolleybuses, there is no responsibility for building facilities in New Belgrade, where the value of public procurement was 576m, and it was launched with 500 dinars in the budget. That's what Mrs Dragutinovic should have explained because she's the one who would have to control what's going on in the country. When these duties are collected, it is 380,526,000 euros. To this should be added this latest loan, loans from the EIB of 90m euros, which means that we come up with a figure of 471m euros, plus interest plus everything else, and should add what you are looking for now, a guarantee and a loan for the Zemun Bridge – Borca, $217.4m. So, when all this is recalculated it is at this point more than 600m euros due to the city of Belgrade for capital investments and it should be said openly that not only does someone wonder what he bought, but that first of all it is necessary to look at what is sacrificed in the process and to think that future generations will return what you are spending today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47350	14 minutes and 40 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47351	Mr. Novakovic, am I the last one in front of the SRS?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47352	If the time remains, Mr Petar Jojic also answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47353	On the occasion of these united agenda points, I would like to begin with one sentence to remind both MPs and citizens that we are now coming into a situation that we should draw one line and see what is below that line as a result of the overall criminalisation of Serbian society from October 5th to today. I wouldn't repeat what I've been saying here for years and I've been trying to prove it, but probably with today, there's one stage that could be called "privitation of profits." So, as of today, you can't privatize profit anymore because it's gone. What's going on tomorrow? As of tomorrow, there's a nationalization of losses. Nationalisation of all those losses that occurred due to the ghastly road in the wrong direction with people who were in power in various aggregate states, that they "stealed," were they not, were they less or more loyal to the EU, did they deliver 16 or 17 people to The Hague tribunal, counting on them to close the topic and the topic is opening – who is next? Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I hope these 15 locomotives won't be acquired through some independent craft shop from Vrnjak spa. I hope not. Speaking of railways, there was a planetary scarecrow in that sphere. You remember, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, in 2001 he came as the director of the railway "Little Railway Lover" – Rosic. He's famous for being president of the Small Railways Association. That's why our rails have been cut down -- there's nowhere else to cut it. Now you have this security guard from Valev, I don't know how much he knows about the railroad. I don't tell you the difference between a guarantee and a debt, because I know that when a public enterprise is unable to settle its obligations on the basis of a loan, then the state as a guarantee enters into its place, the guarantee is activated, and to remind you, once upon a time, in such arrangements, special laws have been passed, so such claims and such obligations have grown into public debt. I remember, in my time, for agriculture, when it came to cooperatives, etc. So we've drawn a line. As long as we're drawing this line, I think I'm obliged to let the public know about the next one. If, for the nine months 2010, this country has gone to 226m euros in "of Shore" companies and this is worth a billion and 100m euros in total over the past three years. Then we are, in any case, a place where there could be a very good privatisation of profits and it would move from this territory to keep the losses in the country and the people. Just to remind you that social transfers have fallen so much that there is no speech on the welfare state, and what would be some real poverty rate between 5% and 10% of us is more than 30%, and whoever needs to cover it, the budget, see for yourself that it's pretty empty, and now I'm going to talk about the financial effects, no matter how these drafts go. Of course, when investment in infrastructure is expected great benefits and is said by the definition that these are the most just investment because they multiply everything. It won't be a case for us, I have to draw attention to it because when that amount of money in a foreign currency comes to us, it's gonna have to be a print, and then it's gonna have to go to the so-called. Sterilization, so it's possible that even those who did nothing earn. We have a problem that the main generator of all our problems is what we call state or government. For free, someone has provided money from abroad for our judiciary and for the judiciary building when there's a debt left, and that debt has burdened the builders so much, and when we complain about the fate of these builders, we have to say that the state has ruined it with its own measures. To remind you of one more thing, there's a so-called. The Vienna Agreement. We hear in the outlines what it contains, but we don't have a chance to see it. They say the government has concluded such an agreement with leading banks abroad that have their branches here. To inform you of 33 banks that have been authorised to work properly on our market, this year 12 reported losses. So, almost 5 billion losses and I'm asking the question how can they exist, because in 2001 it was said that this could no longer happen in Serbia because the bank system was arranged by the superhuman efforts of a minister who had a surplus one year, a second year deficit? He told us about some Irish miracle. When I went to Ireland, I asked them in what respect you are an economic miracle and the Minister of Finance of Ireland told me in 2007 – who could say that, there is no such thing. So, the time of the lie and the fraud is over, now the bills are down and it's paid. Dearly respected citizens, for the first 10 months of this year someone took 88 billion dinars from your pocket, they're bankers. That's how many negative curriculas they make. Just to remind you, respected citizens, since this extremely beautiful government was formed in whose formation they took part, behold, the wonders, the oligarchs you now want to tax, from that day to this day the dinar has lost 50%. When you turn that into a course difference, then I inform the citizens that whoever was saving in the Bank "Intect", "Uncredited Bank", "Uncredited Bank", and that I'm not still sorting out, "Rajfazen", "EFG", "Socied Genal", "Folks Bank", Hypo Adria Bank", none of these banks suffered negative exchange rates, but passed on to their clients, it passed on to its debtors, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the debt of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the total debt to banks every day is growing. What are those banks like? Empty, hollow. Why? Several of them based their credit potential on deposits. Most people with a foreign name operate because they were able to borrow very cheap funds from their headquarters in Western Europe and then possess this market, where they were able to provide loans through real estate and mortgages and where there was the need for citizens, because they watched ads, travel, licking etc. There is a currency obligation to repay credit, and therefore, respected citizens, every day you grow loans, payments that you will not be able to pay, and as things stand, the banking system of Europe is about to break in a few days. It wouldn't be good if it happened with us, because the situation would be far worse than anyone we've ever had. Then in this environment when you ask a question, I don't want to talk about priorities, probably Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is right, etc., but when it is put up as a technical problem how to place these funds, how to use them, it's probably a huge number of surprises, or anything that sounds nice doesn't have to mean that in the end it's going to have any good result. To inform you, respected citizens, Dusan Lalic has finally left the National Bank of Serbia. Now he is the head of a foreign bank representation, and I remind you that Mr. Lalic was very active when he sought out where the money was in Cyprus and according to his statement, I am giving you this as a tip to find out where to find much cheaper money, that the National Bank submitted 436 criminal charges during 2001 and 2002. None of them were taken into consideration, and you know who the investigating judge was in charge of? Dear Democrats, Goran Cavlina. Over 12,154 applications have been filed for business offences and about 1,900 violations applications. Nothing's been solved and he sees a government formed. Formed government. I now have documentation of how many police firms there are in Serbia. It's probably every third. They're the ones who are the most successful, who can't lose at any of the jobs. In such ambience, justified investment procedures, taking care of priorities, possibility of engagement, multiplication etc. It's all falling into the water. Why? Because there's no environment to do that, besides the mob index, the travel mafia, the charging mafia, that garbage mob, it's not open yet, it's waiting for those from Lazarets, just wherever you turn, you have a mob. I can't hear about these smart numbers anymore. I've been hearing about these numbers for 30 years. It was a war between the Iscre and the Electron Industries. 25 years ago. Now we're going to get smart numbers, because we've got smart buildings. You can see they're taking these to buy apartments in smart buildings. They're probably the opposite of quality users of these buildings, so they need smart buildings, when they're not smart tenants, even if the building's smart. It's quite familiar to you, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you don't need to answer me because these are all about finance, not those buildings. Nothing surprises me because I don't trust DOS, I don't trust the European Union, I don't trust the NATO Pact, I don't trust the United States. I'm so rich because I don't believe it, like I didn't believe two months ago when the main ideologist of the Democratic Party phoned someone out of a village who told him everything was fine with the milk. He's attacking us here for saying there's something wrong with the milk. Now he can't answer us after Tadic realized he didn't have any milk. These are the frameworks in which this government moves. Of course, as an opposition party, since we know what can happen, we follow all of this, we can't give blank support for projects like this, because we know that the consequences will be far worse, because when someone tells you – vote for me, I will hire 200,000 people, so forgive me, please, once a man can make a mistake, another time he can make a mistake, a third time he can make a mistake. What do we do next? We have to tell one joke at the end – Americans when they count how they got out of recession and crisis they first watch the traffic of men's underwear. If the men's underwear consumption is growing, then the Americans are on their way out of the crisis. In our country, we say permanent consumption of good vehicles. Monthly declines 20% of the demand for vehicles. Wrong moment, wrong setting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47354	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. There's 40 seconds left. Will it be enough for you, Mr. Jojic? I doubt it, but let's try it. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47355	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, as part of these discussions led towards this item of the agenda that you explain to the MPs, I would only ask if there is any chance that the government is taking steps to improve the transport of citizens of Panchev through Beovoz, so from Panchev to Belgrade, as it seems in other parts of Belgrade. Since the annual million and 200 passengers from Pancheva use the transport of Beovoza and citizens, i.e. The students and the workers of torment are how to solve it. Secondly, if you'll allow me, Mr. Minister, you can see that you're taking it to the government if you can get a child's nursery case, although it's not part of your agenda, in Divchibara. Panchevo has its kindergarten and inspection has closed the kindergarten, and 5,000 users, lung patients, mostly children use it for natural purposes and for treatment, so feel free to take it to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47356	Thank you, too. It's been used 20 seconds longer than allowed time. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47357	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, by voting three draft laws on this confirmation of the guarantee agreement and one proposal for a loan agreement that is now on the agenda, public enterprises, the founder of which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself, and most importantly all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be in charge of an additional 340m euros. Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia have the mandate to second all citizens? I haven't dealt with grace periods, euribors, margins, commissions, which in my opinion are the characteristics of these contracts. I know you're going to try to convince us that these are the most favourable conditions, but I'm going to point out some of the shortcomings in these draft laws. As for the Law on Confirmation of the EPS Guarantee Treaty for the numbering project of 40m euros, I will agree with the fact that 90% of the existing numbers were inaccurate, flexible, electromechanical devices of an average age of about 25 years and therefore their replacement is necessary. However, several questions are raised here. Such a technical solution, i.e. by installing smart numbers, will certainly reduce the losses in the distribution of electricity. How, Mr. Minister, do you think that's how you're going to increase your bill rate, as you stated in the law? This level of charge depends primarily on the standards and quality of life of Serbian citizens, or consumers of electricity, and not on smart numbers to measure spent electricity. Make it possible for Serbian citizens to get jobs, not to lose their jobs on a daily basis. Give them personal income for a decent life, not survival. It is the key to the increased rate of charge and taxes and electricity and all other taxes. I don't know if you've asked yourself if they have anything to pay for spent energy and to increase your rate of charge, regardless of what numbers and criteria spent electricity. By installing smart numbers you plan to reduce operating costs and commercial and technical losses in the distribution of electricity. All those savings, you'll agree, will have its own financial effect. Does this mean that this financial effect will spill through the price of electricity? Does this mean that the price of electricity will be cheaped or will you direct those savings to another unknown side? The EPS will certainly have, but what an improvement RS citizens will have by obtaining these smart numbers of 40m euros. In current practice, subscribers, i.e. electricity users were obliged to purchase and install numbers that subsequently taught EPS for use. Now, will the purchase and installation costs of these smart numbers fall to the burden of those 250,000 natural persons and 7,000 companies, as you planned? We have a reasonable doubt that through complicated bills for spent electricity, which almost no one can decrypt, that you will actually invoice and charge, and thus kidnap 40m euros from citizens of Serbia. If so, why did you take a 12-year loan, if the intention of the EPS is to charge that consumer money through three, six or twelve months of war, or an electricity bill? Two key issues I would like to get a precise answer for because of the citizens of RS. First of all, will the savings generated by the purchase and installation of smart numbers result in the cost of electricity? Secondly, no less significant sweating – will the price of purchasing and installing smart numbers be another burden on the modest budgets of Serbian citizens or not? As for the law confirming the loan contract for Serbia's railway work rehabilitation along Corridor 10, it is known that a 100m-euro debt is only a drop in the sea needed to build the entire Corridor on the 10th total estimated value, i.e. the total estimated value with and the closure of this deal is 4.6 billion euros. This assignment is about 2%. Is Serbia and the strength and capacity to do this job, if it is known that 767km of rail through Serbia is the weakest link of the railway Corridor 10, whose total length is 2528km, and one third of it is the weakest third of the waste on the railways that unfortunately pass on to my great sadness through Serbia? Serbia has made a commitment towards Europe to end the 10 rail corridor in the whole length, from Croatia's border to Belgrade, across Nis to the border with Macedonia, as well as the northern eastern arms with Macedonia, as well as the northern and eastern arms to Sudotica and Dimitrovgrad. At such a pace, I doubt Serbia will meet the obligation. Serbia needs an electrified two-wheel rail equipped for mixed traffic and a speed of 160km per hour. However, the dreary reality of Serbian railways is that half of Corridor 10 is not prepared for high speeds or is not suitable for freight traffic, or is not electrified. Total traffic between Germany and Turkey, as much as 90% goes through Hungary, i.e. Corridor 4, which is several hundred miles longer. In order not to use Corridor 4 when only part of Corridor 10, at least one passing through Serbia, from Belgrade to the border with Croatia's two-way line. The average speed on Serbian railways is 50km per hour, while according to European rail standards it is necessary to raise speed to 160km per hour. When will this happen at this pace, Mr. Minister, in Serbia? What is first seen in this Bill's proposal that you stated in the reasons for confirming the law that 100m euros will be spent on revitalising the railway along the key sections of Corridor 10, about 112km long and the purchase, again, of around 15 multi-system locomotives. By engineering standards, and you and I are Mr. Minister Engineers, there's no definition of the eye. What does it mean to rehabilitate a railroad about 12 kilometers long? Is that 80, 100 or 150 kilometers? I think it took a more precise explanation. At which location will the revitalisation be performed along Corridor 10? Is the reconstruction project done? What's about 15 locomotives, 10 or 20? How much will it cost international consultants to assist in the procurement and realization of this project? Are these international consultants necessary to us, Mr. Minister? You don't even know the location, at least you didn't list it, or the total length of the railroad you're going to revitalize, you don't know the number or type of electrolocomotive, you don't know how much it's going to cost international consultants, but you know that it's going to cost Serbian citizens 100m euros and it's going to hire, the truth works, just propaganda tens of thousands of workers. The aim of this project is to eliminate a number of light drivings through Serbia and the largest allowed returns to the level of proximity to the projected state. Here you have reached for an ominous estimate of approximate speeds and significantly increased reliability. As far as reliability is concerned, I'm afraid that the effect will happen to us like when you multiply zero by any number, the result will always be zero. Due to the shortcomings indicated, the SNS will vote against this bill and additional borrowing of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47358	Nine minutes of Parliament time. MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is that in each agenda we have a few duties and a few guarantees. The borrowing of public enterprises best shows the situation in which the Serbian economy is, best shows that we have exhausted all opportunities when it comes to privatisation, when it comes to borrowing the private sector. We're in a situation where we have nothing more to offer in the privatisation process. For sale, only large capital enterprises such as Telekom were left, everything else sold as sold. What are the effects of these privatisations, you know better than anyone but the fact that it went into liquid production and that a lot of mole went into some capital investments. So today we are in a situation that after ten years of having had these famous changes since 2000, that we still have some elemental capital facilities, as you said, the Corridor 10 highway, are not done that we have to go into debt, that we have to in some way employ generations behind us, because no matter what these projects are and how we need them, no matter what it means to employ part of the workforce, construction operations at this point, the repayment of these debts, these duties will be a stone around the neck of future generations. I'm saying this because if you look at a budget that's also the point of the agenda that's previous, you see that we have a very low economic growth, an economic growth of 1.5%, that I could say funny, that means roughly, there's economists, they can recalculate better, that in 50-60 years we'll be able to double GDP, roughly that means that in 50-60 years we'll be able to secure a 600-euro salary in Serbia, it's a terrible little, it's negligible, it's best to show how bad the economic policy that's been implemented so far and that you continue to implement through these laws that you're proposing. However, purely because of Serbian citizens, it is important to say that today in this agenda we are discussing we have a debt of about 450m euros. If you move that to a four-member family in Serbia, it means that through this item of the agenda, you will only assign them, each family in Serbia, for about 200 euros. If I remind you that in the previous agenda we had that commercial loan to cover the deficits in the budget, that we had 250 million about 50 million guarantees for JAT, that we had, I think, for customs by the Chinese government or a Chinese bank also a 30m-euro loan. That's about 330 million. So, just a week ago, we put the same four-member family in Serbia in charge of about 150 euros. We have so far had a growth in public debt, since this government, since 2008 and here, which has been growing by some 2.7- 2.8m euros daily. But in the last few months, the fact is that guarantees, which direct loans, that public debt is starting to grow by arithmetical progress. Obviously, the goal is that anything in this situation, when everything stops in Serbia, and regardless of the price, is in some way an indicator of the efficiency of this government, but as much as these unfavourable loans can be seen through the fact that in both the world and Serbia today, bankers are doing very well, that they are able to significantly increase their capital thanks to these poor countries, thanks to these incompetent governments that are taking loans without asking for the conditions under which they are being taken. I'd like to say that in the long run, we're certainly going to have trouble with these loans. We'll have trouble getting them back. I have no doubt that we will have short-term effects and will be significant for this moment, but it is obvious that the economic policy with which this government is emerging is not sustainable, that such economic growth, which is primarily based on services, and not on industry, not on the development of agriculture, the processing industry, cannot survive. Without serious exports, there is no way to repay these loans because, as you know, the IMF has limited you to 45% of the public debt compared to GDP. They're also aware that we can't walk through these duties forever. It's more important for them to get back what we've already taken, what we've taken in the past 10 years. That's why they've defined themselves for one such measure. Perhaps it is convenient for me to remind all of you at this point, to remind the public, here I have had the opportunity to hear personally from Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Boris Tadic, that in the coming period we will have to rely on what we ourselves produce. It is obvious that the Government and the President of the Republic do not feel the same way because, in some ways, we are denying the President himself and his view of the perspective of some Serbian economy. Let's go specifically, when it comes to these four loans, or guarantee contracts. I was particularly distracted by the EPS-related one, in the part where for all the ineffectiveness of the energy sector we kind of shift to the citizens of Serbia, the fact that we want to have numbers with remote reading and disabling citizens, and that we completely ignore all the problems that are numerous in terms of energy efficiency today in Serbia. So, also maintaining existing plants and energy service organisations, insufficient investment, outdated technology that we have today in our industries, as well as not using waste energy, alternative sources of energy that we have completely neglected. It is obvious that in my opinion, and I am convinced of almost all SNS MPs, in this area, in the field of energy, there are much more and more serious priorities than borrowing these 40m euros for remote reading numbers. The fact is that we will therefore not significantly improve the efficiency of the energy system, nor will we be able to make a significant charge for all those backlogs because I am convinced that the vast majority of citizens are ready and willing to pay for electricity, but that in such an economic situation, a large number of them do not know what they are going to do before today, with food, which is almost the only thing citizens are trying to pay from their own and such modest profits. In general, what is even more problematic in this agreement, perhaps in my view, is this obligation that you accept by this contract, means that you pass the law by the end of 2010, I don't know if my fellow MPs have noticed it, which will give the Energy Agency more significant powers when it comes to determining tariffs. It's obvious we're going to liberalise the electricity market. We have already had some agreements and agreements at the level of Southeast Europe and the EU as a whole, but a legitimate question is raised here – is this acceptable at the moment, at the moment when the electricity price is a social category, when a good part of foreign investment that has been reduced to negligible 500m euros, and should be significantly higher, comes because Serbia today has cheap energy? We are fully aware of the SRS that such a situation is long-term unsustainable, but the fact is that it is one way to compete with the economy in the environment and thanks to electricity prices we have managed to attract a number of foreign investments. Since the beginning of next year we would have given this agency greater authority, which would have a significant impact on the price of electricity, would have a significant impact on the overall economic situation in Serbia, would have a major impact on inflation because you know that electricity has a significant impact on the price of products that our economy places on inflation. I also find it somewhat immoral at the end of this government's mandate because I think we all agree that we will have extraordinary elections next year, this government decides to increase the price of electricity, indirectly running away from responsibility and transfer responsibility to the Energy Agency. All in all, such a contract is more than unacceptable by the SNS. I believe that it will also be very harmful for all Serbian citizens and that Serbian citizens, Serbia's economy, are not in a situation today to accept an increase in electricity prices, at least more significant, and this solution will certainly mean a more significant increase in electricity prices. When it comes to this guarantee agreement on the Serbian Railways, it is another 100m euros. I really don't know if the Serbian Railway has any chance of returning those loans it's taken so far. Does she make a profit? As far as I know, he's losing, and I'm afraid part of these guarantees are actually going to be loans from the Republic of Serbia that the railroad itself will not be able to bring them back. Fifteen electroloquisms best show what the situation is when it comes to rail infrastructure, it best shows that a good part of our rails is not electrified because you would have some quite other locomotives, in addition, the question is whether these 112 kilometers you intend to reconstruct means what is a great unknown to all MPs, whether it means that we will get less congestion on the railways, whether traffic, whether it will take place faster, whether we will get to some speeds that meet so many EU standards, or whether we will spend money and continue to be under the question that the EU is at stake, whether to invest in Serbia or to look for alternative corridors. Whether this railway infrastructure may bypass us in some future period, because it is obvious that the years behind us are years of non-investment in the railways, and certainly these funds are not enough to revitalise it and to significantly respond to the moment in which we live. These two second loans to the Zemun-Borca Bridge, this bypass around Belgrade, no doubt we need and no doubt, Mr. Minister, that you are right when you say that Belgrade needs four more bridges. What I notice as a seaman, as a Jagodinac, is that a large number of these guarantees, that a large number of these loans go to Belgrade and the surrounding Belgrade. Somehow, I get the impression, and I think you should like the government to come before us, to explain to us how many of them are in these years, and I have some information that we're close to 40 guarantees, which public enterprises, which credits. That a large majority of these loans and guarantees went to Belgrade, possibly Novi Sad, that move by Belgrade -- Novi Sad, that very little is being invested in the interior of Serbia, so, south of the Bubanj stream, little is done if you don't count the highway, I think there is also a need for this highway from Pojat. Why don't you take a loan, that's why there's need, and to end this highway towards Kragujevac, it's done from a piece, I'd say, a few miles clean in some pre-election campaigns, I think it's much more necessary to invest in the interior of Serbia, let's say that possibly this huge difference in regional development is improved by pure demagogy, and the fact that today's economic system, this kind of economic growth based on services, and the place of services and large centres, because there are the smallest costs, so Belgrade, Novi Sad and municipalities between these two centres, don't give us any chance in the interior until this government turns to industry. This industry, this production, is its place in the interior of Serbia, because it is the only way we will have the chance to live from the inside with some life that is similar to the time in which we all live today. I think that, in general, that the SNS will not support these bill proposals in principle, first of all, because with borrowings and such an economic policy, we cannot achieve any improvement for the citizens of Serbia and in the day of voting, as my colleague said just before, unfortunately, we will have to vote against such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47360	I thank you, Mr Anticu. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96? The Minister called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47361	Now in the package, I'm going to answer all the things you've said so far, I'm not going to list people's names so there won't be a replica, except for my friend Jojic, to answer, on December 12th, a new driving order is being adopted. More trains on the Pančevo-Belgrade route will be safely installed in the new driving order than is now. I'll inform the government's authorities tomorrow morning, if not tonight, about the kindergarten of the Divchibari children. Of course it's clear to me that the opposition's criticism should be as it is. What don't I get? It must be basic honesty, but this is for me the highest home of Serbian parliamentaryism, and here we must be truly honest. So far, I've never had a chance to say, I'm sorry that there are few MPs, but I am obliged to tell the citizens of Serbia the truth. The third time I'm undermining it and I'm asking that it's not being manipulated, it's not good for parties that act that way. Today we're working on a 172-mile highway on Corridor 10, and whoever doesn't, sit with me in the car tonight and we'll pass the entire Corridor. So, from Besca to Horgos and Kelebia, 112.5 kilometers. The Beška Bridge itself is 2.5 kilometers long. Around Belgrade, the Dobanovci-Batajnica bypass, the tender completed, the companies got the job, are preparing for realization. That's 10 kilometers, plus Batajnica. From Dimitrovgrad to Piroth, today the second share is opened, 25 kilometers are already being realized, it is being built from Levosoje to the Serbian house 8.5 kilometers or ten kilometers, the tender is being completed, the Greeks are being given, people are preparing to build. So, as far as this data is concerned, it is today the largest construction site in Europe, not to brag, but we know that we have entered Corridor 10 with full force. It was built 50km, half a highway, 20km north, 20km south, no Mr. Riza Halimi, and 10km of bypass around Belgrade. That's right. We are today asking 40 million of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and that money refers to the share between Orlovaca and the Bubanj stream, that's a 12km long share, the first half is 5.5 kilometers, and that's 5.5 kilometers. That's where we've already finished the tender for three bridges, they've got our businesses, I'm deliberately saying it, but don't make me make the job fit the world's banks and why we've been doing it like that and the Stražice tunnel's been doing it for two years. So that's the money that goes directly into production. Most of what I'm saying right now has been given to our companies. Please, there's the Alpina, and she employs 500 of our workers. That's the situation on Corridor 10, and I'm asking for it to be accepted and checked and I'm not talking about it anymore. I'm deliberately saying this because MPs who still manipulate this information don't do it anymore. Please don't do that anymore. Tenders are scheduled for another 40km of highway from Grabovica to Grdelica 8.5km and from Neradovac to Vladicno Han 26km. It's World Bank loans, she's looking for other conditions, we're going for three months, then three months of tenders, and then she's going into realisation. At the moment of prequalification or qualification, we can count the deadlines and say when something will be over. That's when the job starts as an engineer for me. All of this is due in May 2012. Of course, it's gonna happen somewhere and we're past that deadline, but please, if we know how much we're building, I guess there won't be a problem if we miss somewhere. As for the reminders of what the priorities of this government are, I remind you that for the first time, as I remember, and I remember for 40 years, Serbia has its priorities, of course, verified through the National Council and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The National Council is led personally by the President of the State, Mr. Tadic, and that's good, and let the man go and go to the construction sites, don't criticize him, it's support to those people who work there. So, the National Council has identified the priorities that say, number one Corridor 10, travel and rail, the colleague Babic spoke nicely and do not rephrase me if I mention your name, the man spoke nicely of the railway corridor and I will not comment. He said all the prices, only the deadline should be 2017, not 2020, so much. It's about that. The second priority is that so-called. Corridor 11 for which we are only fighting to be a corridor, which is the highway and track from Belgrade to Cačka and Bar and from Belgrade to Vrsac and Temisvar. You saw, it was almost because of this and a complete study of physibilities for the Belgrade railway – Bar and that is what the second priority is. That's where we open up the works on one section, 12.5 km, doing our businesses, just to show the banks that are interested that we're going into the realisation of all the projects. That's good and that's how we should do it. Today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we're negotiating with some foreign companies and we'll see how the work on that corridor will take place. What's most important to me, from the loan we're talking about and it's called a Russian loan, there's a Belgrade railway node, that's my weak spot, it's got to end and the Valjevo-Loznica railroad. That's what we think we're funding from Russian loans. This strategy is what the Serbian government has today and what it will endure at the cost of any criticism, believe that is what Serbia needs and I will no longer talk about it. Unfortunately, there are things we couldn't do, and I won't talk about the numbers because it's not my theme. I've already told you about the bridge credits. In addition to these two bridges, Belgrade needs two more bridges, it is one metro bridge and we need to be sure of that, and it is certainly one bridge that goes up around Vinca and ends up in a round of bypasses around Belgrade, which is very important and not only because of what I was talking about earlier, but also because of the tour of dangerous burdens outside Belgrade. That's what the government of the Republic of Serbia is planning to do. Of course, I remind you once again, let's not tie these investment programmes to one government. In normal countries, more governments do so than is necessary. Let's not, with the change of one government, tear down the entire concept of traffic. That's the essence of what I'm looking for and I ask you MPs who are sitting here in Parliament. Once again, I have learned a lot, despite being so little irritated by the discussions of some comrades who still won't see what they see, and surely the government of the Republic of Serbia will insist that these jobs are done by our businesses. In the end, $950m of jobs opened this year and last year for the realisation of infrastructure projects. Since Mrs Tabakovic, who understands me best on this subject, I must say, our GDP is 35 billion, and I don't know how big a Yorgovanka is, if she is, is looking for two, two, and a half billion investments. If we invest a billion a year in infrastructure, then we stabilised the country's economic development, remember, another billion will probably go to commercial facilities and all MPs in this Parliament should know that. When we talk about these jobs again, I insist and regret that I did not bring a sheet that was just shown here in another context of course, which shows exactly what the number of workers and people working on the project is, now just at the north end of the corridor ten, and how many are serving that corridor ten. Please, what is very important is that not only the highways are built by builders, those people who serve it are also involved in the realization of this project, and they are far more than themselves on the track. The technology of building highways today is that machines themselves finish most of the work, but that's why in preparation in quarrys, in the oil industry, in enterprises, etc., one of the biggest problems, let's say, I'm going to the digression, right around the transport of materials. It's a key point today to complete the entire corridor ten. It's huge, 300,000, and that should get us out of the quarry and we don't have locomotives, 75 locomotives today, and we need ten more locomotives and we need to spread the tender and buy ten more locomotives today. So these are the problems you're talking about through these loans you're talking about. My duty is to worry about it, of course, not yours. I am deeply grateful again for both your understanding and your desire to help. I pray once again that at least some questions, I speak first of all about the national traffic program, create a consensus in this assembly. I'd be proud and I'd resign immediately that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-24-0.u47362	Thank you. You got a round of applause, even though you scolded us, that's it. I am concluding a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for a Credit for a Preferred Customer for the Zemun Bridge Project – Borca with associated traffic, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a Borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a Borca as a lender; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (EPS Project for Numbers) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee (Courtesy of Belgrade/B) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Free Trade between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. This is what we've done today's work. We'll continue the session tomorrow, 25. 11. In 2010, at 10:00 p.m. It's the last Thursday of the month, you rest and restore energy, we have a fine analysis of the rebalancing and serious government interrogation. Thank you.
