ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46135	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is an important law ahead of you. Our culture has numerous examples of donors who have built Serbia in the past years, decades and centuries. Without them, Serbia's culture would not be what it is today. Without them, many of the achievements we as a state today would not be what they are. At present, we are talking more about sponsors and donors, and the important institution of the Mercen is a bit forgotten. Of course, speaking of these categories, we have in mind, in the first place, what and how they do in the domain of achieving their goals, or general goals. The sponsors in the first row are thinking about their goals, about their now, donors about our now, and the mecens, all those who think about one permanent investment in culture are thinking about our tomorrow. This is exactly the area we want to protect, precisely those prominent individuals we want to encourage to have their work preserved for future generations, but, of course, to encourage new individuals to engage in this process. As a result, the Law on Delegations is important, which is why the Law on Delegations and Foundations can and should set a new framework for this area to develop more strongly. When we say – more strongly developed, we primarily think that it should continue to be one of the fundamental foundations for the development of culture, as much as for the development of Serbia. Knowing that in this consciousness we have common reasons to continue to work, I want this law to have its own quality presentation today and that your constructive discussions and suggestions are the basis for its enriching. But what is most important, and I would say, what is essential, it is precisely an incentive that this law in the field of culture, as well as in some other areas, is an important incentive for all those prominent individuals, rich individuals, to return to their country, gender, or give something for future times. If we are talking about borrowings, we can talk about the duties of Serbian medieval rulers who today form the basis of Serbia's cultural heritage and culture. We also have these examples in the 19th and 20th centuries, today in the 21st centuries we have a new law, in line with the new time that should be this important incentive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46136	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Vesna Marjanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr. Minister, the Committee on Culture and Information has mostly adopted this law in principle. After a very serious debate, we have concluded that it is a very important law, not only for the area of culture, which will open up the possibility of more and more direct investment in creation and cultural institutions in the future, but for a very large number of social areas that also need help, investment and a kind of social solidarity. In addition to the legal framework of the new one, which this law provides and which is necessary for modern understanding and definition of duties and foundations, it was very quickly shown and I believe that during today's debate and debate in particular, this law, as a topic, will open the discussion of old Serbian responsibilities, as the minister has already suggested, and that today we respect such a tradition, raises the issue of foreign responsibilities and foundations and their presence in Serbia, raises the issue of more precise regulation and registration of employees and foundations, strengthening the potential of civil society in Serbia, too. But most importantly, that's exactly what you're talking about, and that's the development of need, the development of a culture of good giving. I think that this law actually represents a shift in this regard and should be an incentive for society to just do much more for a culture of good giving, a culture of leaving a mark in society, a culture of social solidarity and, through this law, to bring it to its right place. A very large number of amendments have been filed. I expect the co-operation of the Ministry of Culture in the coming period to be discussed in particular, to be well considered and to believe that we will have an extremely dynamic and serious debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46138	I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, Ms. Marjanovic. I give my word to Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46139	Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on duties and foundations that regulates and adapts this issue to social and political change. For reasons of the bill's proposal, as one of the basic reasons for the issue of employment and the foundation to be regulated by the new law, is the problem of resolving property transformation and enrolment in the Register of Foreign Delegations and Foundations. Obligation in the Serb people has a centuries-old tradition. It is present since the existence of the Serbian state. According to the employee, the Serbian people have special positive emotions. It represents an important heritage of our people who treat them with special respect. That is why he deserves special attention, that it is regulated in the best possible way. The law must provide for two basic conditions, which are the preservation of tradition, preservation and protection of its value. The PUPS believes that what is well regulated by law does not need to be specifically commented, but we want to point out in our opinion some shortcomings in the proposed law and that through the proposed amendments this area is being better regulated. I fully agree with this opening statement presented by the minister when it comes to the role and place of employment and the tradition it has. What we see as unarranged in the proposed law and what should be better regulated concerns the following questions. First, the draft law does not consider the problem of secondment in the KIM area at all. We find it inadmissible and politically correct, regardless of all the problems present at KIM because KIM is the cradle of our employee. In the roughest form, it could be concluded that this law recognises the secession, which is not true, so that even so in KIM, not only there, but also around the world there are Serbian responsibilities, and that is the other problem, which is the legal arrangement of the Serbian task force abroad. In Article 3. The bill sets out the objectives of employment and foundations and they are comprehensive, but I believe that promotion of religious communities and other fluids should also be included in the objectives. Those goals should have been expanded, and I think they can be done. One of the main problems is certainly the role of the founders in the management of work and costs which appear on their property which founded the asset and can lead to a breach of the objectives of the employees or founders of the foundation. The establishment of a fund without funds, with the possibility of obtaining them from the budget, should not, in our opinion, be considered a foundation, but rather a matter of NGOs which, based on the programme, can receive funding from the budget for the realisation of certain objectives. Next, the draft law does not provide for a state body to take care of the development of employment and the protection of the property of founders in the spirit of founding goals. This is particularly important for the responsibilities and foundations whose founders are not alive, the bill leaves this, without any restrictions, to groups of citizens who accept this job, so there is no guarantee that the debtor's amanet will be respected. The founding act gives managers the right to change the objectives set by the debtor when it is defined as devoting its assets to the employee, which may negatively affect potential debtors. In particular, I would like to stress that PUPS has received from the Association of Delegations, Foundations and Funds of Serbia, and I believe that other parliamentary groups have also received a letter expressing dissatisfaction with the draft law on employment and foundations. Regardless of the necessity of change, i.e. that this area is adapted to teaching, socio-political, economic change, they consider that the proposed law does not regulate this area properly. The main problem is that they have been sufficiently consulted in the drafting of this bill, and their reasoned objections and proposals have not been answered by the promoter. Part of the remarks raised by the Association of Delegations, Foundations and Funds of Serbia coincided with the positions of the PUPS that I have made and I find important to point out that they insist on the higher role of the state and that the Ministry of Culture could not be the only institution in charge of employment and foundations, because employment and foundations are not founded solely for the field of culture. In addition to culture, employment and foundations are established in the domain of health, education, social ageing, science, religion, armies, etc. The next significant remark that should be considered concerns the question of the liability of the task that corresponds to its assets for work gaps. They believe that the debt must not fall into a mortgage or be fined for some offence, but that responsibility must be borne by the persons who created such a situation. They also believe that the board of directors has great powers to eliminate the founder, and he said by means of his act what must be respected after the death of the debtors. In the draft law, the founder cannot manage the task, even when he is alive, Article 36, but management is done by a person or a group of citizens, and it is not known who sets up those persons, so it can be concluded that the fate of the task or foundation is put into the hands of a group of citizens who accept that work, etc. The letter shows that about 80 members of the Association of Deputies, Foundations and Funds are dissatisfied with the bill's proposal, states that the same case with the responsibilities of the Belgrade University, the Mother of Serbia, the Orthodox Church, Nikola Spasic, Vuk's responsibilities, Andric, Sima Iguman and others. The PUPS believes that the competent ministry must have found a common language with the Association of Delegations, thus avoiding a number of misunderstandings, and the law would certainly be more complete and better, and better to resolve certain issues. In order for this law to win the parliamentary majority and the PUPS will support it, but we propose that the proposed amendments improve as much as possible and resolve certain ambiguities and problems. The PUPS supports amendments submitted by the SPS and the JS, but will support others who contribute to the better regulation of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46140	Ambassador Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46141	Madam President, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, we have no law in front of us, I will say one complex topic which, I would say, is too wide for just one law. Before I could explain why this topic is too wide and why it is so complex that it could collapse into one law, I will refer to the serious attributes of tradition and borrowing to Serbs. The problem is that we focus on the 19th century, and we will see that the borrowings were created and eliminated so quickly in proportion to the development of the Serbian state that formed and settled in the 19th century. Of course, don't blame me for looking back at the etymology of the word "indemnity." I was associated with something I heard in the halls before we started this session today. These people wanted to lend their family and future generations to the task force. Ethymology is a completely different nature, they did it for the soul, so from that coin came the word "indebt" or "indemnity" from that coin. Thank our ancestors for having such a relationship with their kin and their country. Accordingly, I will return to what I first pointed out, which is the complexity of a topic that is too wide to sum up in one law. First, I'm going to look back at what's least significant at first sight, and that's the fate of the debtors. Let's look back at the Kolarac, Ilic families, the Djoke Jovanovic family and remind us, from 1945 to 1948, these people were convicted and were mostly jailed in Sremska Mitrovica. And now we're going back to what was the basic purpose of their cooperative intentions, these people aren't rehabilitated. Some families are extinct, some are displaced, simply, there are no ones who will ask the official judicial authorities and all those who are in charge of this in our country, that these people are rehabilitating, because it is more than obvious, and there is serious evidence in the works of Dragoljub Jovanovic and the wider spectrum of memoirs and scientific literature, these innocent convicted people, and in charge of their family, are simply not rehabilitated or able to be rehabilitated. Does it make sense to return the purpose to the task if the debtors, even formally-lawfully, are repented or treated as guilty? In addition, I would refer to the status of the employees themselves, and there are several laundered problems. First, Serbian officials left in charge of Serbia, i.e. in the territory of Serbia today and beyond. So the status and mode of function of the employee also has extreme legal attributes. Similarly, the question, since this substance is also part of the area of public and private law, how it will solve colitisian norms, because this is the basis of international private law, and how income and all that is in the area of private law will be regulated in a manner consistent with the fact that this matter belongs both to the area of public and to the area of private law. I'm also going to add that we are all witnesses to many abuses, people who exercise rights that draw from certain duties and accordingly, but what has been regulated so far, which I don't think will be properly regulated only by this law. Accordingly, the question of how the rest of the legislation will treat the status of officials and how the laws in other areas of law will be brought into line with what we are discussing today. There's another problem, it's even more serious than what I've just stated, and it's a different legal status of the employee. If we recall when it was raised after 1945 and after the coup of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, nationalisation and expropriation and the real legal status of the debtors were created, it was characterized by the general character of property in the then Federation People's Republic of Yugoslavia, as well as the SFRY. Indeed, the legal status of the employee is characterized by one possible form of property at the time, and now we come to the fact that this real legal status will be different, i.e. the most similar to what the will and basic purpose of the task is established, but this is where the question of damaged people with acquired rights is raised. This once again comes out of the framework of this law, because it goes into the sphere of a series of laws that exist or that need to be passed in the area of civil law, and the question of how the state will have access to this problem and how dynamic it is to solve this problem. With these open questions, I would like to thank you for your attention, and I would like to leave the rest of my time for the final word when the debate on this law is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46142	I thank and give my word to the People's Messenger Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46143	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when it comes to the draft law on the agenda today, which is the Bill of Delegations and Foundations, it is impossible for us to discuss this issue without looking back on the centuries of employment that was very much represented in Serbia until the start of World War II, and it almost died after that. We fully agree that it is also necessary to introduce order and good legal solutions in this area to enable the task and foundation to be restored and improved in the next period. As an initial basis for the advance, it can also serve this draft law on duties and foundations, but it is necessary to supplement it by adopting meaningful amendments submitted by all parliamentary groups. The bill itself did not go very well through a wider public debate, although it was conducted. In my opinion, he closely included legal matter relating to employment, and I would like to believe that the whole text of the law left out the possibility that the responsibilities and foundations founded on kiM water in the register of the responsibilities of the Republic of Serbia. We assume that the legislator had certain proposals when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija that it is an integral part of Serbia under our Constitution and that it is not particularly apostrophe, however, we have tabled one amendment and we consider it a parliamentary group that it cannot disturb the bill to introduce KIM as a word in the law itself. By accident or on purpose, the possibility of establishing foundations without founding funds is envisaged. That's certainly not the best solution for us. We have also put in an amendment that provides for the allocation of funds in the formation of foundations. I think it would be necessary to allow foreigners to participate in the formation and establishment of foundations and responsibilities, but I think it is not good for them to be independent founders, but to be co-founders with the legal and physical faces of Serbian citizens. In my view, it is completely unclear what was going to happen with the view that the duties and foundations of a non-profit NGO are, and we believe that one view is too high, given that I think it is almost prescribed by the Law on Associations of Citizens. Personally, I don't think it should stand in this bill. When it comes to the public of the work of officials and foundations, I believe that private debt obligations should not be separated from the common social benefits and foundations and removed from the eyes of the public, which is otherwise foreseen by the draft law. This could be misread in the general public and possibly in some professional circles, and I am convinced that it was not the proposing's intention, but one attempt to regulate this area in a certain way. Through the bill they also implement some vague, or rather speaking Serbian atypical words, and it would be good to correct them because they do not change the essence of meaning, but I believe that we should use acceptable words in our language. I will mention only the famous manager, in fact we have a wonderful Serbian word – the manager. I think you'll agree to this and accept our amendments. The promoter predicted that the founder appoints the board of directors and the foundation and thus ends the role of founders. In my opinion, it is necessary to provide for a much greater participation of the founders in the work of foundations and responsibilities, because at least someone who gives consent to the work plan or to the work report for the previous period, especially when it comes to financial reports on co-operation with people who, by setting up foundations and borrowings, have invested significant resources, whether material, whether they are immaterial. They must, in my opinion, have insight into how these funds are being spent and whether these funds are being spent for the purpose of fulfilling the objectives and tasks of the employee. It remains unclear to me who should oversee the board of directors and administrators, as is here, and hopefully in the future adopted bill – the warden, because it is not intended that the supervisory board stands as an authority, at least not in the law, which I think would be the right solution. Of course, it's possible to regulate it with the statutes, but it's not explicit that it should be. That leaves the possibility of not being, and then the question is, who will, if not the founder? If there is no supervisory board, then whether the warden, which is an integral part of the board of directors, will have the right to spend himself on the funds he received from the founders and ultimately control himself which, you must admit, is not good. One of the good things, the very good things that I welcome, is the provision to protect the property that was seized after World War II, and it was owned by the debt and the foundation, until legal regulations were passed that would enable, among other things, the return of property that was seized after World War II by Serbian citizens in all segments. The 12-month deadline that has been given to comply with the acts of the existing trust and trust funds is good for me and quite enough for all of this to be put into one normal order. But I'm asking a question, and I really want to believe that it was by accident that this bill excluded one category called "legates," and it's very important when it comes to, first of all, the material value of which the legions have. Not just material, but cultural and all. Of course, Article 3, I have drawn only Article 3 to point it out, because I believe that in the objectives of the employment and foundation there are a lot of life segments that will be covered in the next period. I don't understand why some of these things are very important to me, which are, for example, religious goals for religious tolerance. Especially when it comes to fostering the traditions of Serbia's Liberation Wars. Simply, there are duties and foundations established between the two world wars, where explicitly quoted things are that the objectives of the refurbishment task, that their work serves the purpose of funding, for example, children of fallen fighters in Serbia's Liberation Wars. I don't see how it could have bothered to stand a sentence like that in the goals. Anyway, the law is like a starting point good. I suppose that there will be a lot of amendments accepted in the debate in particular, and on that behalf I call on the minister to consider all amendments well, and the SPS-JS Parliament Club has submitted 16 amendments and we hope that, if not all, at least the large majority will be accepted and on that behalf I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46144	National MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46145	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the Bill of Delegations and Funds is filled with empty and mutually conflicting members and completely absurd ideas. The impression is that writers of the law on employment know nothing or do not live in Serbia. It is inadmissible that the legislator violates the Constitution of this country. Staff churches and monasteries on KIM are not mentioned in this law. The law recognises only the AP of Vojvodina, and the southern Serbian province, it simply gave it up. The Law on Liabilities had to define at least the principles that would apply to nationalised borrowings. They're mentioned in the law in two places. Article 12 exempts them from being less than 30,000 euros in dinar equivalent, and Article 70 prohibits the alienation and burden of property seized from debt after 1945 and stipulates that the ban applies until the law on denationalisation and restitution is passed. There are no criminal provisions for a violation of article 70. This member simply (President: I just wanted to ask you to put the microphone down a little bit, you sound really bad. Thank you. It hangs in the air. I fully understand the legitimate bitterness and concern of citizens who have been living in buildings for decades, and their apartments cannot be bought. Even if they start charging them commercial rents, as they threaten, that money certainly wouldn't be returned to their debts, because that kind of thing in the proposed law doesn't say. If this law had been prescribed only in principle, but justly, how the nationalised duties would bring in their purpose, the tenants of the buildings would have known what they were on. They would not be forced to seek justice on the street and prove that in this country, all citizens are not equal. The proposed law does not respect the debt of the employeeship, and nothing modern has brought us, except the debauchery spirit present at all that this government is doing. In the Serbian tradition, the idea of an employee was enlightening. Household buildings, money, gold, gold mines, forests and fields, benefactors donated for the construction of schools, boarding schools, hospitals and theatres, publication of books, library equipment, funding of scientific work, scholarship of students. It is well known to whom this fabulous property belonged and what it was meant for. In the Western world, where this power is insidiously hoarse, ownership is sacred. After World War II, the property was confiscated, drawn, the owners changed, the objectives of the assets were forgotten. We no longer keep the memory of our benefactors. In the modern Serbian state of the second half of the 19th and first half of the 20th century, wealthy, sometimes semi-written merchants, industrialists, university professors, church dignitaries, politicians were founded. They were moved by the desire to raise their people and Serbia closer to Europe. Enlightenment, education and culture are not the subject of this law. Out of a great desire to please Europe the more we have destroyed our system of education and culture. Serbia's history for the legislators of this law begins when we have received a pro-European power that does not ask us for a price, if necessary, we will give up the works of our territory, only to become a member of the EU, despite it. This law is written as if we've never had any debts before. It is possible that the legislator is counting on some of us yet unknown form of employment that we are about to meet. Who could be in charge today? Since the rich are very few, does he count on the shamelessly wealthy? Is the covert goal of this law to shamefully make the rich pour fresh money into these new and us so far unknown forms of debt and foundation? In Article 3 of these imaginary future benefactors, the law tax is taxing on whom it will donate its property: European integration, of course, international understanding, sustainable development, provided that these activities are not contrary to the Constitution and the law. Well, nothing must be contrary to the Constitution and the law. Every gift is a moral act. The one who gives himself decides who he will give something to and for whom he will give something. How does this law prescribe the management of the property? A hundred years ago, the debt was founded in Serbia with a basic letter, so-called or will. The founding act makes it clear what the commission is intended for, who will manage it and how. Less educated benefactors entrusted the job of writing statutes and choosing a full-confidence employee's office to the state. The property was then sacred in Serbia as well. In this law, the entire 11 members are committed to the internal organisation of officials, statutes, boards of directors, boards of directors, the mandate of the boards of directors, the prohibition of conflicts of interest. Despite so many members, it remained unclear whether the founding act was older than the statutes or vice versa. Almost each of the 11 members mentioned also contains the inserted sentence "if the founding act is not otherwise prescribed". It would be said that the founding act is older than the statutes. Again, the same members show that the boards of directors are elected in accordance with the statutes, which means they decide on how to achieve the objectives of the delegations and foundations, and they can change them. It used to be different. At the Ministry of Education there was a department of responsibilities. At the head of the department was the chief of staff, on the ground to review the business books of the employee, the supervisors went, on important matters for all the employees was decided by the commission council, the basic property – the principal was not allowed to be spent, and the objectives of the employee were achieved from the proceeds resulting from the management of the property. The most indemnity was founded in the period of our history when Serbs built their own state. We're systematically decomposing her today. Since the once respected state, Serbia has become a state for achieving other people's interests. There is no noble idea that can be realized without money. This law has introduced debt and funds without property. To achieve their noble goals, under this law, foundations can count on a state budget, in which there is no money for the most basic needs of the population. The money from the Republic, the province, the city and municipal registers can be counted even by foreign foundations established without property and without money. Is there anything more pointless in the situation in which our country is today? Maybe it's the idea of a promoter to create another money-laundering channel through a fund-raiser with no money and no property. Tasks set up to achieve private interest are also foreseen, for example, to educate their own children, which is a complete scandal. Is there anything more opposite to the idea of hiring? Hire is giving, not taking. Why would someone start a foundation to educate their own children? Probably to take advantage of tax exemptions. To make things even blacker and worse, the duties established to achieve private interest are not mandatory to the public of their work. All other assets are, and these aren't. What guarantees in this law that the property of the asset and the foundation will not be misused? In Article 48, the total asset of the asset shall be guaranteed. In practice, this means that the unwitting or unlawful operations of the boards of directors can lead to the suspension of the task and abandonment of the objectives for which it was established. Already in article 49, this is the form of guaranteeing the asset, the property is relatively relatively. Exceptionally, from the provisions laid down in Article 48 of this Act, the manager of his or her personal property shall be responsible for the obligations of the employee. Couldn't the promoter have made up his mind? In law enforcement, this is how it's going to be chosen. If he's our manager, he'll pay his dues. If it's not ours, he'll pay for his personal property. These are all our laws: imprecise, empty, contradictory and inapplicable. The state in this law does not assume any responsibility for the task. The supervision of law enforcement is entrusted to the Ministry of Culture, which is our capacity to monitor even what is in his basic work description. We have already adopted amendments and additions to one law, where the Ministry has accepted the fact that it has no capacity to monitor and surveillance has been transferred to another ministry. Neither does any other ministry in today's government have the capacity nor the political will to oversee the business of employees. The state in this law is present through an empty promise that the budget will help the foundation without property, and our budget is struggling and cannot cope with the deficit, in order to meet the requirements set by the IMF by the government. Instead of the fact that the laws are precisely defined instruments of supervision of the business of borrowings and foundations, the law points to household business, whatever that means. How to control whether domestic business is done, the law does not say. To repeat, the law on responsibilities and foundations, which the government is proposing, does not deal with borrowing churches, monasteries and KIM estates. If we can't go there today, there must be enough material in the Serbian Archives that we can even register them and prove it's a Serbian, not a Kosovo cultural heritage. It does not solve the problem of nationalised buildings that were once over in every street in Belgrade, mostly in the city's strict centre. He did not properly regulate the supervisory management of the property. In addition to the usual general provisions to the boards of directors, the actual business control mechanism does not prescribe. The state hasn't stepped behind the debt with its own apparatus, not offering real help, just declarative and invaluable. But that's why we have loans and funds without assets to be financed from the budget, and there's no money in the budget for the cure. We have responsibilities for the pursuit of private interests, and since it's an asset at all, it's usually tax evasion or I don't know what. The draft law on borrowings and foundations today, which is ahead of us, will be adopted by the ruling majority with an already close, minimal majority, as well as by all laws so far, on condition that they look like a European, even nakaradno, even as their cartoons, even if they were torn from the context of other people's tradition, a foreign legal system and other living conditions. This law will not be of any benefit to any debt still active either to those who are nationalised or to those who are founded with honorable intentions. The DSS will not vote in favour of this law, although it is very concerned about the restoration of employment, and a good law on borrowings is considered necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46146	I give my word to the People's Messenger Sasa Milenic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, respected members of the government, respected presidents, we have, at the moment, a bill of law which is and how significant, which is what the Prime Minister also spoke of, but also an extremely high-quality legal text that I think I'm talking about on behalf of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, as I'm guessing it is still officially called the United Regions of Serbia's MPs. When I talk about the quality and values of this bill, I would also refer to the methodological character of this legislative proposal, to concrete solutions, but also to one of the broader social and political importance that you are already starting discussions with slightly when it comes to the subject of borrowing. In methodological terms, we first have a bill that is first as a text in the form of its exposure in language, worth the attention, respect, and I think that should be emphasized. It shall determine the content of the basic concepts by appropriate and acute definitions. Other concepts that are essential for this area determine quite clearly and clearly, which makes the legal text elegant, not only in this aesthetic sense, which is not without meaning, but primarily logically. And this will say that it is approaching that instructions from the SE Parliamentary Assembly which our legal school still has many difficulties following, not to quote but to convince, the laws should be presented in as simple a language as possible so that the largest number of people can, without special difficulties, read and understand them. This is exactly the legal text, but as a result of the unquestionably engaged expertise in his presentation. But it's not the very essence of the methodological quality that I've announced that I especially want to point out. I would especially like to highlight the very methodology of creating public acts which is obviously an example of good practice in the Ministry of Culture, although the resolute minister belongs to that expert part of the government, is not listed by Mr. Bradic in professional politics, but in that sense in 20 years the multi-party system as many ministers as we have had the very large majority of them could envy him for political wisdom. What am I talking about? Before the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, I telephoned several tasks and foundations of national importance and reputation with which I cooperate or maintain contact. I was extremely pleasantly surprised that they were not familiar with the bill, but had a relationship with it as according to a fixed agreement with the Ministry of Culture. This is one of the most political important moments in, I repeat, the methodology of creating public acts which, due to speed, due to alleged deadlines, we most often fail to respect in its real social meaning, which is that the public debate, of course, is the broadest, and especially public debate in the narrow public, of direct interest in the area defined by the law, is an unfortunate condition of the quality of the legislative proposal. That's why you around this bill won't have any bumps, it won't have a public response in any way, not because it's not interesting, it's not interesting or it's not good, but because it doesn't create problems, it means the will created to bring it into that most important core. It seems to me something special to point out, because politics isn't really about choosing the most efficient means to meet the goals given, it's not about engineering, it's not about budgeting. Even when the best political and legal solutions that are intended to be taken into question cannot be of quality if they do not actually represent one prior consensus of will, unless the effect is achieved not to impose a solution on the public but to make the citizen feel that his individual will has been preserved in this final legislative process or legislative will, which is shaped by the National Assembly. It is an overly difficult task, but it is directly related to what it really aims at and this law, as regards the broader, social, political values that the subject of the debtors implies, and that is why this should have been highlighted and highlighted. Of course, as far as the content and concrete solutions are concerned, we understand its advantages first and foremost in the comparative law which has so far regulated this area, it is the Law on Delegations, Foundations and Funds, which was passed long ago in 1989, if I am not mistaken, and it is obvious that the analysis that has contributed to us in this bill of law to the Ministry of Culture, which has been expertly done, clearly on the current shortcomings of the law justify the adoption of a new law, and not possibly the procedure for patching up, molding through some procedure of the laws on amendments and additions. Some original solutions, which now exist and represent very interesting legal institutes, completely unknown to the existing law, the existing law implies borrowing within the framework of the general objectives. For the first time now, we are also talking about private goals and interests for whose realisation can be established. There are far more significant moments. Let's just say that the founder of the task force can be a natural person, it ruled out the possibility of corporate borrowing, and that is the final theme of the social importance of this area, which directly concerns the category of social responsibility of capital. However, it is not the only innovation. The existing law, if I am not mistaken, has defined in the formulation that the debt, the foundation, may be established in the event that at the time of the establishment, there is sufficient resources to meet, or to achieve the objective for which it is set up, which is quite a moment of arbitration on the part of the registration authority, which is not a satisfactory context for the affirmation of the culture of borrowing. And of course, what is fundamentally, far the most significant, the fact that the status-law forms of this activity differ in the existing law on the basis of property and legal categories, which no longer belong to the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia at all, above all, such as the category of social property and there is no doubt that the decision to make a completely new legal act with and these solutions that I have mentioned, is justified only by possible correctness. What makes the topic extremely important is beyond the framework of cultural climate of employment as traditions and practices are the objectives for which this law is adopted. It is explicit that the promoter himself has formulated transparency in these affairs as one of the goals. Of course, we understand that in the context of the corruption of many traditions and the tradition of witnessed values. Today, we are contemporaries of the phenomenon of more serious playmaking and with this truly bright tradition of our people, the tradition of employment, and there is no doubt that all forms of manipulation, malversion in this area would be prevented from being the basic prerequisite of clarity, eloquence and actuality, consistency, modernity, more precisely, legal norms that regulate this area. It seems that far more significant and current is the goal that speaks of the incentive that Mr. Bradic also highlighted in his opening statement, namely that the aim of this law is to encourage the practice of borrowing in Serbia. This practice is a bright tradition, which has had a fundamental impact on historical flows, nations, states and this society. In fact, its importance can't even be estimated how great it is, because if you look at not only the medieval, which is also the school's thematical theathematic history, but rather the very modern history of Serbia, you'll see that the strategic and geopolitical decisions of this nation are based on that practice, from the capital's definition, to the definition of reper objects to satisfy the public and cultural functions of the nation, are actually nothing from the tradition of borrowing. However, today this topic is somehow more simple to articulate through issues of social responsibility for capital. The question arises, on the one hand, – how much are we really willing to expect in a serious, objective way social responsibility of capital? How much am I socially legitimate in a public debate, by public expectations, forecasts, public sentiment? In a large number of discussions, even in this home, as well as in other relevant discussions on the public scene, capital is still used as an abstract concept for negative social tendencies. You won't be able to come across the most serious personalities, addresses and discussions, which, in addition to scientific, legal, socially responsible terms, don't use, say, tycoon term. I have always insisted on explaining to me whether this is an incrimination, something that should be reported to law enforcement, prosecution or a lack of understanding of a social ideal that makes reform harder. Until today, I don't know what tycoons are, whether tycoons are representatives of large-scale capital that we know are criminal, and then we don't know the answer to the question – what isn't processed; or whether it's a capital provision, which we probably know is evil in itself, which is actually a fluid of communist heritage with which we've never made a serious discount. That's actually what this is about. There is a modern economist, and it should not be surprising that today's economy is largely ahead of its ability to exhibit and synthetic attitudes and insights, which says that communism as a system and Marxism as an ideology has failed because they have failed to create the new man they have promised, but that does not mean that they have not left any trace behind. He's not in charge, but as some black employee who lives in our heads when we're not aware, he thinks Communism and marquism have awakened all the worst traits of old Adam. The vanity, certainty, secrecy, planting and finally, cynicism, as the most grand monument, are actually the social assets of communism that we still have to face today in the most serious way. And not only that, and this was the reason for those methodological, conditionally speaking, commendations at the beginning, by finding the most operational, most comprehensive solutions, but by launching political processes of social events that intend to restore civil society and its content, by recreating values from everyday to employment, values that represent the liquids of the real life of civil society and the only real alternative to one of the cynicisms in which we sink, all in search of the fastest and best hocus-pocus solutions, and without serious willingness to create discontinuity with our own identity and heritage built in the second half of the 20th century. In this sense, restoring the tradition of second-guessing is actually a renewal of the culture of philanthropy, an incentive to cultivate altruistic values, not as a subject of ridicule, not as a vain illusion of a former age, but as real human factors and social forces in the modern world in Serbia today. In this sense, this law is one of those steps that has far greater meaning than the small work and humane area that regulates it, and in this sense I announce that the MPs of the new Party Together for the Forest, as well as the MPs of the G 17 Plus, MPs of the United Regions of Serbia, or the G 17 plus MPs with a sense of pride, will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46148	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46149	I would begin with the question asked by the MPs – whether this law is making something new, or by finding out that it does not bring anything new, and I realize that it cannot be precisely because this law is necessary, above all, because it was previously based on institutions which the legal order today knows and because it was necessary to establish a modern and improved legal framework for defining roles and duties and foundations in Serbia. It, like all modern duties, is based on basic principles, principles of volunteering, autonomy of will, social utility, the principle of application instead of the principle of approval when it comes to the registration of responsibilities and foundations and on the principle of more favourable tax treatment. I think that in this principle debate, and I believe that there will be a lot more talk about it when we talk about amendments, there are also certain misunderstandings and misunderstandings between certain legal institutes. Therefore, the officials assume that individuals or legal persons, which is also newspapers in this law, can direct their private wealth and invest in general or public purposes. It is also very important to specify that in the formation of responsibilities and foundations their objectives are clearly and precisely defined and therefore the responsibilities and foundations differ significantly from those of citizens who, among other things, form on the basis of membership, which is not the case with responsibilities and foundations. There has also been a debate on tasks formed for private purposes and I understand that there is one concern in society that people with greater or smaller wealth do not use laws or do not abuse the possibility of using their wealth further in some illegal or illicit way, but this is really not about it. It's about institutes that are sometimes called family responsibilities. This is one possibility and the right that should enable citizens to leave their apartment to their children by their will or by some kind of founding statement of their will so that they can complete their studies. We're going to have a debate here, our colleague Rajkov was talking about how important it is for families with children with disabilities. That's exactly what we're talking about when it comes to loans that are set up for private purposes. There is a confusion here and I believe that, with the participation of the Minister and his associates, we will clarify what should be the subject of this law and is the subject of this law and the subject of some other laws, such as the law of restitution or perhaps the law of residence, I don't think there is a lack of will here to discuss it, but simply to clarify whether it is really the subject and subject of this law. What I have pointed out in my previous presentation, I think the most important contribution to this law is the development of culture, the benevolence that has somehow disappeared today in our society, and perhaps in our global society, although in a very dramatic way. What connects the borrowings that exist from Plato's Academy and from Byzantine officials, old Serbian officials, was exactly the attitude towards public good, and therefore this law allows this concept of public good to start thinking in a different way. I will be involved in the reminders that my colleagues have already opened about old Serbian duties, in the duties between the two world wars due to an interesting data. When we read the history of benefactors at the time, we will learn that there were also illiterate people among them and that illiterate people have decided that the greatest goal and greatest gift they can give to their society, their fellow citizens and their country is to invest in education and culture. It is really dramatic to think that in today’s time of access to information and knowledge, there is a lack of such understanding because today, certainly less than then, but today there is a need for the capacities of our educational and cultural institutions to be strengthened. Interestingly, at that time, there was a Fund for the Helping of Poor Writers through the employs and foundation. I believe that even today, such a fund could find its place. So, these are, if we talk about tradition, I think we should talk about exactly these positive examples that show that today there really is a serious lack of philanthropy, or if we translate that word into Serbian -- lack of love for what is human, lack of empathy and lack of social solidarity. Today, more than ever in Serbia, more investment and support for scientific research, student scholarships, book printing is necessary in the last 20 years. So these are all areas where this law provides an opportunity for them to be strengthened, that these potentials, which are poor, are strengthened. The Committee on Culture and Information a while ago hosted the director of the Pittsburgh Philharmonic Foundation established by the Carnegie Foundation. At that time, he spoke to MPs about how important the incentive for donors is tax relief, and how many other motives, and he himself said that tax reliefs are very important and that they are the basis for the existence of borrowings and foundations, but much more than that is culture and understanding that investing in culture is one of the highest social goals that anyone who can return to their society can achieve in this way. I hope that the amendments we have made in certain parts of the laws that can be improved will be done, and I expect that we will continue to discuss this law in a good and dynamic way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46150	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46151	The word "debt" is one of the most beautiful Serbian words because it is derived from the word "soul", and the word "for" reveals that something is for the soul. The term "debt" means "simplified" to the soul forever. Which makes this Serbian heritage unique in the world, so that borrowing, in its original meaning, enriches Europe's and world heritage, and we should not neglect it in the trend of the grandeur of other people's cultural treasure. It is precisely because of all those young, middle-aged, as well as people of later life who have forgotten, and some have not even learned how much in the spirit of the Serbian people's borrowing and how many famous responsibilities there are next to which we pass each day, without recognising them, that it is important to give some kind of history of employment in Serbia. History is the mother of all knowledge, and God will give a repeat of the golden period of Serbian generosity. We all die once, and great people die twice. The first time they disappear from the ground, and the second time their debt is ruined. In these words, Ivo Andric begins a monograph of "Employment and employment and tradition of the Serbian people" by the artist and art historian Gordana Gordic. The book was issued with the intention of reminding the public that loans are one of the oldest social institutions in Serbia and that putting into use private wealth in order to meet the general interests of each individual's long-term goal, according to the introduction of the book, is the publisher of the Serbian Business Club of Business. In addition to this book, art historian Gordana Gordić organized an exhibition with the patronage of the "Mother of Immigrants" in 2008. They donated their motherland with the idea of showing in one place what it was given to the Serbian people and who they were. Two were the motives of this great author, to say the least – the donors get such recognition from us, because at least they deserve so much to know who they are and to encourage and restore the tradition of giving forever. So today's wealthy people become potential donors to their people. If nothing else, this event would be a nice opportunity for those who today have the power to show how in this transition, mob chaos we live in, we still haven't completely lost our sense of universal and basic values. Obligation in Serbia is still mentioned in Dusan's code. Perhaps that should have been mentioned to the white world powers, when negotiations are being held on this old country, such as Serbia, and within these four-eyed talks. In 1896, Serbia passed a Law on Indemnities, which was very advanced at the time, which was replaced by a new one in 1912, while in 1925 a regulation was adopted on the management of property assets and the exercise of the right of supervision of the employee administrations. The post office decree was introduced by Vuk Karadzic in the "Serbian Dictionary" -- the biggest task being to create a monastery or church, as Serbian emperors and kings did. Then the commission is to make a pot of water or through a pond, a kelp on a rusty road, bring water and make it near the road, plant or water the fruit near the road, feed the hungry, thirsty water, naked clothes. It says in the "Serbian Dictionary", currently, you'll admit. In the Middle Ages, the church was the most common type of employee. St. Stefan Decanski explained this way the construction of the High Decains – I should also make a godly mention of my life, so that he may gain a good word after the resolution of this vain life. The most famous monasteries and responsibilities are: Studenica - Stefan Nemanja, Žiča – Stefan Nemmanić, Mileseva – Vladislav Nemmanić, Lazarica – Prince Lazar, Sveti Archangel – Emperor Dušan and others. In medieval Serbia, officials were mostly rulers, wealthy authorities and high church dignitaries. Later, the founders of funds and debt, most often formed by the main institutions of Serbian culture, were people of all Serbia's social layers. Successful wholesalers, industrialists, ministers, teachers, officers, bishops and politicians. The Serbian authorities were least represented during the Turkish and Austrian governments. Interestingly, it's like history repeats itself. At the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries, secondment began to develop, and the Serbian Ministry of Education opened the task force to reach its peak in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The first fund with a capital of 250 ducats was founded by Duke Toma Vukic Perišić, Ilija Milosavljevic Kolarac in 1857, as a reference to the victims from 1804 to 1815. In addition to Kolarac, Serbian borrowing of that time was marked by Misa Anastasijević, who was next to Prince Milos the richest Serb in the 19th century. Misa Anastasijević was in the prince's service as a Danube captain. He had five daughters, all married to the most prominent Serbs of the day. One of them was married to the leader's grandson, Djorge Karadzic. Captain Misha built a building in his motherland in 1863. Here were the most important cultural and educational institutions of Serbia – high school, large school, Ministry of Education, National Library and National Museum. Both Kolarac and Captain Misha were pig merchants. Kolarac founded a literary fund, bringing in 100 ducats in 1861, to reach the sum of 11,000 ducats by 1874. They were obviously ingesting, and they weren't carrying. Ilija Kolarac tragically ended his life on charges of participation in the Topolska Rebellion. No one said a word at the funeral. His résumé, Milan Đ. Milicevic, noted that Kolarc will have to speak of it through the centuries and the more beautiful it will be. Of the generous and noble gestures, an example of artillery captain Nikola Cupić, the grandson of the famous Dragon of Nights, Stojan Cupić, should also be given. Nikola Cupic has suffered from tuberculosis, has been seriously harassed by the disease and is aware of the outcome of his assets he has left to be used to publish moral and scientific books. Nikola Spasic, a merchant, willed his building on the Duke of Michael Street. Luka Celovic Trebinjac has pledged his property to the Belgrade University. Vladimir Vlajko Kalenic gave all the property for charity purposes, and one of the largest Serbian Belgrade markets, Kalenic's markets, was in hiding on his land in Vracar. For Ilija Milosavljevic Kolarac, Miso Anastasijević or Nikola Spasic, the merchants, most of the Belgraders know about the buildings that they have made known to their people. So Kolarce's National University, Captain Mishino's Building, rescues the task. How many of us know, for example, who Persida Milenkovic is, even though she may be passing the Mathematical High School on the street of Queen Natalia, who she raised with her husband Risto? Its golden age in Belgrade is experiencing in the period from 1918 to 1941, when several large responsibilities were formed, such as Nikola Spasic's, Alexa Krsmanović, Luka Celovic Trebinjc, Vlajko Kalenić, Ilija Milosavljevic Kolarac, Nikola Ćupić, Sima Andrejevic Igumanova, Perside Milenković and others. Practically, since World War II, there's almost no legacy, because socialism shouldn't have been rich people, at least not in public. Today, when there are not only wealthy people, but also monopolies, it's not the task that's being considered. Except, of course, those who would raise themselves, which is unfortunately referred to by this bill. If you thought I made this extensive historical introduction suck, you're wrong. He was made very deliberately, with the idea of showing how right Mr. Costa Andrejevic, chairman of the Association of Deputies, Foundations and Funds and all people, and there are at least 80 of them, who, on behalf of the Association of Delegations, Foundations and Funds, spoke in writing to the government, the speaker of parliament, who is also a professor, as well as all parliamentary groups in the Serbian assembly. They addressed themselves as people of the profession, people who and how they knew what was the essence of the responsibilities, with the appeal that this bill was discreetly withdrawn from the procedure and directed to do so, in order to avoid a scandal that would have huge political consequences and obtaining a law on duties that was fundamentally against them. If we know that the responsibilities are not political but humanitarian, and that the borrowing, as I said at the very beginning, is understood as an activity for the soul, and that forever, then we really need to think about how far this bill is, in fact, moving us away from the essence. About 80 members of the Association of Delegations, Foundations and Funds opposed the text proposal for a new law adopted by the Serbian government and gave their solutions. The same case is for Belgrade University, SANU, Mother of Serbia, SPC, Nikola Spasic, Vukovo, Andric, Sima Igumanov and others. It is evident that the Ministry of Culture and the Commission for Law Making do not have any documents supporting the proposal. The Commission organised several public debates, attended by its team in Serbia and Belgrade to support the text as if it were pre-election activities. Of the other participants in the meeting in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, Valjevo and twice in Belgrade, there was no one involved in the task force. Participants could make remarks and suggestions that, unfortunately, the authors of the text did not pay attention. Of the 20 commission members, two were in charge, one was in the task force and after a few meetings he resigned, which did not upset anyone at the culture ministry. Other members of the commission, engaged on various grounds, were mostly members of non-governmental organisations financed, guess where from, from Brussels. The officials were not involved in determining the final text, probably because of their critical attitude. In other words, it was possible to participate and speak, but only the order works because it was impossible to exercise any influence. The proposal expired from the Budapest European Centre for Non-Profit Law, which made similar proposals for the former SFRY countries. A representative of this centre was a member of the commission and working group. I really did not intend to deny the good intentions of the legislators of this law, and I believe that the draft new law on responsibilities and foundations was meant to modernize and legally regulate responsibilities, and thus update the abandoned idea of creating a permanent and valuable gift to the offspring. The new solutions, as stated by the Ministry of Culture, clearly and more precisely define the possibility of setting up a debt and a foundation because, under the applicable 1989 law, only a natural person was allowed to establish a task, which was "averted the development of so-called corporate employment". The new law aims to create an incentive legal framework for the development of employment, as well as their transparent management and business, the legislators of this law argue. They are free of the good intentions of the promoter when the work on this law was helped by Soros and Americans, more specifically the Open Society Fund, the Institute of Sustainable Communities and the American Agency for International Development. With all due respect to them and their efforts, the Serbian people have more experience and a far richer tradition of employment than many high-speed oilmen, cowboys or silk metrosexuals, who will already explain to us in the third member how the objectives of Serbia's employment are to promote European integration and international understanding. Is it really possible that there is one single segment of our life in which it is not essential to understand this mantra "EU has no alternative"? When we eat, we must bear in mind that the EU has no alternative, when we write, we know that English becomes Esperanto, when we are born and multiply everything must be in line with the principles of the EU, just and when we go to the toilet, there is no more reading of the newspaper, except for those who promote the EU. So we're going to get a chronic obsession. I do not believe Kolarac, Vlajko Kalenić, Nikola Spasic and Persida Milenkovic were people of tiny souls and narrow looks. I know for a fact that even my grandfather Cedomir Jankovic, a successful merchant in prison, a great curiosity and a lover in the then new seventh art, magical moving images, was not a limited man. Seeing a small cinema called "Astoria" in Vienna in 1920, he liked it very much, so he decided to build one in Zajecar. He bought a place in the city center to build a modern cinema on it, and he built a design for it by then known architect and engineer Kolar. The construction of Timok cinema began in 1921. It was a modern building at the time with a semicircular balcony, a parter that had a box on the side, while in the middle of the hall and three rows were tables with chairs. The total number of seats was 200. With the expansion of the sound film, my grandfather Ceda Jankovic reconstructed the cinema hall, built two other buildings, with a bar and floor, as well as a terrace for the summer cinema. New Erneman branding apparatus was also purchased, with an additional device and a gramophone. In one of the rooms of the cinema building's basement, there was a dune aggregate, that in case the power went out, and that the cinema worked uninterruptedly. After 1944, the aggregate was handed over by the People's Committee on Regents to the General Hospital in Zajecar, so that in the event of the power outage, the operations could be carried out. Every year in January, for Christmas and Holy Sava, there were free shows for elementary school students. Also, during the year, from 10 to 12 shows of educational character for younger and older students are shown at lower prices. On Saturdays and Sundays, dances were organized in the afternoons, which took place in all the free time. That's what the Serbs who brought something from the world to Serbia brought something for the soul, and forever. Although my grandfather was murdered in 1944, his property was confiscated, except for the apartment upstairs, where a grandmother with four sons was left. It wasn't any EPP for my family, it was a question that is fundamentally related to this law on responsibilities. I have had the opportunity to read hundreds of letters, comments, and talk to people whose problems are brought down to one question – a new law is being passed on in the second World War, and no property has been recovered that has been taken from indemnities and indemnities since World War II. What about the return of the property that was taken from the people in charge? Isn't that the obligation of the Serbian state to join the EU? In the Serbian Archives, there is documentation on 490 assets and funds. After World War II, the relationship with officials and philanthropy changed completely. After 1945, the property of all private organizations, responsibilities, legacy and funds was confiscated. The Nationalisation of City Building Land Act, adopted in 1958, led to the withdrawal of all buildings and other facilities owned by these philanthropic organizations. Unfortunately, these property issues have not been resolved today. In the name of the people, the nationalised responsibilities that were intended for that same people are nationalized. Most of them were completely forgotten, never written or talked about. Kidnapped buildings in the most attractive locations have become the subject of many fighting. It was also used by unscrupulous crime, where the state closed its eyes tightly. Thus, the building in Knez Mihailovo 33 in Belgrade, which Nikola Spasic promised to the people for health care and economy, is used by only one businessman, a certain Miomir Kreljac, who opened the Krona hotel here. Despite being ordered by the construction inspection to destroy everything that was adapted and restore the asset building to its original state, he came up with an incredible idea to turn the asset of Nikola Spasic into the asset of Miomir Kreljc. In order to reach Milos Crnjanski's command, you have to go through the dark corridor, which has a toilet building on the right and on the other sink. Because of that toilet, the front door of the department is locked and when there are people in it, so if you want to come in, you have to knock on the front window to ask those present to let you go. Although well-known Serbian merchant Nikola Spasic has left the tenancy of 12,000 square metres of residential and business space, the asset is now located in only 68 square meters. It is obvious that this country needs a new correct law on borrowings and foundations, which is certainly not, especially in view of its anti-trafficking character. When certain incomes are intended for one man and that charity seems to be for only one particular group of people, it is not a task, but a way not to pay taxes. The task is made permanent, and it aims to be for the general benefit of society, not individuals, according to Professor Andrejevic and adds – the asset means the property, without it there is no charity that is achieved through the borrowing. The funds must also have funds. Today, however, hundreds of them have been registered in Serbia, but there is no one in most because the idea was to build a fund, to give little funding, if there was a legal obligation to register and expect to attract money as a fund, and most often live on it. It's an investment, and it has nothing to do with charity. These foundations compete with the departments for various projects, so when these funds are reportedly received through the project, they work for the benefit of society. Instead of helping as funds, they actually carry out the tasks of the institute, and we in Serbia have 50 such scientific institutions and none of them can live because they don't have the money to work. So, in order to prevent a great deal of confusion, damage, playing with the true tradition of Serbian employment, return this bill to work, if for no other reason, then because it is anti-constitutional because it contains members referring to the violation of Serbia's territorial integrity. According to this mantra, "the EU has no alternative", this bill lacked the territory of KIM, and the question remains – is it really the government's practical activity to break up Serbia's territorial integrity? This turns out to be the exact comment of one of our citizens – our politicians in power are the biggest employees, they've enormously in charge of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46152	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: LDP, New Serbia, DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, SNS, SRS and For European Serbia. I give my word to MP Natasa Vukkovic of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46153	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my deep belief that when we talk about the Law on Delegations and Foundations, we actually express one position of our society and our country on past and present values and wishes and how we will preserve them for the future. I think we all agree that the adoption of a new law in this area was necessary because no changes to the old law could be made so far. This law, in addition to being necessary, is complemented by another law, which we passed, seems to me two years ago, it is the Law on Associations of Citizens. He's complimentary for two reasons. First of all, because, together with the Law on Associations of Citizens, the Law on Delegations and Foundations regulates something that is free, civil, civil sphere of action. It's actually a question, it's an area in which citizens can directly influence the creation of some social change, whether it's about helping the poor, whether it's about investing in education, science culture. In citizens' associations, citizens act as activists, and through the responsibilities and foundations citizens leave or invest part of their assets, part of their assets, part of their city, creating these social changes they want to make. What's very important for the debt and the foundation, I don't think he's pointed out yet, is that they're creating what's called local donations. We hear also here opinions against foreign donors and the fact that our civil society has been developed dominantly over the past 20 years from the funds of foreign donors and international organisations, above all by EU international organisations. I don't see anything wrong with that, but I think it's very good and we need to develop donations in Serbia, in local communities, that we have funds and loans that could boost the development of civil society and the development of civil values. What happens to Serbia's employment, as it has had historical developments, we can read about it in various books, and there is a lot of information on the Internet. The fact that our medieval monasteries were the first forms of employment. The fact is, these monasteries were designed to contribute primarily to the expansion of education and the preservation of knowledge. I think it's important that we keep in mind when we talk about what medieval employees had in mind when they were building beautiful buildings. In the 19th century and in the first half of the 20th century, Serbian employment experienced its golden century. There we were in line with what was happening in Europe, in America, in all the countries where the need to invest in some social community, in value and in development appeared. What this area looks like today in Serbia, primarily regulated by this old 1980 law that has indeed become anachron and does not correspond to the time in which both duties and foundations work. It's a large number of inactive and indecipherable assets and foundations, for various reasons. Some have indeed formed, without the intention of surviving for a long time, and on the other hand a large number of duties and foundations have been disabled in their work. We know that both nationalisation and urban construction land in 1958, and throughout that period, that there has been a confiscation of the property and that this is a major issue that would significantly disabling or discourage any kind of borrowing in Serbia in the last 50 years of the 20th century. But what's also important is that in the last 20 years we've been witnessing a large number of new foundations and funds that are currently engaged in improving different areas and are falling into something called charity volunteering, taking care of what's good, which is general interest, less or more general, but social interest. What's new about this law? It's a lot of newspapers, just because the whole system of organizations and debt is changing, and I'd like to highlight some new solutions. First of all, according to current law, there were, in addition to borrowings and foundations, these funds, where foundations were organised by socio-political communities, as they were then called. Today we are defined by this bill of law for two forms. These are the duties and foundations, where, if this law is passed, the existing funds will actually have to be reregistered, to bring their actions into line with the functioning of the foundations that regulate this law. It is very important that this law provides very detailedly what are the objectives that are considered general objectives. There is a big debate, and it was also on the task force that prepared the law and the issue of this private interest, could the debt be established in the private interest? It has exceeded one solution that exists in a large number of European countries, which is that, in fact, when you're making your property known, you have the right to in some way bequeath it for the purposes that you consider important. So it's freedom of will. It's freedom to determine what will happen to your property, whether for life or after death. If the objectives are legally permitted and the law determines that they must be legally allowed, then there should be nothing disputed. What's important is that the law fully decidently determines what these are allowed targets. I would only like one confusion, which may have been created in the debate so far, to look back at it, which is precisely in Article 6 of the law, when it comes to the illegal objectives, the law says that the objectives and functioning of the task must not be contrary to the legal order, and especially should not be directed at the violent destruction of the constitutional order and the violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. So these remarks that can be heard, that the law has some hidden intentions in breaching territorial integrity do not stand at all. I think it is a very important provision that speaks about the public of work, employment and foundation, and if it is about institutions, organisations, which can be used and some social, therefore state budgets, then it is of course very important that they be transparent and that what they are doing is available to the public and that I agree with one comment, which has been given in the debate so far on the public work of officials, who have private interests in their cause, private goals, private interests, that they should also have an obligation to the public to work and, in that sense, an amendment has been submitted. I hope he gets adopted. The issue of registration is very detailedly regulated, the registration authority is the Agency for Business Registers, to which the Ministry trusts this job. I think it is very important to point out that the maximum solutions, which the law provides, are to reduce the power of discretionary decision-making when establishing or registering a task and foundation or refusing to register. So it's a very important thing, to reduce the discretionary powers of the administration always. As for the internal organisation, it is quite decadently regulated for one form that belongs to the domain of the civil private sphere, such as foundations and borrowings, but on the other hand, the law leaves a lot of freedom for founders and employees and foundations to call first of all the management bodies, to regulate the way in which the employment or foundation is managed differently, and I don't think there should be any problem. As I have already said, this is one free civil, civil sphere and citizens are free to set up institutions themselves, regardless of what they are for general social purposes, offices themselves, such as citizens' associations. A very important solution to this law is the issue of registration of foreign foundations. We know it was a very big problem. One part of the problem is reduced by the adoption of the Law on Associations of Citizens, but a large number of foreign foundations have been operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for many years. Their contribution and the development of democracy and civil society and some concrete humanitarian activities is extremely large and their status absolutely needs to be regulated by law and their functioning made possible. As far as supervision is concerned, a general provision is provided for giving the Ministry of Culture the right of supervision in this area. I think that's enough, because if it comes to organisations in legal entities, as well as all legal entities, they have to meet those obligations as a joke in submitting financial reports, all other taxes, contributions that legal persons must pay, etc. What's a matter of surveillance is a very narrow area in which the extent to which loans or foundations can actually operate on the basis of some of the unauthorized objectives, etc. So, I don't think it would be good, and it's not advisable to advocate the state's higher supervisory powers. As with the Association of Citizens, it is the founders who manage the responsibilities and foundations, in accordance with the framework set by the law. In the end, I'd like to say something about the very sense of employment and the very meaning of this benevolent act that we call philanthropy. Today we live in a time that is very common to us for a reason, it seems that the principles of once-exhausted principles of the market, such as wealth, profit, general sharp competition without rules, etc. and the only principles that actually enable the development of an individual, its environment or community. Of course, that is not the case and that the development of the market and the development of the economy is not enough for the development of society. I'd say it's no accident that both the borrowing and all these kinds of do-gooder acts have just become the most developed at the time of the most severe capitalism in the 19th and 20th centuries. People felt the need, in addition to what's called a market operation, that's managed by one group of principles, to sort of substitute for the community, by acting for other people. It just happened in both America and Europe and Serbia. The golden age of employment in Serbia is just the end of the 19th and the first thirty years of the 20th century. It was one move against selfishness, against greed, against haughtiness and all that is contrary to some human need to appear as citizens as social beings, as someone who deals and social affairs, because each of us received something from society, whether it was free education, health care or the use of some cultural heritage that was expressed through museums, through libraries, etc. That is why it was not wrong to say in Serbia in the 19th century – to be rich, it is the same as to be in charge. Rich people simply felt the need to part of what they had earned, one part that they could gain in a society where they acted to surrender to others. Of course, philanthropy is not exhausting only through the help of the rich, the philanthropy does not mean that you have to be rich in order to give society something. What are the potentials for the development of employment in Serbia? I think above all, the greatest need to preserve the old duties and restore their work in accordance with the will of the founders. I think that in this area, as well as in all others, the power of an individual example is what's most important. That's why I think we all experienced one example somewhere as welcome, and that was news sometime in 2009 that citizen Petar Srnić made his three apartments to Belgrade University, as well as when we read that an eighty-year-old woman, who wanted to remain anonymous, also made a commitment to Belgrade University, with a desire to get out of the leases, from the rent to be paid to that apartment, are scholarshipd by some successful students. I think that's why it's important that we preserve the memory of old employees, and not just declaratively, it's necessary to be a school lesson in textbooks and that all students learn about it. There are very good initiatives that fall into what we call social corporate responsibility today, but these are mostly ad hoc initiatives, very important and should be supported of course. I believe this law will encourage companies' corporations to incentivise community development in one more organised way and to set up foundations and borrowings. This law is now intended to create a legal framework. Of course, some other laws, such as the Law on Restitution, are also needed to encourage new responsibilities and foundations, but it is certain that this is a prerequisite for responsibilities and foundations to operate in accordance with a modern legal framework. My deep belief, in the end, is that in order to restore and develop our society, we need as citizens a lot of energy, a lot of attention and a lot of dedication to bring into our work for the greater good. I believe that the rich have a part in the role, that instead of some boasting consumption, one part of what's earned is divided and brought back to society, but also those who aren't rich should know that what they can somehow share with others in society.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46154	The word is from Ambassador Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46155	I have already quoted Eva Andric as saying in the first part of the exhibition: "We all die once, and the great people die twice, the first time they disappear from this country, and the second time their debt is ruined." Unfortunately, Andric did not write down, nor could he even assume that such an important ministry, such as the Ministry of Culture, would propose a law that in the opinion of many not only offers the first two deaths, but also the third large and direct death, the death of the state. Early works of figures as assistant cultural minister, who claimed Kosovo should recognise one, and because of violations of constitutional provisions, did not end up in custody, according to the old CAP, nor was it given a new CAP interval. We're still in prison for a period of time, so our culture will flourish. So in prisons there are young people with the Face, those who understand that the Serbian national interest is precisely the care of the debt spirit, which is characteristic of us, not the background carnivals, whose promoters are silicone blondes who are fighting for the preservation of Serbian language by recording insomnia sets of folk songs and games. Maybe all these events and we could treat it as a coincidence, which I personally don't believe, is that it's not a final blow in the form of a brand her bill on borrowings and foundations. What's new about that? The new exclusion of Kosovo and Metohija from the state of Serbia, as well as in charge of the area, is new. Ms Natasa Vuckovic said that Article 6 explicitly states that the objectives of the operation of the task and the foundation should not be contrary to the legal order, and should not be directed at violent destruction of the constitutional order and violations of the integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Great, we agree so much. What we will never agree on is the legislator's ideas on what makes Serbia's territory, because in Article 12, which, secondly, the property of the people in charge, is also explicitly mentioned by the AP Vojvodina, and there is no K from Kosovo and Metohija. But, of course, there is always a comforting reward, and in that already quoted Article 3, it is clearly made clear what is the most important goal, and this is the general objective of promoting and achieving European integration and international understanding. As I understand things, it means that this authority will never recognise Kosovo, but will conduct a dialogue on good neighbourly relations, not only because it has given Tito's honorary pioneer word to ice queen Hilary, but because the West has given Albanians independence, but also provided them with a de facto recognition by Belgrade. It is the actual translation of the floscule from which it is being vomited to the vast majority of citizens, which actually means - neither Kosovo nor the EU. It is that the proposer of this law is the Ministry of Culture, but since nothing is happening in the government without obtaining the signing of the prime minister and the mandate of the shadow prime minister, and in fact persons as president of Serbia, only Minister Bradic cannot be charged with directing the project capitulation, under the working title of neither Kosovo nor Europe. The current government is the policy-making that the EU has no alternative to causing incomprehensible political and economic damage to Serbia and the continuation of this policy is the collapse and collapse of the Serbian state. The DSS and NS supported European integration until Brussels openly sided with Albanian secessionists in 2008 when they publicly opposed such an EU policy. The latest public ultimatum of Brussels, which was conditioned by the change in the UN General Assembly's submitted resolution, is the EU's worst example of blackmailing Serbia at the expense of Albanian secessionists. To be clear, I have nothing against Albanians, Europeans, Americans, who in Serbia are doing what is in their national and economic interest. What hurts both me and the citizens of Serbia, who can hold everything together within one of the new Sabres, and yet will remain to breathe wherever they want, is that you are helping us to recover and enslave us. It's not philanthropy, it's misanthropy. That's how this government works. How much does it actually cost to exclude Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia, as well as the debt from the area? How many Gengies? Or did you get the state of Serbia to get rid of the care of Serbian responsibilities founded in other countries? How much have you received to give a privileged position to foreign duties and foundations that can be registered without funds without being obliged to provide information about their work or to be subject to control? Do you really think that Serbia's citizens will believe that the EU has no alternative by introducing profits in debt, which will eventually destroy the idea of universal benefit, whose convention is to liquidate the debt as a overcome form of charity? It is not easy when you are separated from reality, when you are surrounded only by yourself, so the good news with variable dates tells you the electric rabbit in the form of God Djelic, whom also the president of Serbia, possibly, can meet only somewhere abroad. He's not "Miles Against Transition", he's God in transit. It is not easy when you have the main reference for what Baron Minhausen says about Serbian politics, Mr "gistro fiyat", who is already being told: "How can we believe you?" "What a way, a word of honor." In his case, the honorable word is oxymoron. Europe has an alternative, an alternative is work, responsibility, the organisation of its own state, the implementation of reforms that are in our interest, to make our only Serbia happy, modern and safe. In the case of this law, it means not to allow the establishment of private-interested loans, which would also be privileged to control and provide information about their work, read – malversion. This also implies that founders cannot be excluded from the management of work and the costs that appear on their property, which has been entrusted and founded, as this, among other things, endangers their human and civil rights and prevents the establishment of new borrowings. Are they supposed to be making a parade, too? This means that foundations cannot be established without funds, and with a legal order to receive them from the NGO's budget, which in itself represents the strangest form of folk charity in the area of general goals. The founders are not protected, they are still deprived of their rights, and these rights are given to similar groups of citizens, i.e. management committees that have not been set up by a state body or association, but are themselves named and usurped by other people's property. In addition, what is the reason that the legislators, who belong to this code-breaking party with the pre-election slogan "Profits in front of Politics", ignore both oral and written proposals, objections and protests sent by the Association of Deputies, Foundations and Funds of Serbia, although this very association was formed in co-operation with the Ministry of Culture on 1 June 2006 and numbers, I have already said, 80 experts? Will you, Mr. Bradic, as well as the president of the party to which you belong, to the question of "How can we trust you" just to say "honest word" or possibly "honest young man's word"? I ask you to include in your directorial skills and the elaborated proposals that the Serbian responsibilities have made, and these include that there should be a state body that would care for the development of the responsibilities and the protection of the property of the founders and the management of the responsibilities in the spirit of the founding goals, which is particularly important, both for the responsibilities whose founders are not alive and for the others. In practice, this bill expropriates the founder's assets and changes the purpose of the debt, leaving the final decision, without any restrictions, to groups of citizens who accept all this after the adoption. In translation, it means that there is no guarantee of the state for the amanet, the legacy, the founding act, because the managers are entitled to change the objectives set by the founder of the asset, to give the founder's property under mortgage or to operate with that property. The bill advocates duties for a certain time, which is indeed a unique case in the world, and certainly directly contrary to the spirit and tradition of the Serbian people. Explain to me what a religious facility is, a school, a hospital, for a certain time? Some encrypted formation, a political party or a mind experiment by some silicon blonde who believes that "in" came from the word "insomnia," and a fura "fabula store" about "impression of impression" about every "phenomene phenomenon"? If you do not want to withdraw such a shameful bill from the procedure and return it to dorado, but for reconstruction, then at least keep in mind how you demean the Dean of the Faculty of Law Mirko Vasiljevic, who founded the Fund for Helping Students and thus made a personal contribution to reviving the employment tradition. Ask him if he likes the possibility of his fund being legally adopted to take over a group of citizens, such as pedophile, who, for some of his conditions of accession to the Union, will have to provide funding for the parade of proud children, and where else would he from the Student Fund? Ask, if you have a face, an economist retired Peter Srnić, who, with the consent of his family, wife and daughter, decided to give three of his apartments to Belgrade University? Should his condition be respected that these apartments are issued at commercial prices and that scholarships are paid out of these revenues to students, with students from Moravik County, a district from which Petar Srnić himself is encouraged? Perhaps he wouldn't mind if these apartments were given to some singing students, gymnasts around the pole or their political idols, although I firmly believe that this man was born in the town of Ostr near the Mosquitoes, working as head of accounting at the May 21st factory, yet he knew that the essence of the employeeship was true humanity and donation to the soul. About the founders of our country and the debtors as the saints of Sava and the holy Simeon of Peace, and not to speak. They pray to God for all of us, and especially for those who have forgotten Christ’s words, forgive them, Father, they do not know what they are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46156	Replica, Miss Natasa Vuchkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46157	Since I was directly mentioned in the previous presentation, and in order to prevent any confusion again for the inaccuracy of some of the provisions of this law, I must react. Namely, it's about Article 12. Article 12 is not a matter of any way to disrupt the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. This article only regulates the competent authority to confirm the underlying property, the minimum amount of assets required for the registration of the asset, and is said to be the competent Ministry of Culture for the purpose of determining the amount of assets, i.e. the assets established in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the authority and the Autonomous Province. It's about a job that's been transferred to the AP Vojvodina and nothing else. So no violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia is at stake. Simply, this job has been transferred to the jurisdiction of the circuit body for culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46158	You weren't well understood, were you? Here you are, MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46159	I really don't know what stopped the legislator then, when he introduced Vojvodina to bring in Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, given the policy led by your party's president, unfortunately a person in the role of president of Serbia who is quite intransparent, I have every reason to believe that I am not paranoid and that in this case, the paranoia of the units of mental health is. I may be paranoid, but obviously someone here is working on our heads. We are dealing with a person in the role of the president of Serbia, who is constantly responding to some ultimatums. Even in this law concerning culture, foundation and debt that are left for eternity, simply for swelling, there is no possibility of leaving out one of your statements of obedience to those who are your employers, which means – Kosovo and Metohija nowhere and in no sense should be mentioned in the territorial integrity and integrity of Serbia. Explain to me, of course it's property, whenever there's a problem, when you ask – where the problem is, the answer is always simple – it's money. Of course it's about the property. I just don't understand why you specifically mentioned in the text the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, not Kosovo and Metohija and the borrowings that are in this part of our southern province, I think about us from the opposition parties. For you it is obviously about establishing good neighbourly relations and you do not need to mention Kosovo's territory as an integral part of Serbia in the law passed by this government, but you will probably be treating it in the foreign ministry and in the framework of new good neighbourly relations, God forbid.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46160	Mrs. Kolundjia has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46161	Madam President, I would ask that the participants in the debate be warned that they are not allowed to insult and, of course, they are not allowed to tell the truth about anyone or the President of the Republic. So if someone thinks that in this Serbia, citizens do not know what status Kosovo and Metohija are in, that it is under international government, that Serbia does not live as a state in Kosovo and Metohija, it can be said why it did not live at the time when those who are now in power can also discuss it. I would like to say that the fact that the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction has been passed in this assembly and that it has been found to be the competences of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina relating to each other and to the responsibilities and foundations, and that this will be misused by the fact that it will be false of what is the official position and what is the representation of all the representatives of the state authorities in this country when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, then I think that it is an abuse of the speaker, that it is an insult and that it is unacceptable, every MP involved in this assembly would have to be warned. So, I'm just asking that all those who take part in this debate do not abuse the pay phone, do not abuse the subject of what their claims are that have no basis and that are in fact the most cruel insult and, in my depth, they are causing fundamental damage to Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46162	Mrs. Kolundjia, you've actually advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I must say that the fact that we have passed the Law of Transfer of Jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina on the one hand, on the other hand, the reality in Kosovo and Metohija, which is well known to citizens, is simply something I felt I should not comment on in view of the reality of both the first and the second segments of your presentation. If you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure and that the Assembly should plead? No, I don't. ) Mrs. Jankovic, I think we're clear now, Mrs. Kolundzija has simply expressed an attitude to your objections that have been a detachment from reality. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46163	Mrs. Hope Kolundji didn't say on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure she was given, so I refer to the same member she called for. I fully understand Mrs. Hope, and I believe it is very difficult and necessary to defend the man who is now in the position of the person in the role of the president of Serbia. But believe me, the citizens of Serbia will be able to assess what I'm talking about and I can only say one sentence – besides such friends, we definitely don't need enemies.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46164	MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46165	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill of responsibilities and foundation. We, MPs and MPs of the DS and MP groups of the ZES, feel that such a law should be passed. The old law on borrowings, foundations and funds was passed in 1989 at the time of the SFRY, at the time of social property, social and legal persons and at the time, only illustrations work, when in neighbouring Romania Ceausescu was still in power. I think it takes a good way to regulate the area of employment and benevolence. This tradition is present in the history of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, and I think it is very important that we reaffirm the act of giving for the benefit of the swelling, to affirm the social responsibility of both individuals and collectives and to return to the path of the greatest charities in our history. If it hadn't been for the people in charge, they wouldn't have Hilandar, they wouldn't have the Patriarchy, they wouldn't have Zich, the Studenica, the Sopocans, they wouldn't have Manasia, they wouldn't have schools, there wouldn't be many hospitals that work now, there wouldn't be Tekelianu. And these very benefactors throughout history, our biggest sons, have for decades set standards of conduct for the benefit of the people, for the benefit of the poor, the sick, for the benefit of the future, no matter the time they lived in. That's why I'm asking you to adopt this law, so that we can start the process of returning to the traditions that have brought great good. By loving one’s neighbor as their own employees and benefactors left their property in order to achieve social benefits and set an example of how to work for generations to come. We who come from Panchev, from this mixed environment, know best how important good understanding and cooperation is, how important it is to do good for the general benefit. The best example is precisely the personalities that have left a deep mark in Pancheva, as well as in all of Serbia. Just a short history of my city will explain why this is important. Just the greatest benefactor in the history of the Serbian people, the scientific Michael Pupin, the winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Literature, the personal friend of American President Wilson, one of the richest people of America then, but above all a great man and a benefactor, is an example to us. As a student of the Pančeva high school, raised by charities and debtors Tomas Andulović and Ignat Barevac, in his own time and assisted by contributions between the other and the SPC in the municipality of Pančevo, he returned to his people multiple. It is little today and time and only to count Pupin's noble works and help he has given not only to poor and hardworking students and students, but also to hospitals, writers, poets, artists. Among other things, Urosh Predic sent her a certain help for the rest of her life. The other man, also connected to Panchev, is George Wyfert. Serbia's top industrialist, governor of the National Bank, but the great benefactor of Belgrade University, museums, hospitals, disabled homes and the founder of a shelter for poor women's children at St. Anne's church in Panchev. Ilija Milosavljevic Kolarac, who lived and traded in Panchev for 30 years, we all know what a deep trail he left throughout Serbia. I have to say that exactly the great officials and the benefactors were, above all, personally, humble people. We have examples, specifically in Pancheva, that many who have made known the property for the greater good for the rest of their lives have been able to guard a shepherd's stick and a raincoat, not ashamed of their origins. We also have an example when Ilija Milosavljevic Kolarac pledged and gave great property for the establishment of the National University, that he sent a telegram with a few words. When asked why with just a few words, he says – the set is a telegram. They say, but you've given so much ducats. Just because he was saving, that's why he had to, above all, for future generations. We in Panchev store historical data, primarily memories of good done. If you come to Pančevo, in the collection of Serbian Orthodox church municipalities, one of the most beautiful collections of portraits of painters of the 19th century in the whole of Serbia, just behind the Mother of Serbia in Novi Sad, you will see today the paintings of the greatest benefactors and we are saving it for future generations. I'd like these collections to grow from day to day and expand to new employees and new benefactors. I'd like to say a few words about the legal text itself, because I think, as a graduate lawyer, this is a good law. I would especially point to Articles 3, 7 and 70. It's a bill of law. Article 3 explicitly states the objectives of the delegation and the foundation. It is precisely the achievement of the general objective, in the sense of this, of activities aimed at promoting and protecting human, civil and minority rights, promoting democratic values, promoting European integration and international understanding, sustainable development, regional development, gender equality, improving social and health protection, promoting and promoting culture, promoting and popularising science, education and art of amateur sport, improving persons with disabilities, caring for children and young people, helping the old, helping the environment, fighting corruption, protecting consumers, protecting animals, humanitarian and other activities which achieve general goals, i.e. interests. The responsibilities and foundations achieve general objectives and when their activity is focused on a particular circle of persons, belonging to a particular profession, national, language, cultural and religious group, gender or gender, or persons living in a particular area. Anyway, this law is good. I would also point out the provisions of Article 7 that, with regard to tax exemptions, it is clear in Article 7 that the assets established for the achievement of the general objective and the foundation are obtained from voluntary contributions, gifts, donations, financial subsidies, estates and the like, are not paid taxes established by law. I think it's a good thing it's clearly marked, so there's no misunderstanding. Finally, something that I believe is extremely important, and above all because of those foundations and debts that have been established long ago, which have been working and which have kind of been extinguished since World War II, that it is said in terms of these foundations and assets in Article 70 that the estrangement and burden of property that has been taken away from the responsibilities of 1945 until the adoption of a law governing the return of the seized property and the repossessment of the property. In order not to elaborate a member by member now, I find this law extremely necessary. I think it's a good solution that is now left out of a provision that has been valid since 1989 for state authorities to assess the overallity of the establishment of foundations and borrowings. It's now left out and it's good that it's left out. I think it is extremely useful that the need for a report is directly foreseen, that the reports be made available to the public for the business of the employees and the foundation. All in all, this bill of law I think we can judge as good. I call on you, as MPs, to support this law, to regulate this very important matter in the way it has been arranged in all developed countries, but above all because of the need to affirm the tradition of responsibilities and charity for the common good. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I urge you to adopt the bill in the Voting Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46166	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. He's not here. National MP Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46167	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, fellow Members of the People, I have read with great care the proposal of this small law, because its subject, its subject, is the duties and foundations, and it is about the deep-rooted Serbian tradition, the noble, selfless, benevolent, patriotic tradition with which we today want to establish continuity, because it raises and establishs the best values of a nation and makes the foundations of its cultural progress. I also have expectations that some injustices and iniquities will be committed to Serbia through the adoption of this law and will be corrected and removed. I have the need for myself, as many of my predecessors have said, to remind myself of the tradition of employment in Serbia, but to try and make some senses clear, because it seems to me that in the public, and in the light of the amendment, there are some ambiguities among us MPs. I intend, too, to point out some abuses when it comes to rebuilding Serbia's duties, and of course to point out those good proposals that this law offers. As has already been said, Serbia's second-in-command is the longest tradition of Serbian people in celebrating the Christian glory. From the Nemnjević dynasty, from Stefan Nemanje to Uroš Nejakog, from the Middle Ages, the ancestors left us with numerous monuments, churches and monasteries, something the most beautiful and valuable we have today. Some of these germans, then hrebljenovići-Lazarevići left behind, are now on the World Heritage List. In addition to the already mentioned Hilandar, Djurdjev Stupova, Studenice, Žice, I will mention those who are listed on the list of the world's most important cultural goods, such as Studenica, Sopočani, Pecka Patriarchia, Decani, Gracanica, the Mother of Ljeviška. Today all these assets belong to the SPC, i.e. is property, and through the protection service, through the state, or Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the state protects their authentic architecture, painting, fresco painting, icons, complete medieval art. These duties are an example, but they're not the subject of this law. Let me just add a few clarifications regarding the interpretation of the particulars of the body responsible for the affairs of the culture of the AP Vojvodina, which is mentioned in Articles 12, 25 and 58. It writes very nicely and clearly – the authority responsible for cultural affairs. As far as I know, Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija does not have a culture authority, unless someone is referring to the authorities of the self-proclaimed republic. Also, Article 44. Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina; this assembly has established that the AP Vojvodina can establish foundations and responsibilities. I hope we don't pass a similar law for KIM, or we won't pass on these powers to them. So, so much for the assignments. Unfortunately, the other employees who are subject to these laws we do not, by the way, have at KIM. We have them on the territory of all Serbia and Vojvodina. The borrowing in terms of which we are talking today, as said in the discussion, is being restored in Serbia in the 19th century. The new recruits are no longer nobles, rulers, but mostly merchants and two often mentioned, the richest among them, Captain Misa Nastasijevic and Ilija Milosavljevic Kolarac. Let's remind ourselves, Captain Misha was a salt merchant, and Kolarac was a pig merchant. Merchants were other large-time employees – Nikola Spasic, Sima Andrejevic Igumanov, Luka Celovic, Alexa Krsmanovic, Nikola Kiki and Djordje Vajfert were industrialists. Many of them were tycoons to be said in today’s dictionary. When Boris Tadic mentions the tycoon bridge, then in Serbia, it mocks and makes a mockery, but according to the number of benefactors, their contemporaries were not very kind. Already mentioned here is the fate of Ilija Milosavljevic Kolarca, who spent some time in prison, and his death was abandoned, but his debt still lives today in the closest way to the one for which it was founded. That's not the case with many of the duties created before World War II. Andric was quoted here, and his record of the double deaths of the great people and their responsibilities was quoted, but fortunately for Andric, we do not have to worry, his work is alive, the museum he is dedicated to and is an active asset bearing his name. Unfortunately, some of the people in charge remain just a name. After World War II, Since 1945, duties have been nationalised. Their assets are run by the state, apartments are moved in, business premises are issued, but trust me, as for some employees, it's not the worst thing that's happened to them, at least the money from that property and from those leases goes into the general register and is used for some of the general things, even for the restoration of the facades. I can confirm that in Belgrade, the largest number of jobs has been refurbished. Then, in 1989, the second in a row was brought to the postwar, the first in 1982, the Law on Intangibles, Funds and Foundations. Under the law, the Ministry of Culture issued a number of solutions in 1994, 1995 and 1996 to renew the work of certain employees, and they are granted the property to be used for the purposes for which the task was established. If that is not how it manages the assets, the examination of their operation may be initiated by the authority responsible for cultural affairs in the territory of which the employee is located. Since a large number of officials are in Belgrade's urban municipalities, and Belgrade's municipalities did not have authorities in charge of cultural affairs until recently, no one was to ask whether these duties were truly fulfilling their purpose. There was no one to ask the question, for example, or was the question unsuccessfully asked, was the employee of Alexa Krsmanovic, who also belonged to the Protocol building on The Terrace 34, benefiting from his income, as stated in the founding letter, for Serbian patriotic goals? Did the commission of Naumović Dimitri, the wife of Anka and son of Vasa, located in a magnificent and spacious building in Kolarcheva 9, serve to help "the congratulatory craftsmen who, as valid and without any passion or vice, have spent a century working their trade in Belgrade"? Is the founder Milo Vassic's intention and how to use his house in Prince Michael's 2? The will of Rihard Frelih, who left the city building in Macedonia number 33, as well as the will of Agnia and Mihajl Sredkovic, generals, with all the property in Takaviska 12 and two other assets in Užica and Vrnjačka Banja? I mention these duties, and I claim that these benefactors of the people have done more harm than nationalization. Why? Because they are all managed by an unidentified group of people who first came to the sense of restoring the work of the Partizan Monument Foundation founded in 1961 and died after the death of its last president, the great opera singer, Miroslav Changalovic. This time, the Foundation renews work called the Solidarity Foundation, on the Partisans, of course, there is no more words. The Management Board of the Foundation then makes a decision to restore the work of all these assets that I have numbered and the Ministry of Culture already allows the aforementioned solutions to restore work and allocate the property mentioned. The public is happy, justice is satisfied, and the debts continue to work, but where is the money? In the Management Board of the Solidarity Foundation, employees of the Foundation's administration are sitting. The children of board members and staff shall be assigned scholarships and flats. All attempts to track down managers and incomes from these duties remain impossible. It's one of the dark fairies of our reality. That is why I expect that the obligations arising from this law will rock the fame and wealth of some of the "renewers" of Serbia's responsibilities and make them bring to light the alleged good deeds they did, all under the auspices of the 1989 law. Why do I think this law is good? In addition to the above, I will mention several examples. First, because I believe that the existing borrowing and establishment of a foundation in Serbia will, not only look back on tradition but also using the benefits of these laws, be provided for in Article 7, and he says the responsibilities of paying taxes are released. I think it is a good law because the duties that have been renewed under the already mentioned 1989 law will have to comply with their legal acts within 12 months, as provided for in Article 68, so they will have to respect Article 47, which states that the property cannot be shared with the founders, members of the management bodies, employees and their related persons, and will not, according to Article 62, be able to carry out any action that does not conform to the basic objectives of the employment. Of course, very important and already mentioned, Article 8 and the obligation to make their work public and to deliver their financial reports to the Agency for Economic Registers. I also consider it important to be able to set up duties not only from natural persons, but from legal persons, and to remind myself that it would never have been the renewal of the work of Dosite Obradovic or the renovated house of Dosite Obradovic in Romania if it hadn't been for the "Hemofarm". Or if it had never been for hundreds of young art artists, writers would not have received help, scholarships, affirmation if it weren't for the Art Foundation founded by Philip Morris. As for foreign borrowings that were also in the negative context of the word here, just to remind myself that the University Library "Svetozar Markovic" would never have been built if the famous New York industrialist, who had the Carnegie Foundation, had not given his $100,000 in time to raise this library. This law, therefore, along with a number of amendments that I believe should be adopted, can mean a turning point in restoring and encouraging one of the most valuable traditions of our people, but also in removing injustice against the ancestors who have left us with their goods and property. That is why I call on my colleagues to vote in favour of this law, as will the parliamentary group that I belong to "For European Serbia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46168	I thank Parliamentarian Gorica Mojovic and I give my word to MP Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46169	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have really listened very carefully to everything the previous speakers here have said today about this law and I can say that I have been blinking for many, indeed, long time. I don't need any further comment. This law, whose proposal today is ahead of us, actually needs to replace the Law on Delegations, Foundations and Funds of 1989, and it is fortunate that you have not yet passed after the amendments and additions of the law, because this law is truly anachron and cannot be used for any number of reasons, and I'm just going to say some. And I'm going to say right now that I'm going to break the illusion that this law is good. This law you've made is not good and the law should be withdrawn from the procedure. Why isn't the 1989 law good? For a number of reasons. He, for example, edits three status-legal forms of borrowing, foundations and funds and distinguishes them by legal institutes that no longer exist in our country, or in our constitutional and legal system. Let's just say, we have social property, social legal face and stuff. Then, this law allows only a natural person, but not a legal person, to set up responsibilities and foundations, which is bad because it prevents the development of corporate employment. Then, it makes it impossible to establish family responsibilities. The 1989 law gives discretionary rights, and you love discretionary law, but this law gives discretion to a body that should register some debt, foundation or fund, and if it meets formal and legal conditions, you, however, do not allow it to be formed. Then, they don't even regulate the problem of stopping the work of the employees and the foundation. It doesn't solve a problem that's repeatedly been apostropheeded here today, it doesn't solve the problem of enlisting foreign officials in the register. While I am already a foreign employee, although I already see stories slowly being broken about, that someone has something against foreign duties, I have to say the fact that, although Serbia neither has a register, nor does it take care of it in any way, in Serbia for many years they have been working foreign duties and working, they give a lot of money for various jobs that are important to Serbia, such as humanitarian aid, such as sustainable development, poverty reduction, the development of institutions in local self-government and the like. What is a fact, many foreign donors have invested significant funds in Serbia, but their position, status, functioning, and especially control of their work for Serbia does not exist. So it's not regulated by law and it's legally unregulated. While I have already mentioned the issue of employment in Serbia, I must say this issue is very important for Serbia. When we look into the past, the Serbs were large in charge and left their family and how many important flows. I must say that today the largest and most beautiful monuments of culture are actually monasteries in all of Serbia, the duties that Serbian kings and emperors have left behind. I see today that someone wants to sell them out, especially those located in KIM territory, in the integral part of Serbia's territory and lead them under what someone is trying to call Kosovo culture. On the other hand, I have to say that since 1945, this form of philanthropy has been very calming since the year 1945, because Serbia has shown how much it cares about its assets, all of which have been taken away and taken away by the state, so that many, even political parties in my city, and from Valjev alone, are found in tasks that are not left behind for their operation. There's something else I have to say, and there's been a development of employment by 1945, especially in the first half of the 20th century. Thus, for example, Belgrade University was one of the three richest universities in Europe. He's been drawing funds from 90 funds and indemnities. His capital amounted to more than a billion dollars. Of course, in 1945, the state took all this to Belgrade University, and in 1997 it only returned some of it. For example, 11 employees and 20 funds are currently giving their funds to the Belgrade University. The fact is that today's tycoons are not so prone to philanthropy and leaving for eternity and generations. They prefer short-term action, and the state is helping them with some of the big taxes it has imposed on humanitarian aid from Serbia, therefore, Serbia. For this humanitarian aid, it is an obligation to pay taxes and to pay a 18% VAT, or 8% VAT, which is a pretty large figure, and mostly, those who might be able to do something without it being called a bridge of some tycoons, some ministers, some mayors believe that this is the way in which the duties should be formed so that they can call out who should give the bridge. The fact is that the state has not helped those who might or may not want to invest in Serbia and in generations to repay it in this way. There's something else I have to say, because of the checks, the state has made such a big tax. I must also say that this is not about assistance coming from abroad, but from Serbia to Serbia, that aid must be taxed. It's funny that if it didn't happen, if it wasn't taxed, there'd be chaos and abuses, which is totally ridiculous, I guess the state has a device that can prevent abuse. Although, for example, the famous abuse of Boris Staikovec, who was once a prominent member of a ruling party here, is something to be an example. I have to say that the Ministry of Culture has kept records and the register of all the employees so far, but I have to comment on that, because it's a list that needs to be made publicly available, it's not like that because there's no such list on the Internet that needs to be delivered to us by the Ministry of Culture. On the other hand, the AP Vojvodina has a record of 150 employees. Belgrade has some record, though not very large. I think there's a lot more debt than there is on that list. It's simple, if there's a record. According to the Association of Delegations, there are around 110 employees in Serbia right now, half of which is certainly inactive. It's got about 800 funds somewhere, a third of it's only active. Also, something I should point out as a comment or criticism to the Association of Regiment, and they don't have an active site, so where you're looking, you won't get that kind of information. I mentioned already that there is no register of foreign borrowings and foundations operating in Serbia's territory in Serbia. It may have corrected the new law, but we'll see what it looks like in practice. I will comment on something relating to the law itself, this bill that is before us. The first thing I have to say is that this proposal that is before us is counter-constitutional. Why is he anti-constitutional? The law did not cover AP KiM territory, it is still southern Serbia's province, still part of Serbia's territory, and you do not mention it anywhere here, as if it were not Serbia's territory. You don't mention any duties in this area. And I mentioned earlier, and I think I should say again because it is very important and because of some of our organs which and how we pay large rents abroad, in Paris, and therefore our monasteries and our churches to which we should be proud and which are in the territory of KIM and which are the responsibilities of Serbian kings and emperors are treated as a Kosovo heritage. The state has to react and the sea, for God's sake, to correct what you wrote in your law, or what you left out, that KIM doesn't have. On the other hand, you state the role the AP Vojvodina should play and that's fine. You passed a law against whom we were, but at least you acted here according to that law. So you're working against the constitution and you're breaking the Constitution. In Article 6, you stated that the objectives and functioning of the employees and the foundation should not be aimed at disrupting the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and the authors of the proposal violated this themselves because they excluded KIM territory. If this proposal is accepted, and there is no reason not to accept it, because here in this assembly everything that is against the constitution is accepted, none of the ruling majority consider it to be a problem, they will already change the Constitution, they announce it, but they advance the laws that violate it. So it is quite certain that then the government itself will do the most of its activities to break up Serbia's integrity. What I have to ask you, you know, there are a lot of duties in Kosovo territory. I ask the question - where will they register? Then you have a Article 3 among the goals that you have stated, which we can discuss because there are also those who have a measure and those who really shouldn't be there, let's say, there's nothing at all about religious tolerance. It is a problem, as you can see, that in Serbia and as it is expressed, lately especially because you are opening up on all possible fronts of the battle that you cannot win, so in Novi Pazar you have a really big open fire in the country, and no one in the government is paying attention to it, nor the minister of local self-government, uninterestedly says that there is no need to comment on it, nor any of the officials, so it might be interesting that you have entered that there are goals that are related to the development of religious tolerance. Also, as someone who truly respects all the assets of Serbia's Liberation Wars in 1914 to 1918, I ask you - why is this not one of the goals? These are the lights of Serbia's time, and there's no reason why they shouldn't be here. What you were announcing as the starting point for making a new law was to be well measured and defined by supervision and support for the development of employment. I didn't find any specifics in the law about how you're going to do it in control of this law. We don't even know how the state is going to work on the development of the employee. I just see that the state is uninterested because it doesn't even have an organ to deal with this problem. Since you're yourself saying that you don't have any authority in the law that you don't have a state authority to deal with your duties, it's a clear signal of what the status of the government's debt will be. Furthermore, what is confusing in Article 2 is that foundations can be established without funds and can compete to obtain funds from the budget and can deal with private activity. That also applies to the side of the debt. That's very strange. I just think you should comment and I think you should explain it yourself, Mr. Minister. You don't solve the problem of nationalized buildings in this law at all. That's what you fenced yourself from. I think there might be something to say about it, but let's do it the way you said. So, the DSS has a lot of comments and objections to this law. I don't want to leave time for my colleague to talk about it anymore, but I don't think the law is generally good, that it's not in the spirit of the employ, and the right to tell you, I didn't expect a better law than you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46170	Since Mr. Jugovic is not here, I give my word to MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46171	My colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a law that Serbia no doubt needs. It is doubtless a regret that at this time there are no more duties as they were in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and in the Kingdom of Serbia are in place, but we think that a law that is technically in the right way cannot lead to more duties. I simply need to think about something, talk about those who mourn and who say that once rich people in their people thought about the future and left generations, and now they don't, that we should also think about the climate when it happened in the past and what the climate is like when it comes to rich people. Certainly, the people who had not had, who had, who had, who had earned, who were patriots, who wanted to leave for the future. After all, we and the world now have some rich people, impertinently rich or extremely rich or as they can already be called, Warren Buffett or Bill Gates, who leave not family, but others, people, the state, in a way similar to what they were doing both Savior and Kolarac etc. But the business climate does not suit such a patriotic act and gesture at the moment. I'm talking about a free market based on private property. We have not yet passed a law on restitution, correct some major injustices from post-war, revolutionary and communist times, and simply until it is settled in a way that we at LDP say is a European way, in accordance with European standards or to be clearer, until we can arrange a society in which private property dominates, in which there is clear competition, open society, with a lot of competition, without monopoly, then there will be no people who will honestly earn money by placing the generations of borrowings or foundations. Simply, this business climate is what is missing so that there will now be more employees and people who think about the future or people who think about the community, at least as much as they think about their own personal interest. The times in which it was done were certainly more honest, but we will not fool ourselves, and large and wealthy people from the end of the 19th or the first half of the 20th century in these areas have often earned money with help or with the state. It's just that it's always been a good job to work with the state, with the fact that, unlike now, the laws seem to have been cleaner and better, except for those war profiteers who, in the First World War, sold and liquidated sand instead of flour, and so have been. Work with the state has been guaranteed, but there has been no party state like this, which, in the case of public procurement, we have been talking about this for three years now, but now there are data that fully confirm our thinking, that public procurement in Serbia is on state and local level about 4 billion euros a year, that the most conservative estimates are that it evaporates around 10% to 20%. Look at the size of that money. We basically have laws that we don't objectively respect. It will be a major obstacle to Serbia's faster walk in the coming period of our approach to the EU. Public procurement is a source of corruption, but it would not be such a source of corruption that the party state that survives through public enterprises is not so strong. When it is in this country, in line with what the LDP stands for, and what the Government accepts from time to time, when a complete reform of both the state and our system is done, for example, when all public enterprises are in private ownership and when there is only something left in the state property that is natural monopoly and which, as a natural monopoly, should not objectively be in private property, then rich people who will become richer in a fairer market game, in a game with European players, will certainly have more understanding than those who came to money in one transition time, often using the advantages or connections of the previous system, such as that of some former communist countries east of us, starting from big Russia. So the way money or honesty or the ability to make money is very important when it comes to what we're talking about today, something that is public interest above private. There will be more debt when this country is more democratic, when the economy is integrated into Europe, when there is more competition, when there are fewer elements of the old system in this, I am sure that people who make money in such a Serbia, of which we are not far away, and which, I believe, we all want to arrive in this room, will then be convinced of more examples of what we have from our modern past. By then, it will remain only that politicians appeal or racketate whatever they call those who are rich and rich will feel threatened because the state is attacking them, and there is no harmony between states because of the very rich and medium layers. We think that the foundation of every society is the middle layer. He is at risk in our present Serbia, from our point of view. On the one hand, we have really very rich people who, in transition times, have come to a great deal of money, on the other hand, we have poor people, people who barely make ends meet. We usually call them transition losers. And why there are transition losers in Serbia so much more than in other countries, the answer is very simple. Because the transition in Serbia takes a long time. It's been going on for more than 10 years, and the longer it lasts, the more there will be transition losers. If it was fast, short and efficient, I'm also talking about privatisation, everything that we had after October 5th as a chance, which because of what happened in the first two or three years after October 5th, unfortunately we didn't take advantage of. We're thinking of killing Djindjic and stopping Serbia on that flight, when we caught up with our neighbours. That's how it's gonna be. So the appeal and regret that there are now no people like Ilija Kolarac or Dealer Rescue and others, will not lead to the change of consciousness of those who have the money to leave it behind. No, building a democratic society and a competitive economy, in which the state will withdraw from business and allow people to develop their own innovation and their own initiative, will lead to rich people who will think about it. I'm sure in some future time, and probably because of this trend that catches or at least comes from America, and I can't tell if it will catch other parts of the world, especially Europe, I'm talking about the rich people who leave, let's say, the state and the people, not their successors, most of their wealth. Whether something similar is going to happen in Serbia. The basis for a stable, strong economy and rich people who leave their offspring, we'll make it when we bring Europe here. In the end, that note about people who, let's say, live in debt, and they didn't have a chance, I'm talking about apartments, buying their apartments, like we all did when I was talking about social housing. It can only be solved by correcting this great injustice, which is nationalisation after World War II, as we have long claimed. Now we have come to be reminded from Brussels that it is our obligation to pass a restitution law. Unfortunately, the law on restitution was not passed when the Privatisation Act was passed because countries that passed successfully through the transition, at the time of the adoption of the Privatisation Act, passed a law on restitution and, in fact, from privatisation, a fund was created to pay off what cannot be returned to nature. We didn't bring it because simply after the murder of Zoran Djindjic in those four or five years the government that ruled Serbia didn't realize that the essence of human rights was life and property and simply until we all reached a consensus that the four basic laws of transition from communism or a totalized system, whatever kind, in the free society of free individuals, are privatisation and restitution, like the hand and gloves, are a litigation of two laws. On the other hand, we have lustration and rehabilitation. We are talking about violating human rights and rehabilitating those whose human rights have been violated. We will not, as one would say, go out on a green branch, or we will choke, we will slowly go two steps forward, one step back, but without those four laws that we've advocated since our founding, this won't be a society of free people who depend on their work, their mind, society of equal odds, but certainly equal opportunities doesn't mean equality for everyone, because the collective consciousness we've been living in for decades has left profound consequences. We support this law in principle, but we warn that the law cannot bring what we would all prefer, which is to separate the rich from their wealth and leave their descendants. It is necessary to completely change the system and way of managing this country and open up the economy, end the monopolies, and then rich people will think about it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46172	National MP Nikola Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when the draft law on duties and foundations is examined, it is difficult to take away the impression that borrowing through history has shared the fate of the state itself. How did society develop? When society prospered, so did the borrowing. Employment was also a kind of laxative, so a mirror of the state of society itself. That's how we can say it today. Through borrowing, a kind of political message is sent, both internally and externally. It is unnecessary to speak specifically about the rich tradition of employment and the results that are truly impressive. So, especially during the period of the German dynasty, as well as in the period between the two world wars, and it is interesting that there are no significant data for this period that would talk about significant abuses in this area. In full terms, the responsibilities represent the treasures of a nation, and many individuals have sent a certain kind of message by establishing the responsibilities, and some have prevented their name from falling into oblivion. As more colleagues quoted today, Ivo Andric said – that a man can die twice, so the first time a physical death occurs, and the second time his debt dies. The key gain and reason for passing such a law should in fact be to establish a continuity of healthy employment, which, unfortunately, has been interrupted and can be said to have been suffocated and destroyed after World War II. Unfortunately, this law does not have the capacity to establish this suspension. The debate itself, i.e. The debate on the legal proposal did exist, but its range is limited given that much is said and little is included in the bill itself. The current law should be irrefutable and I think everyone has agreed on it today. There are many problems, starting with disagreements with the Constitution in many segments, such as institutes such as the question of social property, etc. Also, there is a whole series of ambiguities about quality monitoring of the foundation's work, so on the one hand, the Ministry of Culture was tasked with keeping one type of records, and on the other hand local self-governments were in charge of taking care of the regularity of the work of the foundations themselves, and there was no coordination there at all. That's why it's not surprising that cases have come up that have really upset the public, like the case of the Katarina Rebraca Fund. I think it's clear why there's been a significant public disturbance since it was a foundation dealing with the help of cancer patients. The legislative proposal also leaves out the full definition of the way we work on foundations and duties when it comes to our southern provinces of Kosovo and Metohija, while the AP Vojvodina is clearly mentioned. This is not surprising because the same trend was practiced by both the ministry and the government when the Law on Culture was adopted recently in this assembly. It was then not only abandoned but also systematically ignored intervention to integrate sacral art in the Law on Culture, which is one of the key testimonies of the presence of our spirituality in the previous centuries in the territory of our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. The legal proposal only the authority finds that it does not refer to kidnapped property. It is a key question, because the largest number of employees are actually taken away by nationalization and expropriation after World War II. This law cannot resolve and has no capacity, but it is necessary at the state level to implement the process of restitution. Thus, this law remains at the level of a limited document whose range can really not be too large. How strong the borrowing activity is and how practical it is to illustrate and some facts related to Belgrade University, which my colleague Milica Vojić Markovic mentioned earlier, and since it is indeed an impressive figure, I will mention it. So, before World War II, the Belgrade University received 90 assets and funds. At that time, Belgrade University was one of the three richest in Europe, and its capital was worth as the current billion dollars. Imagine now what could be done with so much resources and how much this would improve the quality of teaching at the university itself, because there would be the possibility that experts would be detained, that some quality experts would be brought in, and the best students would also have perspectives in further engagement, both at the university and in the state. Let me remind you, according to some data in the last two years, among the 30,000 young people who have left the country, 10,000 are highly educated. Some controversy related to this legislative proposal has been guided in terms of the necessity of the existence of private duties. So on the one hand there were reasons for and it has been said that in international practice it is very often the case. Those who spoke against it stated that this leaves room for certain abuses, money laundering and that it is not in line with the tradition that focused on a kind of general good, but on the good of an individual etc. This is also accompanied by the fact that the new foundation's legal proposal can be organised without material resources, and later these foundations can compete with the state to obtain certain funds. I think it's kind of a problem for the very purpose of the existence of assets and funds. The law also, and I don't think that this law may even have the capacity to do so, does not have an effective mechanism of control over the origin of money, which is the foundation of the asset, so it can later create certain moral dilemmas and problems for the users of these funds. Imagine someone who signed up for a scholarship from a fund he'd never heard of, but it would allow him the necessary education, and five years later it turns out that this fund was founded by someone whose assets were provided by criminal means. I think it leaves one kind of a stigma all my life to that person who was a beneficiary of the funds of that fund and I think that in that sense the state has to find a way to react and how to solve this problem. Also, the legacy of the founders in the management of the foundations has been excluded and I think it is wrong, because I don't think a third party will take better care of the management of the fund than the heirs themselves who set up the fund. There is also a question of when those who are in charge of the task do so unwittingly, what can be the consequences? I think that those penalties and criminal provisions should exclusively apply to those who have sinned personally, and not to, for example, deprive certain funds of funds, thus reducing their profits, and thus, the good that we want to achieve. The DSS parliamentary group has submitted a series of amendments and we expect you to seriously consider and accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46174	MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm going to talk about the draft law on responsibilities and foundations. It is a great honor and pleasure to me that one of the first foundations in Serbia was founded in Vrenjci, or Vranjska Banja, back in 1868. The foundation was called the Founding Foundation Society of medicinal acid-hot water in Vrenjci. The great and humane people of that time, yours and my countrymen, Mr. Minister, did not need such a massive and uncomprehensible law. That's why I'm going to read you a text that I believe we'll all learn from. The warm mineral water collection in Vrenjci was held in Kruševec on July 1st, 1868. It was an agreement on which it was decided to establish a voluntary association to raise Vranjska Banja. The meeting was attended by Professor Matija Karamarković, Serbian Commissioner Stanko Mutavdzic, District Court Judge Stevan Kovačić and Merchants Vula Radosavljevic and Stojan Brkic. From Triestenik came the chief of the cut, Captain Atanasia Mihailovic and Merchants Theodosija Petkovic and Stevan Katic. From Karanovac, today's King, the chief cut Captain Stevan Popovic and merchants Jovan Novakovic and Dimitria Crvcanin. At the meeting, Professor Matija Karamarković read a review of the call for entry into a voluntary association, i.e. a founding act in which the following was proposed: one, to establish an association of citizens who will be called the Founding Foundational Society of healing acid and hot water in Vranjci; two, that humanity and patriotism are the main and only motive of the association; three, that raising Vrnjačka Banje is the primary and only objective of the association; under four, that the need for the company to collect exclusively voluntary contributions from members and that the contributions cannot be greater than one ducats and, of course, are non-refundable; under five, that the entry into society will be made by the committees made by Matija Karamarković, Atanasia Mihailović and Stevan Popović. The event was adopted by the proposed founding act in general, and was created by the first such organisation in Serbia called the Basic Foundational Society of healing acid-hot water in Vrenjci. On this occasion, Pavla Mutavdzic signed up for the first member and added two ducats, noting that if the work programme was extended, eight more ducats would be added. At the same time, he wrote an observation that the voluntary contribution of members of society could be greater than one ducats and that such an contribution should be considered as an expression of humanitarianism and patriotism. The company existed for 15 years, i.e. until 1883, when Vrnjačka Banja went into state hands. We can see from this text that the formation of responsibilities and foundations was a role not only of wealthy people of that time, not only of merchants, but also of the chief of cuttings, or of people who were involved in politics. Mr. Minister, this is how the first foundation was created and, more importantly, this is how Vranjska Banja was created. I am deeply grateful to these people for the idea, both of humanity and patriotism. After the establishment of the first foundation, after 142 years, we will get a law where you define the objectives of the duties and foundations, with which I absolutely agree. Mr. Minister, in addition to promoting democratic values and regional development, fighting corruption, consumer protection, couldn't you have predicted both promotion and national values. Do you think we as a state, as a nation, have no national values that we should promote? Why didn't you see that through this bill? What are you ashamed of? Patriotism, which he promoted 142 years ago, meets Commissioner Pavle Mutavdzic. I am deeply convinced that Serbia's future is in the European Union. But don't think that this future is faster and safer if we give up our national values if we become faceless. What are we going to do to both Europe and ourselves, because if we don't really appreciate ourselves, no one else is going to do it for us. When you read a book, and when you come to a white page, an empty paper, you will not be kept on that page, you will go to the next one. As a citizen of Serbia, I would hate for Serbia to be that kind of white paper in the future in that rich book, called the European Union, but I'm sure we wouldn't want anything like that to be our friends in Europe either. We should not be ashamed of our national values, so we should forget them as you have forgotten them in this bill. In the declared objectives of the responsibilities and foundations, the truth somewhere at the bottom of the priority, you also predicted taking care of children and young people, although we are witnessing daily calls to help sick children, surgery, transplants, treatment costs astronomically, non-poverty, parental pain over the child's sick bed, huge, unspeakable. Is it necessary for this country to promote the value of regional development to be more important than helping sick children, or is it perhaps the responsibility of the architect of this regional development? Is there a more humane, more man-loving goal of the task and the foundation than it is to help our children? What about children with special needs? Should we build a Serbia in which we will remember children with special needs only in children's week, little candy, some pencil, crayons, heartache, promising statements made by politicians, not because of these children, but because of the media, the campaign, the ratings. What kind of message do you send with this bill as a state, when you, for example, provided for in Article 24 to register your duties and the foundation by the Agency for Commercial Registers and that the amount of the fee for the registration of officials and foundations in the register and other services provided by the APR shall be determined by the Management Board with the consent of the Government. This means that, in such a human gesture as the formation of a foundation or a government debt, they will still collect their services. How do you think you encourage humanism and humanity when the state is expensive to us and when it shows no signs of humanism, with a tiny gesture, by giving up its incomes when signing up the debt and the foundation in the register. With a legal solution like this, Mr. Minister, you show that we have human individuals who are willing to single out 30,000 euros in the establishment of the asset and the foundation, but we don't have a human state that would give up at least part of their income. You've predicted Article 5, it's a benign member, that duties and foundations are established voluntarily, I think this member is unnecessary, burdensome, because something that is not mandatory by law, of course, is voluntary, so I think that member should also be deleted. Mr. Minister, in Serbia, there has always been in charge, and the foundation, and donors and donations. Some of them are not a model of social responsibility because they drill into their breasts with a small or large donation, or protecting the environment and all the help of the media serving them as a tool in that promotion. Companies, not only with us but in the world, are increasingly using socially responsible business as marketing tools. Socially responsible business is often the way companies work, but it is also a way to improve the image of companies or the image of company owners. It is no secret, and research shows this, that by choosing between two products of the same price, the same quality is decided for the product that comes from the company that operates socially responsible. In addition to these examples, however, I believe that most of them have those other same initiatives. I believe that the inner being of each of us enjoys helping others and that we find it difficult to observe other people's suffering. But that's what this bill does not recognise and that the trust of citizens and companies in humanitarian organisations and socially responsible projects has been lifted, especially after the revealed case of the Katarina Rebrace Fund. I don't see how this bill will prevent any new case from coming up. Due to all the regrets put forward by the Serbian Progressive Party, Serbia's Progressive Party has submitted 21 amendments to this bill, but regardless of your response to these amendments in the voting day, we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46176	Nine minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Nikola Žutić has the word, followed by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46177	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, in the opinion of the SRS, this bill does not deserve to be adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, in order to correct such a law, I propose the separation of the institution of borrowing from the modern institution - the foundation, because these are, from the point of view of Serbian tradition and history, incompatible phenomena. The post is a Serbian historical, national and traditional institution that seeks to degrade and humiliate itself by connecting with the so-called law. a modern, non-traditional, profitable institution – foundation. With my amendment to the Bill's proposal, I proposed that the debtors receive their own special law, while the foundation, on the other hand, should be legally regulated by a special law on foundations, primarily because of the restriction and control of the mass functioning of foreign neoliberal foundations. Therefore, it should not be forgotten that the foreign foundations, which are now dominantly performing in Serbia, are mostly neoliberal analytical ideological orientation. However, there are also positive examples of the activities of scientific foundations, such as Michael Pupin Foundation and others. In the legislative practice of the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the responsibilities were under the Ministry of Education, not as today under the Ministry of Culture. Throughout the history of the 19th and the first half of the 20th centuries, most of the employees had an educational character. By defining the legislation of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, an employee or under another synonym name of a trust, a trust fund or an institution, it is an institution for which certain assets are assigned to a permanent purpose. At that time, duties could be established by natural and legal persons. The basic act and statute for all responsibilities in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia did not approve of the Ministry of Education in cases where "the purpose of the task is impossible, legal or morally unacceptable". The debt accounts were reviewed by a model accounting institution, the main control, at the time also called the Court of Auditors, which ordered the authorities to review the status of the borrowing property at the request of the authorities. At the Ministry of Education, there was also a commission council, as the supreme authority in charge. I wonder if there is a similar institution at the Ministry of Culture today. As far as I know, it doesn't exist. The board of directors had seven members: one state adviser, one cassation judge, one appeal judge, president of the first-degree court. The other members were taken from the ranks of experts and great benefactors. I stress this court hierarchy because it gave exceptional seriousness and legitimacy and legal legality to the council. The status of responsibilities in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was fully legally regulated. Thus, for example, the Law on Retrievals of 1930 was laid down by a detailed rules for the application of the Law on Retrieval. In the general department of the Ministry of Education there was also a special employee department which was tasked with overseeing the tasks not under the direct administration of the Ministry of Education, governed in the spirit of their basic act and statutes, and according to the Law on Delegation; then, the task of managing, in the spirit of the basic act and statutes, the natural Law on Delegation, the duties held under the direct administration of the Ministry of Education. Furthermore, it was tasked to keep records of the legal and factual status of all the employees, to collect, edit and occasionally print biographical data on the founders of the responsibilities, and to ensure that they were given due attention to their memory and others. So, the historical memory of the great officials was preserved by the publication of post office monuments, monographs, chronicles, and others. The memory of large debtors, however, seems to be leaving time to forget today, as in a very small volume, debt releases are being printed. According to the 1930 Law, especially according to the regulation, the department had to carry out detailed and precise control of the work of the employee, trusted funds and others. Furthermore, the department of the Ministry of Education was headed by the employee register on all the duties of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. So there was real control over control. I ask the question to Mr. Minister whether today, to the same extent, the Ministry of Culture, as the supreme employee authority, cares, or controls the work of the employees, especially those of the financial nature. Are auditors fully allowed to do their job? As far as I know, there is no departmental department or department in the organisational structure of the Ministry of Culture, and that should certainly be done in some future systematization. According to the 1930 law, the borrowing property also provided assistance to the powerless, unfavourable, socially endangered population. They had the advantage of wartime people with disabilities, official people with disabilities, and their children in the assignment of relief from the property. I'm asking if there's such a thing as borrowing today. I don't know, and it would be necessary for a large number of wartime people and other disabled people. Communist terrorism over real estates, so-called People's enemies have been experiencing full expansion since 1945 and beyond, especially over the debt property in Belgrade. The law on nationalisation of private businesses from 1946 was taken away, peopleally, all sorts of things. The law that would protect the duties was not passed at all, so there was a complete legal vision in the area, and thus total chaos. Unquestionably, they seized the assets that the owners, carried by humanism, free will, were leaving the will on the sidelines and the benefits of their fatherland. With regard to the responsibilities of legal and sublegal acts, only the decision of the Great Anti-Fascist Assembly of Serbia has been taken from the new communist authorities since 11 December 1944. With this decision, the Educational Commissioner, translated by the minister, has been filling in the debt administrations for Serbia, formally "in the spirit of basic acts and statutes of responsibilities", while this has been done in reality according to the communist assessment of moral-political similarities. The Commissioner could replace and set up a new administration in cases where he estimated that the work of the administration was not in line with the ideology and politics of the new communist era. In the Socialist Yugoslavia, educational university responsibilities have been particularly threatened, which have drawn their roots from the period of Serbia's Principality, that is, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The first years after the war have still been helped by students from the debt funds. For example, students from 1948 on the day of the Republic, 29 November, and the University Day each year were awarded prizes for prize topics and for success in the amount of 5,000 dinars. These awards, as well as scholarships and other types of material assistance to poor and successful students, have been given from the assets of officials and funds of the Belgrade University that have been inherited from the period of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. During the communist period, however, educational student debt funds were increasingly shut down because of communist conditions which were made under the excuse of achieving new general, socialist, political and socio-economic objectives, which were related to eradicating the old, or bourgeois, by decadent, civil or large-serb ones. According to historian Dr. Bondzic, the Belgrade University had a significant number of employees before World War II which were mainly used to reward successful students, but also to assist scientific work at the University. The assets of most indemnities consisted of also cash deposits or securities of values that were reduced to smaller amounts after the war. In the early '50s, the university still had 11 large assets whose property consisted of real estate. These were the responsibilities of Luk Celovic Trebinjca, Koste Elčić, Josip Jovanovic Glisa and Marija Rakić, Svetozar Vidaković, Draginja Katić, Ana Djurkovic and others. There were 124 funds at the State Investment Bank, which were used to reward student works, help poor students, student scholarships and fund scientific and teaching activities. However, the provisions of new socialist regulations have gradually shut down this type of educational employment. For example, according to regulations on the management of residential buildings in 1953, university officials had to go under management and use municipalities for the needs of new residents. The revenues from the buildings are no longer used for student needs and thus student employment has been shut down. The university's administration, which was also in charge of educational responsibilities, lost disputes before the state force in front of Serbia-Yugoslav's Supreme Courts, so the borrowing premises were turned into apartments in the possession of lawless new tenants. The new authorities did not have the slightest hearing that at least the debtors who had an exceptional social, educational and cultural purpose were spared from unsuspecting nationalisation. As the media say these days, the problem has not been solved until today. At this point, it is being updated due to the demands of the heirs, but also the dangers of today's so-called. the owner of the office rooms and apartments. However, as a result of harmonising with the European dictatorship on the need to implement a full restitution of property in Serbia, tenants whose parents have been granted housing rights are now trying to get out of these tenants' apartments. This also puts today's power on the line of trouble to solve the consequences of communist terror over borrowing property. Brozovo's legacy of inadequate nationalisation still today is pressured by Serbian authorities, as without complete restitution there is no entry into the EU of Serbia. Fulfillment of the EU will mean bankruptcy of the Serbian state. I ask the question – why Serbia 50 to 100 billion euros to pay compensation to property owners? Let's get back to business and foundation issues. As far as I was able to investigate, no law was passed until 1972 to regulate the legal position of Serbia's employees. And just in 1972, in the wake of constitutional amendments, a modern law called the Employment, Foundations and Funds suddenly appears. A new humanitarian socio-financial category of foundation appears. The title of the fund is also separate from the term of the debt, even though previous borrowings, funds and foundations represented synonyms. Already at that time, which, not to forget, and the time of the full state-of-the-art breaking of Serbia and the Serb people, the task is equal to the terminology of the foundation. In Article 1 The 1972 Law has been established to encourage and assist creation in science, art, culture and so forth. Thus, in the 1972 Law, there is a great lack of a socio-nationalist provision that the achievement of the objectives of the responsibilities and foundation is based on the principles of self-government of the working people. Even at that difficult time, the Serbian people were more concerned with the government's duties than they are today. This 1972 law established a special institution for the purpose of protection as an independent body. It was the Republic Alliance for Delegations, Foundations and Funds appointed by the Serbian Parliament. This Council issued approvals for the establishment, assessed whether the objectives for which the employee or foundation was established in accordance with the Constitution and the law were to assist municipal authorities in the affairs related to their establishment and operation. The legal position of officials and foundations in the Republic of Serbia so far has been, as is known, regulated by the 1989 Employment Act. With this law, the debt is fully equalized with the foundation in some members. The Republic Authority in charge of cultural affairs ran the responsibilities, foundations and funds, and the law was based on the concept of state, private and social property. The governments and NGOs of this new bill state that the law contributes to the resuscitation of Serbia's debt philanthropic culture. Furthermore, they state that they are the most responsible for the creation of this, to God's, modern law, Ministry of Culture, but also some NGO Balkan Fund for Local Initiatives. This is just weird. A number of state-owned institutions that receive money from budgets that seem unable to do their own job, are helping them with some kind of government organization. The advocacy of this bill further states that the 2007 law-writing process was launched by the Balkan Fund for Local Initiatives, one of the largest foundations in co-operation with the restoring culture minister, while all of this year's writing was done in order to contribute to the harmonisation of domestic regulations with European standards and standards. There has been no single borrowing in Serbia for years. In fact, I must point out that the 2002 Law on the Delegation of Duchy of Vojvodina, which is passed on to Article 8, in the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, as a trusted business, approves, in accordance with the law, the establishment of responsibilities, foundations and funds in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Now we see how it was done in practice. Believe it or not, only one employee has been established in the state of Vojvodina since 2002, according to the traditional Serbian model, while 40 foundations and as many as 125 funds have been established on the other hand. The employment is being shut down in Vojvodina, but the modern forms so-called "supervised" are progressing enormously. philanthropic aids, which are also simply blooming. Once there was a unique borrowing within the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and even the FNRJ. As I pointed out, the existing old and newer Serbian responsibilities have a general purpose for traditional values, for the benefit of the Serb people. To remind ourselves of activities in favour of the Serb people of Vuk's debt, Miso Anastasijević's inauguration, Kolarc's inauguration, the responsibilities of King Peter II on Oplenc and others. Unfortunately, today, as other colleagues have said, such sacrifice of property for the greater good by wealthy merchants or today the tycoon is simply gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46178	Sixteen minutes and 45 seconds used by the parliamentary group. The People's MP Zoran Antic has the word, and after him, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we can all agree that everyone is very proud of the history of our responsibilities, first of all between the two wars. There have been a lot of examples of the employee today. There were a lot of people we could be proud of. It was also an obvious time when it was appreciated and humanitarian, when nobility, solidarity, and much more concerned about the dignity of each individual in one society was appreciated. Unfortunately, it also seems to me that today we are also in a situation that the borrowing can be very significant and that in many ways it makes life easier for many people who are at risk, many socially endangered groups, because this transition process we are going through has obviously created great social differences and many people have remained in a situation to live with very little income, in a difficult situation, in material misery. The fact that the state often lacked the resources, enough funds to help all these people seems to me that it was necessary for all of us to interfere, primarily with the authorities, to prepare a law that would be much more comprehensive, which would be with a much clearer concept and with clear goals, when it comes to employment, philanthropy in Serbia today, and that it would mean a lot more to many people in Serbia than this concept that you have offered us today. There have been many objections to this bill. I can say that the SNS expected much more from this law, first of all, as I said, thanks to the employeeship, that the quality of our citizens' lives would be at a higher level, that to a much greater extent aphirms of borrowing than this law would do, to return to some moral values or to promote social justice, but we certainly forget, regardless of what we came from a social system in which these social justices were much more than they do today. I think this law, as I just said, has a lot of flaws conceptually. I don't think you've proved by this law that you have some vision of employment in some future period, that you have some strategy based on which the employment would develop in the next period, that this lack of strategy means that we won't have one culture of philanthropy in our society, that it won't start from the family, from the school, that it won't be part of our education, and that therefore the borrowing will not be rooted to the extent that we might have expected this bill. What bothers us most is that you didn't start over, that you didn't define what would happen to those duties that are nationalized, that we give a positive example of what we want with this employeeship, that we affirm these people who have given this people a lot in the past, that this is a positive example that we need and how we need it. Unfortunately, you have failed to interfere with the media to actively engage in this recruitment campaign. The media today are full of negative examples. What is the biggest problem, when it comes to the concrete text of this law, is the possibility of creating, or leaving room for abuse. The largest number of SNS amendments was precisely in that sense to fully clarify this concept of the law, to avoid any abuse, because any abuse in this area would definitely mean, not to say, a point of borrowing, but one big step backwards, when it comes to employment and philanthropy today in Serbia. What bothers us, too, is that you seem to have acted in law with one unique approach to employment, no matter what is much more layered than it looks at first sight. Today in the world, at least as far as I know, there are four types of employees. It's primarily this indemnity that comes from individuals, the borrowing of various companies. What is very important and what should have taken place through this concept to be much better regulated is that of the government-backed borrowing, the borrowing that involves the collection of funds from citizens, from all those people of good faith. In this regard, it should not have left any space in this law where the potential use of these funds would have come under question and where the use of these funds would have been misused. This is what is missing, the institution of public competition, transparency in spending these funds, above all, when it comes to state aid or when it comes to the borrowing of citizens' funds, and I think the law itself could have been much wider, given that the growing number of types of corporate employment, regardless of what might be corporate social responsibility does not belong to this law or should be governed by another law. However, it is increasingly waving in our society and can be a significant boost both in the development of human resources and in the protection of the environment and in all other aspects where the local community is given a better quality of life, where the buckle between the economy and the local community is established. It's just that, just like the SNS could blame you, there's not enough in this law and there's not enough in it that you can see the intensities that, in some future period, you might, in collaboration with other ministries, work on it. I think the media is a big problem, that they're completely uninvited, uninterested in the area of employment, as I said earlier, that the Ministry has to do much more if it really feels that we're benefiting from this law. As for tax breaks, it seems to me that you could do a lot more to make it more progressive, with some more serious vision of how to encourage borrowing. I believe that you would have encountered a serious echo, primarily the people of the economy, those who have the means they would have preferred to use when it comes to borrowing. In particular, as my colleague said earlier, we submitted 20 amendments. What we insisted on is that it is a statute to determine whether the debt is on an indefinite or specific time, or to enter into the law, that it must be a clear clause. With the current bill of law, I think you missed it. Similarly, to define our proposal in any way by means of a label in the name of the employee, which is, is whether the task is aimed at some of the general useful objectives or is in private interest. I think it's very important for third parties who get in touch with the task, with the people who represent it, that a much better order of conflict of interest. We are afraid that there may also be very serious abuses with both teamwork and dissatisfaction, as well as the Institute of Related Faces, and this seems to us to be not sufficiently arranged. All in all, I think, when it comes to foreign duties, it should have been a little bit more serious. I am not sure that all foreign officials are so well-intentioned towards our society, that they very often promote a system that is suitable for them and that they are logistic support to a consumer society that is so often systematically built, where we are both a people and as a country very often found and unaware that many of these ideas and pledges are not in the interest of this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46180	Ten minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. This concludes the morning part of the session. I'm setting a break. The work continues at 15.00 hours, according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for the word. The first registered speaker is MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Milan Stanimirovic. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon debate, and by order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the principled review of the draft law on duties and foundations. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. After that, MP Milan Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46182	Mrs. Comic, you won't be embarrassed that I'm going without the minister to announce this. I'm counting, heavy state affairs. What can I say about this bill? In the debate so far, there has been a lot of truth, and indeed there have been a lot of incorrect findings about the existing law. I'm glad that the legislator of this bill wrote a few sentences in an explanation. The first sentence that I am very fond of is that he admitted that in our legal system there were so-called. Social and legal and commercial legal persons. I'm especially saying this because of those experts they don't have, because they were pretending to know something. It is the first commendation of this reasoning of the bill. That's where I have to stop with the compliments and start with the recommendations, why it takes this bill to get back to work. Why? Because this bill practically legalises an existing situation which is illegal in practice. That's what I have to say. It's nothing complicated to understand. All the new solutions, the epochal solutions that are being built in, are amnesty of the existing state. Now this is where these pro-European terms essentially don't mean anything, which are just supposed to cover up one thing. In the follow-up, I'd like something small to play with those folk proverbs – don't let the truth spoil your good story. I'm gonna spoil your good story a little bit. What's this about? You see, today it is possible under this bill, of course, when it comes into force, that on the basis of names and last names and ID cards you will be the founder of some foundation. It's all well-registered. There's no means, there's nothing else. It is just enough to say that your goal is pro-European values and European integration. You have no funds, you have nothing, you will find the source of the funds in no time – Darko Saric, Chume, Miskovic, Karic, Victoria Group, all who need to "behave socially and responsibly". Now, please, let's just remind ourselves a little bit. Delta Holding has two institutions involved in humanitarian work. One is called the Delta humanitarian fund, and the other is the Fund for the Future. You see, according to the newspaper, Delta's humanitarian fund and the mayor of Belgrade have created a task. Where? In Belville, which he couldn't sell. You know why someone allows Miskovic to do humanitarian work through his institutions? The biggest contribution to the humanity of Miskovic and others is to meet their contractual obligations to their suppliers. Fulfill the obligation to suppliers, fulfill the obligation to employees, fulfill the obligation to the state and do not need anything to be humane. There's someone here who promotes himself like a lot of human beings, and he owes everyone else. How can he be a human man who doesn't respect the law? Explain to me. That's what Mr. Bradic will legalize with this law. With these big firms, we actually have funds to promote husbands, women. We have Karic Foundation – Milanka and all women from Karic. We have a connection here with the Krics. The lady's name is Ivana Miskovic-Karić. That's what you're going to legalize with this bill. That's what you want. To make them socially responsible. According to who? According to those who allegedly don't. Why don't they? Miskovic will not fulfil his obligations. Karic didn't meet his obligations either, and you were chasing Karic, and you are chasing Karic today. His foundation is doing a great job. He's doing a good job. You're even rewarding. I saw on TV the other day some Tihomir Simic, said – left hand, right forearm of Bogoljub Karic, progressing as when Nenada Chanka. The love of money, it's something extraordinary and significant. As it warms the heart to DOS, you have no idea. Today we've been listening to literary work on the subject of the employee. Of course, I don't want to put everything in the same basket. There's a real foundation that deserves attention, there's something that's been raised to a national brand, something that serves pride. Of course, it is recognised by the names – Vuk Karadzic, Ivo Andric etc. I'm absolutely sure behind something noble sounds like something that's been being manipulated by money. A team before the money, as some might say, is not subject to any tax obligations. When it comes to that foreign factor, I would ask you to listen to me nicely. Thanks to two State Secretarys writing a letter, they said on April 23rd last year, that courts have to stop with the execution of judicial verdicts, and the act of doing so should be to pay salaries, to return to work, etc. One of them is Free Homen. When you look at his development path, you'll see, all his duties and foundations promoted him in this country. The first is "IRI" - an international Republican institute, then an American task force for the development of democracy. It's a story from Paul McCarthy that three million dollars through the U.S. Embassy have given the Resistance to destroying activities. You know what happened to the resistance? I'll tell you now. Milana Jovanovic, designer, still. Free Homen, State Secretary, then skip these Cedines, Srdjan Milivojevic, here, Jovan Ratkovic, presidential adviser Branko Ilic, Srdjan Popovic, Slobodan Djikanovic, Nenad Konstantinović, Mali Neca, Predrag Lečić, Vlad Pavlov, and then we have these accusations where they are being accused of each other, what about those $10 million. I didn't make it up. I also have a text from the New York Times, which praises them for participating in subversive activities, all through the foundations, all through the borrowing. That part must not be touched by this bill. Let's see what the nomenclature and structure of the Karic Foundation is. Listen to the people, the Assembly, vice president, president, honorary council, council, board of directors, below the vice president are the foreign branches of Moscow, London, Nicosia, Vienna, Washington, Toronto, no Black Grass, no Pec. Underneath the director: a center for promoting family values, a centre for charities, a center for promoting culture and creation, a centre for promoting and developing science and education, publishing work, has an editorial board, the Karic Brothers Award. Then why are you chasing Karic? How can you not be ashamed? The foundation is doing well, according to the law, and you are chasing Karic. Under the Karic brothers' prize there are jury and board of directors. Do you know who the Karic brothers' prize winners are? Milos Vasic, journalist "Time", Bojana Lekic. Stop this, people. Stop this farce. Stop this farce. With this law, you're just legalizing something that's going to be laundering big money, huge money. I don't put in the same basket, not all the foundations, not all the debts. But if you've been told by the people who are taking seriously in charge of what the problems of the concept of this law are, then accept. You won't make much of a mistake. It's not worth it over these quasi-fonds and intreasures to launder mob money. It is not worth it to allow someone not to pay taxes and not fulfil their obligations to the state, for they are allegedly worth paying a particular attention because, as you say, they are socially responsible. How can someone who violates the law act socially responsiblely? How? Pay your employees, pay your taxes, pay your contributions, settle your obligations to the suppliers, so if you have any money left, be human. Is it possible, first you're going to be human so your sister-in-law can be filmed at some promotions? And then because you're human on the promotions, then we'll tolerate your taxes, tolerate your contributions, tolerate this, tolerate that. You've messed up the order. The great lack of all these funds, foundations and assets of the present is that there is no clear funding at all. You have, of course, placed more legal persons without membership under the new Bill of Deputies and Foundations, etc., but you have put them more into a system of ordinary legal entities that could provide funds wherever they turn. In my concept, it's completely abnormal for the employee or the foundation to turn to the state for money. In my concept, it would be completely insane for the state to be the founder of a foundation or a task force. You can't put the Wolf Council in the same basket as the Delta Holding Foundation. By law, you'll put it in the same basket. That's impossible. That you made that difference, so let me understand something, but you're not making that difference. You put everything in the same basket and someone shows their charity. How? Which, too late, settles its dues. What are you thinking about then? You remember that big sponsor from Subotica who sponsored Serbia's Basketball Union, the regiment, disappeared, but he couldn't even be a sponsor. I used the word "sponsor" here in the original sense because it was basketball, but with another word, I can describe anyone who pays a debt or a foundation for some purpose or purpose to be achieved. The other thing is, you put too wide in here. Nothing of the law should be prohibited, which is already not prohibited by the Constitution. You're moving on. You say here, correct yourselves, not to be confused, in Article 13 -- the right that the leaver had at the time of death, not at the time of death, but at the moment of death, it's the Law of Inheritance. You can see that these legs are written, not by the brain, as they say. But if you're putting in these European integrations, please, I need to make a society that will follow Nicola Sarkozy's fluids, to solve the Roma issue the way he solves it in France or the question of language or assimilation to solve it the way Angela Merkel solves it. I can write that in any founding act of the foundation or some kind of debt. What are you gonna say? Another thing, there is no declaration of compliance with European regulations. What did you avoid writing what it's like in Europe, the one you're after? Are those EU solutions? If the solutions are from the EU, why didn't you write a sentence here by mistake? This is in line with the French law, this is in line with the German law, this is in line with the directive, with this directive. It's not in the EU system, people. Don't let me read you about these quasi-organizations. When I saw that your bill of law was done by Vladimir Vodalić, it was clear to me, there is nothing from the law. Vojin Dimitrijevic, Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic, also has Sonja Licht, and she has some of her funds for excellence and all her patients of excellence, there they are at the Foreign Ministry. It's transparent, people. Don't go with so many transparent things. I'll tell you about the Resistance next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46183	From the time of the parliamentary group, 15 minutes and 10 seconds have been used. The word has a folk MP Milan Stanimirovic, followed by MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46184	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, we have before us a bill on borrowings and foundations as a new legal framework within which, after a long time, this matter should be arranged. We have heard a lot today about tradition and old Serbian medieval responsibilities, about the relationship to gender and swelling in the golden age of employment, at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries. Many say the names we heard in today's debate, such as Misa Anastasijević, Kolarac, Ilic, Theokarevic, Spasic and many others, but also many buildings in the old city's cores of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and other cities are a living witness to the excellent tradition of employment in Serbia. The memory of old employees is also necessary because of the future in order to develop a culture of well-being, affirmation of philanthropy and an altruistic view of the world. This is also needed after more than half a century of a nakaradic structure, such as a nationalised commission. As the esteemed colleague Milenic would say, the pure contraceptiveio and the adjective, because nationalizing the task, viewed as an act that left something that had been taken from the people again by the people for the same people. While I have already mentioned fellow Milenic, about his dilemmas about what tycoon means, when we talk about this charity, about rich people, about the corporate capital that should also be included in all this, perhaps under this one we might be able to subdue those who, in cloudy times for us in a formally legitimate but deeply immoral way, have acquired their wealth. What's this about? So I agree with my colleague Milenic, whoever obtained this by criminal acts should answer to the courts and take it away from him. In those times, we know that the stamp, like on the street, was 21 dinars, and in the banks of six dinars. My colleague Milinić and I couldn't buy a six-dollar brand, someone could thanks to the privileged position. The credit from the primary show couldn't get us and most Serbian citizens, and someone could. Then, import licences for various excise goods and other goods could not be obtained by us as most citizens of Serbia, but someone could. On this basis, he acquired the huge capital he owns today, in a legally legitimate way. He can't criminally gossip about it, but the question is whether justice might not be served, but by going back through some form of philanthropy, at least part of the people's wealth, even if it could appease the conscience of these individuals and do some work for the common good. This would also be in a way a symbolic end to the half - ages rule of those who, like Pantelia, left everything to themselves. A reminder of tradition makes sense only in the frames of the Tokvil mind that says – when the past no longer illuminates the future mind steps in darkness. Rich people today, as they once did, must feel the need to determine some of their wealth for the benefit of the whole society. Not everything in life should be installed in bricks, and even when you have done so, you can include bricks in the spiritual, educational, and cultural advancement of your country and your people. Some of the news provided for by this law has been repeatedly noted. The definition of borrowings and funds, the general objectives of borrowings and funds are prescribed, the unauthorized objectives are defined in Article 6 which is repeatedly mentioned, insists on the public work of employees and foundations, enables the legal functioning and registration of foreign foundations, allows for the great freedom left by the law on the internal organisation of employees and foundations. In order to achieve the basic objective achieved by passing the law, which is indeed to encourage the legal framework for the development of employment and foundations, as well as for their transparent management and business, the MEP Group for European Serbia and the parliamentary group under it will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46185	Four minutes and 35 seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word. After that, a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46186	Many of the great people who, during the rich Serbian history, created borrowings, thank God, are not what Ivo Andric said died the second time, because their duties continue to live. Despite numerous problems, despite the communists, despite the rakes some after the communists, etc. So, their duties and day-to-day exist and are alive. As far as the funds are concerned, the first fund with a capital of 250 ducats was once founded by the Duke Toma Vukic Perisic and Ilija Milosavljevic Kolarac in 1804-1815. Then there was Misa Anastasijević, who was one of the richest Serbs of the 19th century with Prince Milos. I'm just going to say for comparisons what it was like with duties and foundations once, and as it is today, to try to prove to you how absurd it is, in fact, all of what you are, or a good part of what you've done, in the draft law on borrowings. The Serbian dictionary says in one place that the biggest asset is to create a monastery or church, as Serbian kings or emperors did. Then the task is to make some kind of pot on some water, to bring water, to make a tap near the road, to plant or make a fruit, to feed the hungry, to water the thirsty, and to put on the naked. From this, we can see from just one sentence what was once the goal of establishing a task force. It is clear that at times people had donated their possessions, their money, their book collections, and their manuscripts, and the rest they had more valuablely to their fatherland. Once that legacy was in the memory of the victims of past wars, then sometimes in the memory of their prematurely lost children or parents, sometimes, as a colleague said and only in his own name. There are even data that Serbian peasants made their vineyards and their estates aware of the Serbian Academy so that it would do something with the property for the benefit of the people. The draft law on borrowings and foundations, as you presented it today, has indeed many shortcomings. As the minister said, it is for those who are thinking about tomorrow, as the minister said it is for those who want to protect them and encourage some investments, some borrowings, to set up funds for our culture. The new law, we heard from the minister, is in line with the new time. However, I would agree with the minister here. It is true that this new law is in line with new times. However, it seems that this bill is somehow too much, or at least it was the one who wrote the text of this bill trying to make it too modern. And in everything that's too modern or excessively modern, it makes money, and the foundation or foundation of every asset should actually be the goal that the one who founded the asset or the foundation set up. And the goals you mention in the bill of this law are a kind of negativity. So what you say is, with constitutional order, with legal order, with the territorial integrity of the country, with guaranteed freedoms and rights and with the particular interests of political parties. This may be particularly interesting because, as special interests of political parties, you only mention three things here. First direct participation in the political campaign, then raising funds for the election campaign and financing of political parties or some individual candidates. As if, Mr. Minister, only these three ways that can represent the particular interests of political parties. Where are the others? Where are the circumstantial ways? You can list 50 other ways that represent political interests, i.e. represent the interests of political parties. Furthermore, I'd like to say something, that is, to criticize the so-called. benevolence for private purposes. Be careful, when benevolence is done for private purposes, especially when certain revenues are directed to one person or when they are directed towards a particular group of people, it is not a task, it is only one obstacle way to avoid tax. Why? The task should be made permanent and not only so, the debt should be for the benefit of the society and not for the benefit of the individual or for the benefit of a particular group of people. I'll say something about funds without funds. The funds must have their own resources. There's no way to establish a fund without him expecting funds as God's sake. And with us, it's exactly the opposite. Certain funds are invested in registering a fund, so some small money, the fund registers and is then reportedly expected to attract money. The way he's gonna attract money and who's in front of the fund that attracts that money, that's already a story to himself. These funds compete, I'm sure your ministry is tens of dozens of projects a year, right, there is, and these funds compete with your or some other department of various projects, and it must be stated that money will be used for the benefit of society. But it's only one farce. It's just an easy way to make easy money with the help of party colleagues. Who are these people who come to such an easy profit? Believe me, it's just those who just need money to be honest. They've got everything else. It's only now that they get the money that makes them fair. Of course under quotes. I will also say something about foreign duties, i.e. on tasks that carry out their work in Serbia's territory. It's really a story to yourself. The rules governing the registration and content of the register of these foreign representations operating in Serbia's territory are down to five members, from 56th to 60th of the proposal. By what provisions, Mr. Minister, do you think you can prevent the involvement of foreign foundations in Serbia's political and social life? Or maybe that interference just doesn't want to be prevented by this law? Maybe it's even silently justified. For years, the rejuvenation of individual political parties from Serbia has been brought up by "foreigners". I'm going to mention the National Task Force for Democracy, or the NED, as we say. It is a foundation that was founded during the Cold War, in the days of Reagan's administration and which had a basic goal of suppressing Russian influence at that time. The foundation has been funding some entities in Serbia for years. For example, for years she has funded the Natasa Kandic humanitarian law fund. This fund is an informed enemy of all that is Serbian and what is national. Already mentioned by the IRI, or the International Republican Institute, heroes from the "Resistance" know that, Mr Krasic has talked about it, but with the help of this institute, the National Office within the cabinets of the Serbian President has actually done some action, so-called. a proactive public relations campaign. I think you all know that. The institute also does not hide that it has also assisted in its own time, he says, also in the Office of the President of the State, in action -- "A thousand young Serbian leaders", then in an action known as "Go out and vote". They were all doing it. The cream on the cake after 2004 is a statement by this "Iria" who says, "Our pitomat is elected president of Serbia". So, by what provisions of this bill will you prevent or prevent the involvement of these organizations? I'd just like to point out that at that time at the head of the Iri, this institute or their foundation was James Woosley, which is one of the former CIA chiefs. You know who they're putting in charge of these foundations. The US National Democracy Task Force has funded or financed Serbia's Beta Agency, the Anima Secretariat, the Balkan Investigative Network of Journalists, etc. These are all patients who took money and who received money from these foundations and from these institutions in the United States. They founded the World Movement for Democracy. On the board of directors of the movement, I don't know if you know, there was also a Czech fellow from Trebinja Igor Blažević, and sonja Biserko and her fund, Branislav Canak, Saša Mirković, and so on. Mr. Minister, I think you know all this and I wonder how this law will prevent interference in our political lives. Or their National Democratic Institute, the NDI, which also has an impact on Serbia's political life. Let me just say that the directorial board of that institute was chaired by Madeline Albright and Hillary Clinton, so you can imagine how many of our friends they are. Since the opening of this office in Serbia, they may have been with 30,000, as they say, students here have worked and said themselves that they have invested a lot of money in Serbia. You who have been leading Serbia for the past ten years, I will end up with this, you are the country's biggest employees, because you are the most in charge of the citizens of Serbia. You owe them so much that generations and generations will have to repay your debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46187	12 minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. After that, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46188	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a law on responsibilities and foundations. Whenever we discuss a legal project, it is very difficult for a person to understand why a law is passed, because from a discussion, if someone follows closely, they cannot really understand what the law should serve. There is no doubt that this law cannot or should deal with the list of debts, the ranking of the value of these duties, the state's relationship with the duties that exist, or what is called cultural historical heritage, because it is defined by other laws, and not these. What is important for this law is the fact that this law regulates a legal framework for an important area called the possibility for citizens to give something to the people, to the state and to the citizens by means of their own funds, to their donations. What is important for each law, and so on and so on, is whether the state, on the one hand, encourages those individuals or those institutions or groups to give their resources and in what way it encourages, in order to actually create a lasting value for future generations. That's what all MPs in this House should be interested in. So, did we make this law possible and create one wider space for all those who want to leave a part of their resources for generations to come? It is extremely important to point out that for the first time Serbia has a law to define that all those who give their resources in the responsibilities and foundations are exempt from taxes. It is not something that does not know the practice in developed democratic countries, on the contrary, in all developed democratic countries, one of the key stimulating instruments that the state gives to those who want to get some of what is extra gifts to society, or return to society, whatever we want to say, is to be exempt from taxes. That is why I believe that this provision in the law is extremely important and that it actually shows to what extent the state wants this law to open up space for new borrowing. At the same time, what is important for those of us who define whether we will support this law or not, and what we consider important in this law is the fact that the precise conditions that do not destimulate, on the one hand, are being established, but on the other hand clearly lay down the rules by which foundations and borrowings can be established. What I can say is that this law in a rather precise way, without unnecessary restrictive and complicated procedures, has actually laid down rules by which a task or foundation can be established. At the same time, it also set targets for which, on the one hand, loans and foundations can be established, as well as forbade those objectives that will not allow the establishment of foundations and borrowings. This shows above all whether the state is responsible for protecting society from those who, through means, would actually pursue goals that are socially unacceptable or even dangerous and harmful to society. In that sense, too, this law very precisely defined under which conditions, therefore, what cannot be the objectives of the application process, so to speak, for the establishment of a task or foundation. At the same time, responsibility is on the one who passed the law to prescribe a way of managing. So, the truth is that someone voluntarily gives a personal act to the management society, but society also assumes responsibility to regulate in a legitimate way those procedures that will not allow for the abuse of the will of whoever founded the foundation or the task and, in that sense, I think that, along with some amendments that have been submitted and which can contribute to a clearer determination of the right of management, this law has in a good way resolved this issue. What is also important for us is whether this law has prescribed a sufficient level of public work, on the one hand, and as a result, and responsibility for any possible abuse and, in our opinion, we can always argue whether a punishment is large enough or not, whether the benefit can be greater than the penalty prescribed and there may now be some difference in vision, but what is important is that this law clearly prescribed criminal provisions and for any attempted abuse. Here, of course, there has been a discussion that this law violates Serbia's territorial integrity, which I really find very underprivileged, of course, in a fundamentally incorrect claim. I believe that this is indeed a lack of arguments in the criticism of the law itself and that it is an attempt to shift the focus towards the debate on the content of the law to something that this law neither treats, nor can treat, which is a question of territorial integrity. So it is that what is mentioned here as an exceptional value in Kosovo, the exceptional value in Kosovo and Metohija, in no way has the state given up and in other laws concerning the protection of historical and cultural monuments, has clearly defined its relationship with this heritage and has clearly defined its obligations in the preservation of that heritage, so that I think it is malicious to try through this law to accuse someone that it has passed the Law on the transfer of jurisdiction to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which now has certain competences in this area, that it is actually a recognition of Kosovo's independence, the denial of Kosovo, etc. Here, too, the question is whether it is possible by this law to prescribe or limit the possibility of those who have acquired funds in an illegal way, or in an unfair way, to give their funds into foundations or to become debtors. Therefore, since there are other laws which define that all that has been acquired illegally falls under the Criminal Code and thus, thanks to the fact that this Parliament has adopted the law on the confiscation of property acquired illegally, that such property is taken away and that, in that sense, this law cannot deal with what is called a check of money. So, it is the authority of other institutions to determine how someone has come to the funds and cannot possibly be the subject of this law, and in that sense that observation in my deep conviction really does not stand. This law cannot define a way of making money that is or is not legal, and determine whether the money is clean or not. And yet another brief remark, therefore, I believe that the contemporaries of many in charge of their employees at the time thought that the tycoons, that they had come to money in the troubled times of war, had come to money by using certain circumstances. We can count a lot of them. For many of them, we know what their previous biography had to say. But the only thing that matters here is whether someone worked in a legitimate way or not in a legitimate way. He who has not worked legally is not the subject of this law, but is the subject of the Criminal Law and should answer. Those who have worked in a legally established way and have no criminal responsibility for the acquired wealth, in my deep belief, should be from the point of view of all citizens of Serbia and the interests of future generations, should be those who will return to their people and their country by being some future in charge, although perhaps their contemporaries will think that money did not come as best possible. But I repeat again, the way money was made, whether it is in accordance with the law or not, is a question for other authorities, not for the Ministry of Culture, and it is a question for other laws, not for the Law on Delegations and Foundations. And what I also want to point out is that it is extremely valuable that this law provides a provision that all those tasks that were nationalised after 1945 are prohibited to dispose of in terms of alienation, burdens on mortgages, etc., until the state adopts a law defining the status of nationalised assets, and I consider it a key member of this law, because in this way the state shows a relationship to previous debtors, on the one hand, and to the tasks that have been taken from other times, which one policy has taken from those, as my colleague Stanimirovic said, so on behalf of the people taken from the people. So I urge you to vote in favour of this law, because I think indeed, along with some amendments that I really believe will be accepted, it provides the necessary legal framework on the one hand, but also sufficient legal space, to encourage borrowing and giving funds to the foundation on the one hand, and on the other hand to protect what others in some other time have left us to be responsible for.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46189	Eleven minutes and 45 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is from Ambassador Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46190	Ladies and gentlemen, in preparation for a debate on this law, I have referred to a normative analysis of how other countries in Europe have regulated the legal frameworks of foreign NGOs, foundations, funds and borrowings. I'd like to show you which countries I covered when I studied. These are France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Great Britain, Austria, Belgium and Greece. I worked on this one study on NGOs, and it also fits into the category of employees, as well as foundations. Let's see how it's regulated in Austria. Austrian law distinguishes two types of foundations, which are regulated through two laws, which is that Austrian law distinguishes the law on foundations and funds and, secondly, the law on private foundations. Both private foundations and those established under their law can establish natural or legal persons, whether they have Austrian citizenship or not. What is characteristic of the Austrian foundations and their rights and frameworks, a private foundation is established through the statutes registered with notaries. They have a higher-level notary than the agency envisioned by this bill. When forming this foundation and determining the provisions of the statutes and what the statutes should contain, it must also contain a guarantee that at least a million Austrian shillings must be paid in order for someone to have a foundation. Unlike this bill, Austria here, in accordance with its civil legislation, has better regulated and prevented crime in this area. It is said that users of the foundation, first of all, must provide enough evidence and guarantee that it will be for charity. They are also foreseen that foundations can be established through the will. So, what is still characteristic of Austrian legislation is that the foundations acquire the legal personality by obtaining the consent of the competent authority, and private foundations are registered in a special register that controls the court and controls the functioning of the foundation by the state authority. These foundations in Austria are obliged to report financial operations annually, no later than June 30th each year. In addition, foreign natural and legal persons may be included in the founders and members of the foundation in Austria. Now you see, with them there is a characteristic of the following, only foreign faces or together with Austrian natural or legal persons. Therefore, the Austrian regulations and the legal framework foresees that it is possible to be a joint foundation. How is that regulated in Belgium? Belgium, one of the legally regulated states also predicts that the foundation can establish any natural or legal person regardless of nationality and citizenship, and the foundation is established by any decision of the founder in the form of an officially certified document with a fact during his life, either by his olographic will. The statute of the foundation must have the form of an officially certified document and contain the name and seat of the foundation, as well as other documents. What's even more characteristic is that in these legal states, unlike us, large roles in the control of foundations and funds have primarily been played by the prosecutor and the court. Secondly, all the foundations in Belgium are obliged to submit to the government the budget and the annual financial report, something that corresponds to the final account, within two months of their formation. What is still characteristic, Mr. Minister, these data, financial and budgetary, are published in an official messenger. In the case of Belgium, as predicted, that the foundation is no longer able to carry out the activities of the radical exercise has been formed, the court may disband the foundation on a proposal from the public prosecutor. How did Greece regulate that? The establishment of foundations is governed by the provisions of the civil code. Private foundations are governed by the Constitution and the law of 2000, i.e. the law of 2000 was nominated, but from 1939 this area was governed by the civil code. Any legal or physical person can establish a foundation in Greece. In order to establish a foundation, it is necessary, apart from the presidential decree, and a founding act. The founding act must be in the form provided for by the law, but they also allow the foundation to predict that the leaver through the will can determine that even after his death a foundation can be established as he wills. The Ministry trusts that the purpose of the foundation is to establish a foundation, and here we have no one to verify whether the purpose is in accordance with the law and whether it is achieved in a scale with the law. The ministry has a discretionary right to decide on the usefulness of the foundation, but its decision can be appealed to the State's adviser. In Greece, too, it is foreseen that the foundation can deal with the law of commercial activity, but only with accesory activities. The management of the charity is supervised by the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Minister, why didn't you predict here - Mr. Minister, I believe you have the opportunity to listen to this, if you don't listen to it - why didn't you in this bill, Mr. Minister, predict that the Ministry of Finance and the Budgetary Inspectorate are realizing that they're entering the state through foreign NGOs, through other foundations, where there's a crime of deep roots. Back in 20 years to take now and run one analysis, you'll see that these money was spent and that they were entering this country. What is also important is large and strong control of the foundations and funds left in funds. What is characteristic of Estonia, in Europe, is thought to be the best regulation of relations with the foundation and it serves as a good example of how they are founded, how they operate and when they can be banned. You predict erasing from the register, and in these countries I'm talking about there are provisions that say: ban on the work of the foundation. I wouldn't be wasting my time with my colleagues right now, I'd have three hours to show you now, I believe you'd have the opportunity to hear from this study about NGOs where the foundations are included. Mr. Minister, I don't know how much that would belong to your portfolio. Passing laws on foreign NGOs, Serbia has no regulated law on foreign NGOs. The law is necessary for Serbia. In this country, it burns whoever it wants. I don't know if you have or if it was the subject of your interest to ask someone how many foreign NGOs are operating illegally in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I know she knows that, what my colleague Natasha says, the BIA knows, but she should know about the government. The government should propose one law on foreign NGOs to prevent espionage, corruption, crime, anything that goes to harm the state. I already have one prepared text of the draft law on foreign NGOs. I believe, Mr. Minister, that one good law should be done, which would be to arrange this area so that not everyone can enter our country and do what they want. Just one example, take our lawyership and take the EU's lawyership, and as the Law on Lawyerry of the Republic of Serbia has been regulated, at the expense of Serbia's lawyership, it is allowed for foreign lawyers to represent and defend in Serbia, but our Serbian lawyers cannot represent in civil affairs in either EU country, nor to defend in criminal affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46191	13 minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Time is available to the parliamentary group for 9 minutes and after MP Sreta Perić, MP Munir Poturak, and he is the last registered speaker on the list of registered speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the basic assumption of a good Law on Delegations and Foundations, he usually sounds very nice, is the goal of human life to acquire and multiply the capital of the holy spirit, that's what Holy Father Seraphim said. In the context of these assumptions, I have tried to make an analysis of the law that you have proposed, and especially what you should know today is that the private interest is only private, not public, nor social and difficult to fulfill your intentions, I will not go from the assumption that your intentions were bad, but in Article 3, given that the debate is in principle, I will not talk much about concrete provisions, we will take advantage of the opportunity when there is a debate in principle and detail, but I need to make the support to explain to you all the shortcomings and actually one desecration, in my view, of this law. Article 2 which provides for the definition of the asset and for the fund is mainly a very acceptable Article 3. It's a bill of law. It defines to the most extent the programme of political parties gathered around the DOS and then today, and it seems to me that the colors DS and G 17 plus are particularly recognised. In this part, there is one part, it seems to me that Mrs. Snezana Plassic Stojanovic, or perhaps vice versa, was a state secretary in this ministry, but one part of her drive is seen, which certainly deserves support from the SRS in efforts, but it is not for the Law on Delegations and Foundations. You see what is fundamental to you when you say that the general objectives promote European integration, international understanding, sustainable development and regional development. I get the impression that the only way is and that Europe had no alternative seems to me from Vuk Brankovic to Boris Tadic, we've always had the EU or Europe has no alternative. This is pointless, to be found in the general provisions of the Employment and Foundation Act, not elsewhere. Mrs. Plassic, we agreed, this is not a matter for this law, and your efforts will probably someday deserve the attention of perhaps members of the SRS. The objectives and functioning of the employees and the foundation. You here in a negative way, Mr. Minister, you and your ministry define what should not be the goal of someone planning to do the job. That can't be determined. Legal nomotechnics do not know such a way of making, and if you were to fully fit into the EU standard, you put a title above each member, but in a negative way this should not be determined at all, but we define what the foundations are, what the funds are, and what the purpose of their achievement is, and not what they cannot do in any way. Imagine if you'd set out to define whatever fund or foundation that the goals cannot meet, then it would be some code to you, it wouldn't be the law at all. As soon as you put it here - tax release, it associated me with that you or someone who has participated in the creation of this bill, or this text of the law, tried and sought solutions, but it is certainly not contained in this bill, to find a way to get rid of tax duties, or to damage the state, and to make it a part, as modernly said, of tycoons. One of those, though, he may not be an extreme tycoon, on occasion hiring about 300 workers, when he wanted to build one church, to be her godfather, when he showed up with an enlightened bishop and asked for a blessing to start such a job, he asked him if he was paying off his workers neatly and what Mr. Krasic said, that he would make his suppliers at peace in time and whether he was asking the question of workers who should be employed whether they were going to give birth. We can't allow people like that to make loans and cut off the state, to cut off those who are making that profit right now. Today our Serbian society is filled with such, and above all, if not solely thanks to the authorities since 2000, and therefore this principle and the purpose of human life is to acquire and multiply the capital of the holy spirit, it cannot in any other way be better than to clarify, shed light on these provisions of your law, which have been proposed here in the congregation, deserve attention. Otherwise, with us in charge, if the Serbian people and the Serbian state have an extremely rich and long tradition in something, it is certainly in the responsibilities and we know that since the end of the 12th century there has been in charge of the Serbs and that by the beginning of the 18th or half of the 18th century it may have been a privilege for the nobles, rulers, kings, emperors, emperors, and later it became not a privilege, but perhaps a pleasure and obligation towards their country and those who have the need to be helped by those who had little more. I will certainly quote who they were at the beginning, and first of all, the 18th and 19th centuries in charge of Serbia. It's those who could make money, but not spend it, to gain, without wasting it, to take more than everyone else, but not to take it from them, but to work and organize their work so that they can make more money, so that later all that they've acquired is shared with the poorest and the powerless, with those who needed it most. Their efforts and generosity have actually been raised by Serbia. They are its true builders and true heroes, and not like you today, as counterpart Munjic said, that the largest employee can be considered this government that owes its citizens their mercy. Let me show you that's not incorrect. Now you take a loan from commercial banks and the finance minister says – she's happy to take loans from domestic banks, not foreign banks, it's good where the grace period is for a year, and the repayment period is five years. This government, at best for the government, has another term of office for a year and a half. What kind of employees are these? Anyway, I shouldn't be talking about this subject today without mentioning some of the employees, even though everyone knows it. They were giving and building for their Belgrade, which is why Belgrade today is a capital and a beautiful, European and world city, although your wish, and it didn't work out for Vuk Brankovic, so I doubt that you, too, will be introduced into such an EU, will not mind Belgrade being this beautiful. Ilija Milosavljevic Kolarac and Tomo Vukic Perišić, imagine, making a comparison with this and this and this and this, Vukić and Tom, and in common Perisic, handed over military official secret documentation to the services that both fought and bombed this country, and then they have something in common, but to leave you on the side. To them will the judgment of history and the judgment of their people judge. Vladimir Lackovic, Jovan Jovanovic, not the Dragon, but a doctor from Vlasotani, may be why we tried to install some of the provisions in this law. Someone said, it seems to me, Mrs. Kolundji, that they too considered these people to be tycoons during that period when they were creating and doing their duties. They couldn't and they didn't exactly think of them, because one of them was a man who was only 34 years old. His trust and his foundation were directed to treat sick and poor girls, and he was 34 years old, and there is a difference, we're not all born with the same abilities and abilities, but the difference is that some people wanted to do it and help, and some don't do it today. Imagine the Duke of the Meridian Bank? I can't imagine him as a donor, a man who for a short time, I don't know how long, maybe in two or three years, he made $11 million in capital, you say in shares, but it doesn't matter what he's into. I can't imagine him as a donor at all, probably neither can you. His donors are citizens of Serbia when he tries to rob them every day. There is no longer Mr. Stanimirovic. He says it wasn't available at some point in time for all the same credit assets. Let me inform you that in two days, there will be a dispute against one of the presidents of the association of producers of a agricultural culture. I don't want to do him any good or bad right now, especially because it's a court case, he was sued by an assistant minister of agriculture because he was alarming the public and asking for compensation from 300,000 dinars. (President: National MP, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used. I'm done. If all the problems of the assistant minister are 300,000 dinars, we can easily solve them, and he can help some farmers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46193	The People's Messenger Munir Poturak has the word, and he is the last registered speaker on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46194	Dear President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, what I wanted through this law to express is a value and, unlike some, I say that this law is excellent, because it allows us not to have a certain limit but to encourage institutions that can help charity, to encourage people to unite in some of the good interests of the citizens of Serbia. We have the opportunity to define through foundations and borrowings, through this law, the difference compared to the previous 1989 law, just because at the time of socialism and self-management it was possible for only natural persons to have the possibility of being set up. We're opening up space today, so I'm saying that it's great and that legal persons can start and participate in responsibilities and foundations. We can say that there is abuse, but there is abuse in all the areas that are happening to us in life, and the law is there that regulates the rules, and this law regulates the rules in which people will put their money, their time through foundations, and in charge of the welfare of all people here. What I wanted to compare today was how many Serbian and Orthodox culture traditions have, over time, shown various institutions, objects, and through Kolarca, through the Kolarca Foundation, through the monastery, through world heritage, Sopocan, Mileševa, Studenica, through Altun-alema mosque, through various founders who have left us a good tradition, culture, something that connects us well with past times as an example and the intention of future generations, and what we benefit from and how in some better time we do for some of our future generations. I was going to say that I can compare vacuums in Islamic tradition and culture with the trusts and foundations in this law. What is pointed out in the law through Article 2, in the sense of this law, is a legal person without a member to whom the founder has assigned a particular asset for the sake of virtue of the achievement of the general purpose or of the private interest or of the objective which is not prohibited by the Constitution or by law. It's the same for the foundations. What has to be said about vacuums, in the world encyclopedia in the dictionary on the Internet the vacuum means well that a person or founder of the vacuum willingly separates it from his property by handing it over to a lofty god, while the income or purpose of the vacuum serves the people. In the text, in the document as the most important act on how to use the vacuum. In vacuums, a document accompanying a particular vacuum, it says that the vacuum or vacuum is a means of making a good for religious, educational, health, social, traffic and charity. This is what our law in Article 3 identifies in which all these duties and foundations are directed for the benefit of people. Founders or vakifs have been regulated in a way that through the law the minimum founding amount is 30,000 euros in anti-dinary value. This means that if it comes to debt, the value must be much greater, it can be much greater, but that is why anyone who wants to focus on a particular object, an institution of lasting value and importance is welcome, because the task itself is an institution and a legal person. Those who participate leave part of their assets through that debt. Everyone can participate through the foundation and it is an uninterrupted process with a clear defined statute or act that regulates the foundation's intention. Through the vacuum it is defined that vacuums are not true processes but are part of a state policy that has encouraged high-ranking dignitaries, large civil servants, Sanjakbegs, dukes, cheha and so on to leave some of their property as a liability, giving a kind of spirit of life and good habits to future generations. What I have applied for is my sincere intention to try to send a message to my fellow citizens, because there are often misunderstandings between vacuums, with a document that should be directed towards a religious object and for religious purposes and objects that are of general interest to citizens, to the population in a certain space. We're in charge of bridges from what they say, on Drina's pot, in turn. I don't know how many of these duties, through Kolarac and other and religious objects that the statesmen have left behind their generations, through Gjurdje's pillars, through Sopocan, the Altun-Alem Mosque, and today it's a question of who's running these facilities, who's going to run these facilities, who's carrying the costs, who's taking care of the maintenance of these facilities? We know those who use facilities for religious purposes. We know that churches and other religious communities are in charge of those to whom they belong, but if there is a document in which a particular asset or vacuum is intended for the general good of citizens, and if we haven't regulated that by the time of self-management at the time of socialism, when this facility was socially protected, today when people are legally trying to return property to management, there are often misunderstandings in which there are various poisonings and on this religious plan and in relation to local self-government and those who are looking for it today, property that is nationalised. There is a discrepancy between the Law on the return of property to religious communities and churches, a law that should be passed by emergency procedure, restitution, or the return of property that has been nationalised and this law that we adopt, in a way, to regulate the rights, holders and obligations. Each employee will have to regulate their own way of providing funds, that after the formation, the establishment will have funds to maintain and pay the people who will maintain those facilities. There's something else I'd like to mention. In responsibilities there are also objects that are defined as cultural heritage by European standards and world standards, and that happened in the privatisation process to be somewhere on the sales list. Article 70 of this law regulated that it could not be the subject of alienation, nor the subject of the mortgage, and anyone who did or accounted for the job, this is an opportunity to say that it did not finish the job until the end, that in the list of property purchases of the company "Lipa" certainly did not find Amir-agin han, Novopazarska Banja, Bezistan, Han Granata, and the Ministry of Culture and the Agency for Privatisation were informed of all this and whoever bought it knows for sure that these four objects do not stand in the document. Someone bought the capital, but didn't buy the cultural good, or history and the significance of the value of all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46195	Eleven minutes have been used by the MP's group. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and I ask before concluding a principled search, do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have untapped time, want the word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46196	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, for the SRS, this law is unacceptable for several reasons. The first reason is that the law is incomplete. He is, first of all, phraserically, he is vague, he is in certain segments overwhelmed because we have certain norms that define in the legal system some other law and there is no need for this law to define certain things that are defined by certain system laws, and that primarily refers to registration, property and other things. I'll do that later in the discussion and note that. Furthermore, it is only in some segments in principle and incomplete. On the other hand, what's most important, in terms of the ruling coalition, is that he's anti-European. If you listened well to Jojic, he made it clear that it was resolved in most European countries. Namely, the duties as a special legal category must be, as defined in Europe, by a special regulation, and by foundations and funds, given that they have a financial and legal character, they must be defined as defined in European countries, in modern countries that have seriously approached this issue, and not as we do, as is evident from the very draft law and the arguments of this law, where we see that since 1989 we have not had a full legal regulation. Now we're bringing it in, but this is a law that certainly won't solve all the problems we have in this area. The SRS stands for the following, to withdraw this law, to separate the category of borrowing from the foundations. You've now evicted the funds for an unknown reason, with an indication that it's a natural continent belonging to foundations and funds. It was appropriate to regulate it, as regulated there, as regulated in Europe. Why and for what reasons you don't do it, it's unknown to us. The main problem is with the legislator, which has not established the public legal character of the employee and the foundation. Where's the state interest in that? It seems to me that you in the law have more emphasized the private interest that you have defined with more members in the law itself than you have highlighted the public legal character, the importance of these institutes in the legal system and clearly stated where the state is, what the state will do to preserve the tradition, to preserve everything that has meant to us in the historical context – the responsibilities, foundations and various other institutes that you do not mention here. Unfortunately, everything I'm talking about is gone. So I'm saying this is an empty law, incomplete, vague, with lots of holes. In addition, I have already mentioned in the law what the state authority must do, especially that body in charge of the legal system, for harmonisation of relations, we must, if we want to deal seriously, and you say – serious authority, you have to harmonise these regulations, you have to harmonise the rules, and the values that are general European, so to speak, you often use that, now and I use that term, you have to apply them here, install them, integrate them into this legal regulation. Unfortunately, we don't see him here. What about control? What about control in this area, especially in the area of the foundation? I'll read one part of your argument, where you say there is no regulation in the Republic of Serbia that regulates the registration of foreign debt registers and foundations, although they are many years, in fact, present in these areas. You are aware of the fact that there are foreign foundations, debt and funds and various other legal and financial institutes that operate, which are not registered here. Where's the state? Minister, you're in charge of this area. Is there a single inspection, has a single state authority entered into the work and business of these institutes? It's not. I'll read the government's answer to one of my parliamentary questions later, and you'll see that I'm right. For years, the SRS has been pointing to the invasion of the NGO sector. In this area, it's the most present. Here you admit, there are no legal regulations, how do these legal persons, how do these legal entities live? They have their seats, they have their current accounts, they have their own resources to work with, they have their own business premises, they have their own cars, they have their own property, they have the huge assets that someone touches them with, and where's the state interest? How? In what way? You close one entrepreneur who has not paid a tax of 1000 dinars, pays a fine, etc., a non-accounter, a trader who does not issue an account for 500, 800 dinars, etc., huge fines suffer these legal entities, and foundations and other foreign institutions, and also domestics work freely, twisting huge funds, using the weaknesses of society. You're aware of that. You just can't get in control of these institutions. Why? Because these are foreign institutions founded by foreign states for the sake of achieving interest, but not the interests of the Republic of Serbia, but the interests of foreign states and foreign governments. Speaking of funding and control, please reassure me and tell me, did you exercise control? I'll read you a government act right here saying there was no control. I asked the government if there was any control? There was no control over the use of these and the availability of these funds regarding donations. Is that what the Treasury was doing? I asked them. I don't have time to read all that now. They said they weren't in control. Now what resources are involved when we talk about foreign donations, foreign financial resources and international aid that have entered the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. My parliamentary question I asked in 2008 was answered by the government. The answer has been since 8 December 2008. When I asked how many donations were poured into the financial system of the Republic of Serbia? The government responds to the following – the total international aid realised in 2001-2007 in all sectors is around 4 billion 368m euros. I further asked how much of it went to the refugee commissioner's sector. How much of these funds are what is a foreign donation, what is humanitarian aid, what is the assistance of the countries of the Republic of Serbia, the refugee population, internally displaced persons, certain humanitarian groups that need assistance? How much of this was invested and given to the Commissioner for Refugees? Look what the government says with the signature of Vice President and First Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. He says this – The Refugee Commissioner participates in programmes to provide permanent solutions for refugees and improve the living conditions of internally displaced persons conducted by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the European Agency for Reconstruction through its implementation partners. The programme's funds for refugees and internally displaced persons are not transferred to the Refugee Commissioner, but to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the European Agency for Reconstruction and Governments of certain countries are also transferred to their implementation partners and overseeing the implementation of projects and financial control of the approved funds. Look who's in control. There is no Republic of Serbia. There is no control of the dedicated spending of these funds. Minister, you're in charge here and you have to control it. This government, this government, and your Ministry of Control, has no control, it's visible from this answer. Who are the implementation partners? Now I'm going to read to you here who the implementation partners are. These are organisations that act in total, I mean, about 30 NGOs, or foundations that work in Serbia, and you say -- they're not registered here. They're implementation partners. They're spending money. How much money does the state know? He doesn't know. Here's the next answer. On the 14th of October 2009, I received a reply from the government again with the same signature, saying -- total international aid realised, donations, from 2001 to 2008 in all sectors amounting to around 4 billion 725m euros. All this wouldn't be a problem if we hadn't heard from Deger, the head of the European Commission's mission in Serbia, who says at one of the consultations where he took part, that the European Commission has invested 10 billion euros in Serbia so far. Here's 4 billion 700 and a few million. The man said a month ago -- 10 billion euros. Who's got the right data now? Probably the European Commission. Do we now know where this difference of nearly 5.5 billion euros went in a year or did we get that? Is that pumped into our financial system? Minister, you must know that. You have to provide an answer because in one segment you control and you need to know, it's all gone through these organizations that aren't registered here. How did they get the bill? How can they spend so much money, that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia do not control and have no insight into all this? That it is a fact, it also says this information that in eight years, Serbia has entered the Republic of Serbia, according to your data, what the government has, the eye says, a man from the European Commission has opened 10 billion euros in the legal system. How? What account? Over the government account, probably just four billion and something. Who spent those funds? Is this sovereign state, this sovereign Serbia must know? Every modern state in the world knows how much funding is in that state's financial system, and that's probably the only thing this country doesn't have, because you don't hold any strings or anyone else controls financial flows in the Republic of Serbia. President Tadic has repeatedly urged tycoons to respond through one humanitarian vision and to help in various areas, especially in the area of social policy, to help through certain visions. He even said at a meeting, he was closed, but it came out in public, that there are very many unkindly wealthy who have acquired funds in different ways and that it is appropriate to respond. He suggested they build a bridge. That call was made about six months ago. President Tadic sent it on several occasions afterwards, however, what is happening? No response. We'll get a hundred sheets, that's all we'll get from the tycoon. See, that's why it's the law. It is therefore important for the people of Serbia to know what our ancestors were doing and how much they spent on humanitarian work, social giving, helping the poor, helping the wounded, refugees, etc. Where is the consciousness of a modern man now? That's what you have to ask yourself, that's what people from the government have to ask themselves that they've allowed individuals to create huge wealth. Why do these treasures not return through the form of borrowing and other kinds of humanitarian aid? Given the times, I have to look back at the area, through certain data that I have, in practice I have to show what a mess this is and how much the current government is in the area of humanitarian aid to refugees and internally displaced persons. From this list, they can single out four or five organizations that donated huge funds, from Switzerland, from Denmark, from Norway, etc. We should commend certain human people from these organisations who have allocated huge funds to millions of euros, given to the refugee population, internally displaced persons, helped the refugee population from Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija, Republika Srpska, etc. The government of the Republika Srpska Krajina, whose head I am, has had a lot of objections from individuals from the refugee population who pointed to the abuses that took place in these organisations that they shared, these were certain foundations of foreign representations, and irresponsibility, sloppy, dirty work and crime in those organisations, because these people had the funds they gave in foreign currency or construction material. To dozens of objections. How can one individual in modern conditions single out a foreign currency and give one to a refugee for building a house and not to another? Under what conditions is that shared? That's millions of euros shared. Do we now have a record of how much funds have come, who has shared these funds, who they are divided to, who should have won and didn't get? We don't have any data. We've only got naked remarks from individuals who've lost any help, and they're supposed to get it. Where's the state's participation? Where's the government's participation? Where is the participation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs? Minister, where's your participation? Where is the participation of the Commissioner for Refugees? You're nowhere to be found. There's a lot of resources being distributed. The question is, how much money has been recovered, how much has been alienated, how many in these criminal activities ended up in private pockets? It's about foundations that work day and day, it's about individuals who spend their resources day and day. Your obligation, as the Ministry of Culture, was to control these foundations, to register them, to put them in order, to exercise normal control and function of these foundations, but there's nothing. Most of those funds ended up in private pockets. How much of that was put back there, we don't know that. We now don't even have the slightest record of thanking these countries, those individuals who have allocated and given funds, because they are human people, because they wanted to help innocent people, because they wanted to help children who had lost their parents, wounded, fighters, etc. How can we thank them when we don't know how far it's gone, or how far it's gone, how much it's been taken, etc.? All of these are concrete examples. This is life. The law must suit life. Therefore, if you say in one article that you will, in a broken sense, sanction foreign representations unless they are registered within six months, and the other side has not stated in which way you will control and control their work and influence their humanity to really bring the matter to an end – there is nothing of the law, it is a dead letter on paper. This law is highly unacceptable for the SRS. Drag it, separate the debts from the foundations and funds, because they do not belong in normative and legal terms and character and cannot be broken down into one legal project. On the other hand, what we're telling you...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46197	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. Time is available for 10.00 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46198	I would like, at the end of this principle debate, to highlight some of the conclusions that have already been spoken of, but to sum them up in some way. First, I think it is not correct to mislead citizens about what is regulated by this law. Therefore, it is indeed necessary to stress that this law will not, nor can, violate Serbia's territorial integrity; neither can this law ignore our cultural heritage in Kosovo. It is very important that we do not pursue legal concepts and understand the difference between what is the matter of this law, as I said at the beginning of today's debate, and the matter of some other laws. Finally, I'd like to say something about the surveillance issue, since there's been a lot of talk about it. So I believe that the issue of supervision in this law is regulated, that is, the issue of state oversight, is regulated to the greatest extent possible and in the most appropriate way when it comes to this matter. There is control in the registration of employees and foundations, there is a measurement of the compliance of the objectives of the employees and foundations with the law, and there is a obligation for financial services and foundations, as well as for all other legal entities. So, in no way are they excluded from the control system, like neither other legal entities nor organizations. What is important once again is what this law actually allows. By establishing responsibilities and foundations, this law allows these organisations, for example, to work, to raise important strategic issues, national debates, in areas of the most important social importance, such as, for example, human rights, environmental protection and many others; it provides support and assistance to our artists, cultural institutions, hospitals, homes for carefree and old and many other important institutions in this society. I would also like to say that when this law is passed, as well as when all other laws are passed, it is always necessary to ask the following question. Of course, we pass laws because they are the necessary legal framework, but the question is – how and how will we apply these laws, which means – how will the opportunities that the laws provide, specifically this law, how we will bring them closer to the citizens and reach the depths of society itself. I really believe it is necessary to carry out a kind of campaign on the importance of philanthropy and borrowing. We in schools have a subject – civil education, and this is one of the options where we can talk about this important topic. I believe that we need to take greater care of the facilities that belong to the duties and that we need to give an even greater incentive to the employees through the tax policy system. It is important to affirm the responsibilities, therefore, of the welfare policy and the responsibilities and foundations in local communities. Here today were the richest in our society, and it has already been said that today is not the topic of how they acquired their wealth, whether they broke the law, etc. It is the subject of some other laws and works of other state authorities. As a society, however, we have the right to have a critical relationship with it and to assess whether we are satisfied with the treatment these people have toward society that has allowed them to gain their wealth. It is a legitimate subject that we can discuss today and when we discuss other topics. It is also important to say that this is not a law that treats the rich and the poor, this is a law that treats civil solidarity. This law allows every citizen to leave something to his offspring in the inheritance or to engage in some kind of activity and activity of the common good. I therefore believe that the most important message of our debate is that it is necessary and worth investing in the development and affirmation of the culture of charity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46199	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives who have not used their rights want a word? (No) The proposing representative has the floor, Minister Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46200	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was a contentious discussion that covered this area in a very complex way, from a historical approach to a legal, democratic, open dialogue that was led and proposed. What struck Serbian citizens this night, at least the central part, is an earthquake, and it is an opportunity to pay certain honors to human victims, to worry about all the material damage that has been done, but also to think about that particular region, in the royal region, there is a great cultural heritage, exactly what we were talking about. The Ziczica monastery is damaged, the northern wall is cracked, the painting is damaged above the door, but we believe that the static is not disrupted and that this monastery is able to continue to serve that basic purpose, and to be proud of us, as it has been in the past centuries. Sopocans have minor damage to the glass, and the student is fine. So, there's a stable situation on the ground, but that very fact that something happened with cultural heritage, with borrowings, is the question of how to maintain this cultural heritage in these times and in future times? Of course, our institutions are responsible for protecting cultural heritage on the ground, that the representatives of the Institute for the Protection of Monuments from the Royals and the Republic Institute for the Protection of Monuments are down there, and that the team will likely be even more complete in the coming days. Do we as a state have enough opportunities, the means to restore this important cultural heritage, protect and present it in the best way? That is the question that is the issue of all experiences, European, world experiences. The state itself does not exclusively deal with cultural heritage, nor can it do so, not even through highly competent experts in competent institutions. The Institute for the Protection of Monuments in the Kingdom is one of the parts of the Institute for the Protection of Monuments in Serbia and has a jurisdiction that is extremely large, from Sopocan to Novi Pazar, all the way to these parts to West Morava. So there are a dozen experts in the area who, with the support of all institutions, are working in Belgrade to protect these monuments. Of course there's always not enough money. This year, a part of the study was restored, after a few decades the work on the studio was restored, because it is estimated to us that if something is a cultural heritage, especially if it is placed on the cultural list of the UNESCO World Heritage, it is in itself worth it, and not that it is a huge job in itself. Experiences in the world and Europe are different. During our last meeting, here in this same place, in the Assembly, I was talking about that precisely groups of citizens and foundations in Europe and the world are taking over the role that local authorities or states do not have in these environments. Thus, in Italy there are foundations dealing with the protection of cultural heritage and which represent this cultural heritage in a quality way. But our experience isn't that far away either. We were mostly talking about a negative aspect of the funds here, and we forgot that the reconstruction of Hilandar we're doing through the Hilandar Fund, where this year is at the end of the Grand Konak reconstruction. So, business with, of course, state resources goes through the public fund. The funds are controlled by reports and, of course, the government and other institutions are informed. In such a strategy that we have in relation to the development of this area, the experiences that exist in the past years do not always have to be negative experiences. On the contrary, we had the opportunity to hear during this debate very positive experiences expressed in the Middle Ages, from the 19th and 20th centuries, but at this age we would have something to boast about. The Law on Delegations and Foundations is one required law, because the previous law was passed more than twenty years ago. Meanwhile, not only has the state changed, not only has the understanding of capital and society changed, but the role and understanding and understanding of the cultural system changed. If we're talking about the system, of course, you can immediately spread it to other areas. When we talk about the cultural system, it is essentially diverse, decentralised, dynamic, and it does not exist on some premises from 30-40 years ago. In this sense, it is very important that through funding or co-financing of culture we realise the potential in which our role, of course, will be held by states, but also by local authorities, individuals, prominent companies interested in investing in culture, in cultural heritage. That is why we believe that this law will give the necessary incentive to enable these important institutions to function better in the coming days. When we talk about the cultural system, we can also talk about parallel systems. I know that many of us will disagree with some of the comparisons that are possible, but let's say the United States for culture officially sets out one percent of the entire budget. Most of the funds are currently being allocated through the foundations and through the market that it is based on. I don't think that would be the happiest solution for our opportunities, given that there's a lot ahead of us to do and a lot of things we have to do in one centralised system, but the idea of decentralisation, which means transferring power, and that's what we're talking about, to some other authorities, is certainly something that needs to contribute to this important area. In the end, there were many questions and dilemmas about what to do with these individual foundations and private foundations that people set up. You know, that money that people single out for a particular foundation, they separate from their wealth and one of the basic human rights is that people have the right to enjoy their property. It's a European right, it's a thing that has no discussion whatsoever. There have been even some objections that have entered into the dispute of such a right, which I find completely inappropriate for this discussion of ours. In the end, with your consent, I would say that it is very important that exactly what I think, in the last address, there was a word to make a special call and that the state through the competent ministry or the competent ministries specifically include this important area that can give a very strong incentive for development. When I say so, I think the status of future employees should also be ensured, not only to mention positive past experiences and bright examples. I'll agree with you, not all the bright examples that we mentioned today came to money just by dealing with clean and beautiful jobs, there was blood capital, there was everything, but in history you're just looking at what's the effect of it, and the effect of that today is enjoyed by hundreds and thousands of Serbian citizens, and that's the most important thing. The situation in which our institutions, where our cultural heritage is located, is particularly important is to encourage the participation of the debtors, or donors. What can they get from society? First of all, moral satisfaction. This should be seen in the experiences of some other countries in the world. You in Israel, every institution you visit, you'll see the painted plates that are somehow a mark of something that is a donation of these Israeli relatives who live all over the world. These are important signals, important messages. Therefore, in any institution, this donation could be publicly marked and visible. It is very important that it be by the state, and I absolutely see you as state representatives, who will encourage donorism in the coming period, and thus we all share a message as to how necessary it is to happen in the next period. People who separate from their own needs and invest in the common good must be respected persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-03-0.u46201	I'm finishing the initial search. This concludes our work today. We'll continue work tomorrow, Thursday, November 4th at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Please make sure your card is registered in the system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure, which states that an extraordinary president, i.e. an authorised representative of a parliamentary group, shall have the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials and from the authority of which officials are headed. I ask if any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yes, MP Judita Popovic has a word.
