ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43002	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 84 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Before we continue the course of the session, I would like to inform you that the session of the Transport and Communications Committee will be held today, on Monday, July 19th, starting at 11.00 in Hall number two. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Slavica Đukić-Dejanović, Momo Colaković, Nikola Krpić, Munir Poturak, Bajram Šehović, Vitomir Mihajlović, Aleksandar Pejčić, Elvira Kovac and Arsen Đurić. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for the presence of Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and Zlatko Petrovic, Head of Justice, together with representatives of the proposing Snezana Malovic. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Fight Against Corruption (Principles) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and this is: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group DSS - 24 minutes; the SPS-JS Group - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Parliament group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I also inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Dejan Radenkovic – MP group SPS-JS, MP Milan Lapčević – MP group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Sasa Milenic – MP group G 17 plus, MP Ivan Andric – MP group LDP. If any other MPs have notice of an authorised representative, please deliver that we can notify the National Assembly. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. The mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group is MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43003	At the beginning of this principle debate, I would like to make several preliminary remarks on the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was jointly prepared by the Ministry of Justice and the Anti-Corruption Agency. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act is a system law governing, among other things, the issue of conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. I would remind you that this law established the Anti-Corruption Agency as an independent and independent state body, with the property of a legal person. Among other jobs, the most important competences of the Agency are: resolving conflicts of interest, keeping a register of officials, keeping a register of property and income of officials, performing the tasks prescribed by law governing the financing of political parties and initiating proceedings for breach of this law. Given that this law was passed in October 2008, and that it had started to apply since 1 January 2010, the need for certain provisions of this law to be specified in order to apply it more correctly and efficiently in the first months of its application. This applies in particular to the prescribing of the termination procedure in the case where the official performs two public functions contrary to the provisions of the law. In addition, it is necessary to supplement the very important provisions of the laws relating to the performance of other work or activity during the exercise of public office, the prohibition of the establishment of a company or public service during the performance of the same public function, the transfer of management rights during the performance of this function and the prohibition of the establishment of a working relationship or of business co-operation at the time of termination of public office. The proposed amendments will increase the effectiveness of the work of the Agency itself, through the implementation and application of specified legal provisions, and, on the other hand, those legal provisions which have in practice created certain ambiguities and different interpretations in the professional public. Of the most important newspapers proposed, I would like to point out that the circle of officials to which the law is applied is expanded, in such a way that the terms "functioner" and "public function" are complemented so as to refer to both persons and public functions in the bodies of companies whose founder or member of the Republic of Serbia, AP and units of local self-government, since the Republic of Serbia, AP and local self-government units can be founders, i.e. members of companies, not just public enterprises and public services. It also complemented the provisions on the Agency's competence by adding two new competences, which strengthens its position. According to the proposed solution, the Agency will co-operate with scientific organisations and civil society organisations to carry out corruption prevention activities and act on reports from civil servants in a procedure which determines whether there are infringements of this law. The provisions concerning the deputy director of the Agency, to be elected by the Agency itself after a public competition has been conducted between three proposed candidates from the list set out by the Agency Committee, have been amended. The proposed solution is more comprehensive than previously, given that the existing provision remains that a public competition must be held for the deputy director, giving the Agency's director the opportunity to choose the person who will replace him and who will be given certain powers, with the person elected from the list of candidates established by the Agency's Committee. The most significant newspapers are related to a member who regulates conflict of interest. The proposed solution gives the possibility that the official may perform more public functions to which it is elected directly from the citizens, without the consent of the Agency. All other functions shall be subject to the agreement of the Agency, with the Agency obliged to decide within the legal time limit on the request of the officials and shall, if it finds that there is a conflict of interest, make a reasoned decision. Also, the same member is complemented by the fact that it is specified which authority makes the decision in case the function of the function later ceased by law enforcement. In addition, in the same article, precisely because the law applies to a large number of different functions in different newspapers, the Agency's legal authority has been added to the Agency's director so that he can identify certain public functions that can be performed in addition to another function without the Agency's consent. Furthermore, provisions relating to the performance of another job or activity during the performance of a public function have been amended, i.e. a situation where a functioner already performing a work or activity takes part in a public function. The proposed solution is more effective than the existing one, since an appropriate mechanism is provided for in the event that the Agency finds that the performance of the work or the activity endangers the impartial performance of the public function, but that it enables the functioner to continue to carry out the work or work done before. I would also point out from the other papers that it is proposed that the report on the property of the officials be supplemented and the property rights information on movable items subject to registration by the competent authority abroad. In addition, it is also very important to supplement the provisions relating to a person on the basis of whose application an infringement procedure has been initiated. An explicit legal provision has been proposed that a civil servant, i.e. another civil servant, who is in good interest to submit an application to the Agency, if he rightly believes that there is corruption in the body in which he works, can therefore not suffer adverse consequences. Such a person shall be authorised by the Agency to provide the necessary assistance and shall be obliged to protect his anonymity. It is also proposed to adopt an appropriate sub-legislative act to help such a person get closer to him. In relation to the integrity plan adopted by state authorities and organisations, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government, it is proposed that the above plan also contains data on business or activity, or functions that the functioner cannot perform during the exercise of public functions, as well as how they are controlled. It is also proposed to introduce an obligation for all of the above bodies to submit, at the request of the Agency, a report on the integrity plan, as well as the obligation to submit quarterly reports on the implementation of the action plan strategy and sectoral action plans. It is proposed to increase the amount of fines for infringements provided for in this law. Those amendments have been proposed for the purpose of increasing the range of fines set out in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements, as well as the severity and consequences of the infringements provided for in this Act, as well as persons who may be the perpetrators of these infringements. The proposed amendments also regulate the situation created after the application of the law and propose a solution to the function of officials on the day of the application of this law, and do not define which public function they will continue to perform. These members shall establish the obligations of those officials to notify the Agency of all functions, as well as of the tasks or activities they perform and perform by 1 September 2010. Following receipt of the notice, the Agency will determine whether the exercise of more public functions, i.e. the performance of other work or activity, constitutes a conflict of interest. If it represents, the Agency will decide on a time limit within which a functioner is required to stop performing a public function, i.e. performing another job or activity. Finally, I would point out once again the importance of this legislative proposal to create a precise and effective normative framework that is necessary in the further fight against corruption, but also to create a system mechanism to prevent it. I would also remind myself that the fight against corruption is one of the main priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia and one of the most significant steps in the process of European integration and the creation of a modern society in line with international standards in this area. Just because of the importance of this topic, I expect that this legislative proposal will continue to be discussed in principle, and later in particular will be followed by a comprehensive and quality debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43004	Does the rapporteur of the Justice and Administration Committee, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? No, I don't. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Lasslo Varga, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. Do the MPs Radica Jocic, Momir Markovic and Slobodan Samardzic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration, want a word? The word has a folk letter, Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on European Integration, I have issued an opinion and I want to say the following. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which the Assembly adopted in October 2008, which has been in place since January 2010, has shown clear shortcomings and inapplicability in practice in the first months of its application. In an explanation related to the constitutional basis for the adoption of amendments and additions to this law, it is as if at the time of the adoption of this law it was not this one, but another constitution. Of course, it's the same constitution, but the government is failing at all, and I don't think it's going to work with these amendments and the additions to the law, to please everyone who's important to this or that coalition, which in the locale, which is in the Republic, and they're eager for the authorities and of course the powers. Instead of clarifying some of the terms, the bill remains unclear, especially in the provisions on conflict of interest, for example – the political parties are added a term – other political entities, and in the government's explanation it still stands, in addition, that the thoughts of groups of citizens participating in the elections are still standing – and so on, which still leaves the possibility for various interpretations. With regard to the authority of the Director of the Agency, it shall give opinions and instructions for the implementation of this law. Is it not possible to make a law that will be clear and precise that no one will have to subsequently interpret it and give opinions. Of course, again, I think it's in order to leave an opportunity for different interpretations. In addition, the law is abundant in terms that do not contribute to precision, but rather on the contrary. For example, the term – extremely, i.e. the terms that are very often applied, then the term -of particular categories of functionors, and nowhere does it specify which categories of functionors are. Article 13 states that the Agency may, at the request of its officials, give consent to other tasks, i.e. activities. I get the impression that the law is only written for certain people, who, based on it, will be able to give interpretations as needed, both when and as to whom it suits. In addition to this, I'm going to set an example. The Ministry of Justice addressed one assembly of the municipality, interpreting those provisions of the law regarding parliamentary mandates, as follows: "By interpreting the above-mentioned provisions of the law, we believe that the decision to appeal the decisions of the local self-government assembly on the termination of the committee's term of office, as well as the confirmation of the mandate of the new committee, is really in charge of the Administrative Court." The same assembly of municipalities addressed the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government with the following words: "The administrative court, as a court of special jurisdiction, decides in administrative disputes and is responsible for resolving complaints about decisions of the local self-government unit's decisions regarding the mandates of the committees within the meaning of Article 49. The law on local elections." In addition, in addition to these two ministries that have addressed the local self-government, the Supreme Court in the same municipality has reached a verdict repealing the decisions on the termination of the mandate of the committee and giving the possibility to assign the mandates to other committees. Is it possible to once pass a law that will be unequivocal and clear, which won't have to interpret one, the other, third ministry, because I think it's the only way to avoid the possibility of corruption at all, and not that the whole state is doing it alone?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43006	The word has been issued by MP Momir Markovic, who also issued an opinion at the Committee's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43007	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all political parties in this House, as well as those who are not parliamentary, give a key place in their programmes to fight corruption and crime. All governments of the bulldozer revolution, and all the bells, said they were going to fight corruption and crime at the moment. We recently passed the Anti-Corruption Act and are now adopting amendments and additions. What changed in the meantime? Nothing in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, works as well as corruption and crime. Remember the recent local elections in Arangelovac, Bor and several other cities, citizens are corrupt, voters are corrupt, bringing them money, packages, mobile phones. Even in Arangelovac, the goats were promised, gynecological examinations, etc., to buy the voice. On the other hand, it is a public secret that the large sums of money in this country, in addition to all the laws we have, including that anti-corruption and crime law, are turning around and it's just a shame. A recent affair at the Institute of Oncology has clearly and unequivocally shown to what extent professionals, people in charge of safeguarding the health of the nation, can go low. How much of an affair that hasn't been discovered. I remind you that for years the SRS has been pointing out incredible affairs with incredible amounts of money and it's always been to cover the affair, after three days the previous one forgets, because some third one is discovered, etc. What happens in the end? What's always happened, little criminals get their heads taken off and big hats. I remind you that only in the area of the boulevard privatisation of states has been robbed by a few hundred billion euros and nothing at all. I remind you that the SRS, president of the SRS parliamentary group, has been pointing for months to an incredible crime, a corruption that has taken hold of only two large companies, "Luka Belgrade", involving several hundred hectares of the most attractive building land, and "Evening news". What happened? The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. Waiting for some new affair to be discovered and then these affairs to be covered. The SRS believes that these things cannot be resolved only by passing laws, by adopting amendments and by making amendments and by supplementing the laws and amendments of the law, etc., but by applying laws that exist and finally those that may be guarded by the police today, of course, that the police continue to guard them, but to put them in a cold and dark place, so that they no longer break down and that they do not spoil the nation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43008	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Sasa Milenic is registered in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43009	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, at this point I am speaking with a sense of obligation and public duty towards the item of the agenda. First, because my party has been very committed and explicitly involved in building political messages and communication through public information funds, as well as in the early of this year, with the requirement to amend the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and here we are pleased to accept the fact that the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Agency is on the agenda. For what? First of all, it should be made clear that my party, Together for the Forest and Parliament Group G 17 plus in general, as well as the United Regions of Serbia that we are building and forming together, are particularly committed to the affirmation and development of those values which will support the anti-corruption character of our society and which will lead to its emancipation and in this important respect of the life of an open civil society. That is why we have supported the law in question that we are changing today. However, the remarks we have made can be explained, including our request, in several ways. We did so from an external point of view compared to the very text of the law, from the point of view of the values that seemed to us to be higher and more significant, fundamental values of a democratic society, which the interpretation and application of this law questioned and threatened. It is possible, however, to open the topic from the point of view of the alleged criticism of the law itself. I notice that neither in the means of public information nor in the professional public, if you think retrospectally you will see that there has been no internal criticism of this law, from the point of view of an in-depth analysis of its positive content. For what? So, when I said that we are very supportive of the values that the law should protect, we are not inclined to call in a single call, to a hickey, to a holy war against corruption, to recognize healthy socially encouraging behavior. Psychologists know the concept of negative identity. One psychoanalyst Ericsson, for example, was involved in the families of alcoholics by developing negative identity traits, so let's say, children who had an accident to suffer the abuse of an alcoholic father are often beginning to build anti-alcoholic identity traits. And unlike one healthy, unburdened with alcoholism as a serious behavioral disease, you get one rigid behavior and identity traits that are burdened with alcoholism. What's the problem with a negative, even such an anti-alcoholic identity? He quickly shoots, which is what a large number of alcoholics are just recruited from the primary anti-alcoholic structured personality. In that sense, the anti-corruption culture has one note in it, which this law carries, rigidity, bureaucratism and quite moderately, I will say, the Commissioner's reading of this issue. What do I mean when I talk about it? Look, all the elected officials of local self-government are, of course, officials. However, the chiefs of the department of various administrations are not, the generals are not. Many senior police officers are not government officials. Look further. We, you can take a joke, warn the citizens, who are parents of school children, to notice that by accident some friend of his best intentions, the parent of his schoolmate's friend, through the advice of his parents, does not propose to the school board or some neighbor through local self-government. They won't even understand how that moment will make state officials, with the obligation to place their property, the property of their spouse, their incomes on the international public, literally, accessible, from such an angle, and where the head of school administration in their region, the highest representative of the educational authority, is not a state official. Many significant officials of the Ministry of Education who, however, seem to be more significantly participating in the educational authority than members of the school board, because they are also paid, which the school board members are not, unlike them, state officials. What do I mean? Look at how people in the service, the administration, the bosses, they all think they're reliable and they're vetted. They don't need to be burdened with the obligations that apply to government officials, but who are aprioriers under corruption suspicion? The elected representatives of the citizens. Why is corruption's suspicion primarily and primarily related to elected citizens' representatives? Is it an uncontrollable verse, too much freedom, a free statement of citizens, so such a law should actually correct and bring it into control? It is a principled objection to our law, which today is the point of the agenda and which we are changing. You see, when I used the word Commissar, I wasn't too harsh, I even euphemistically used that term because we recognize in this kind of combating anti-corruption law of a particular line that conflicts with the values of higher order, with values of democracy and civil open society, lines that can turn into a tendency to permanent open threats by compromising the elected representative of citizens. From that point of view, you can see that we're coming to the same thing as repeating the external criticism that we've been making. In fact, we felt that, without doubting the value, which we support from all our strength, engagement in corruption and corrupt behaviour, which we do not think is supposed to be an acute combat action, but rather a matter of mental and moral hygiene, one long-term building of an anti-corruption culture in mentality and public life, which is why certain obligations that will apply to officials, but not so that the passion and charm of the fight against corruption would eat the world of Serbia's democratisation. In fact, we have seen in a set of higher values that threaten the solutions in question, and now here is an already changing or in the process of amending the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. First, it's that in one game, even if it's a political game of the multiparty system, the rules can't change in the course of the game while the game is going on. It's just inadmissible. If there was nothing illegal and illegal about running for the same citizens' representatives for several functions at the same time, and if there was no dispute against the citizens to support them in such an effort, then they cannot, after their election successes, become disputed about their right to perform the duties for which the citizens have chosen them. You recognize, I am talking about a subject which is very much shared by the media, which is related to the president of my party, Mr Veroljub Stevanovic, who is the mayor of Kragujevac and the MP in our parliamentary group. You see, there's a big problem that came up here in subsequent interpretations, so let's remember the geneses. In 2008, Mr. Stevanovic had a very clear political ambition, fully based on our party's programme, to confirm the mayor's mandate. That was his political goal. Because it has been recognised that in this struggle it will succeed and that it is a very handsome and influential candidate, which is why it has been asked him to stand on the list of parliamentary candidates of our parliamentary majority. After this success, when it was not legitimate to represent Mr. Stevanovic in a double function, it cannot become controversial by post-implementation of the norm whether he can perform the two functions. Thus, failure to comply with the rules on the inability of the norm during the term of office or match leads us to a kind of retroactive application of the law and legal standards, which is really controversial. In the public discussion, this is often masked with the thesis of conflict of interest. On this subject, I would like to make one significant remark, before directly elaborated, – it is very controversial, and in our opinion and unsustainable, to argue that there is a conflict of interest between the two public functions. The categorization itself – the conflict of interest is actually controversial, because whoever dealt with the system theory, even though he did not know the theoretically pointed political and state systems, may, in the case of formal theories, axiomatically built, remember that there are rules that must follow the highest principles of a formal theory, axioma, in order for the whole system to be consistent. In addition to the fact that an axiomatical gathering must be minimal, it must be complete, it must not be contradictory. From the axiom of one theory you can't grandfather both P and non-P, as the truth in that theory, if it should be valid. If our political system believes that it cultivates a public interest that has a P in one place, and in the other place a non-P formulation, it means that our political system is contradictory, and a law that defends conflict of interest, in fact, protects and cultivates that contradiction. In fact, I think the principled dispute of using the concept of conflict of interest between two public functions is largely used through media and public controversy as a smokescreen, as a front to not really raise the issue of conflict of interest, and it is always on the relation of private-public. How many directors of public utility companies, directors of administration, services and departments, those who are not in the spirit of this law state officials, but just regular officials, how many of them have private firms, and who are involved in the activities and in what are related to public-function jobs, is the essence of the topic of conflict of private and public interest. Another issue is when it begins to be interpreted from the point of view of reading the Constitution. Apparently, the Constitution does not allow mayors to be MPs at the same time. Where does that say in the Constitution? And the immediate appeal goes to the constitutional principle of the division of power and the demarcation of the legislative and executive authorities. What does this have to do with local self-government and with mayors? But nothing, because local self-governments are not a state body, local self-government and are not the authority in the elemental state-political concept of government, because they do not have a basic prerogative of government, and that is an apparatus of coercion. If we accept metaphorically that even in local self-government there is power, the mayor as an executive authority in the local self-government is not covered by the notion of the executive authority of the Constitution, because it refers to executive power in the state. Otherwise, if you think I'm wrong after all, then from the adoption of this constitution to this day, all laws are disputed, because every passing of any one of them here in the National Assembly has been attended by at least one mayor, the MP, and in previous councils, as in today's. In fact, the problem is a little bit more serious and we'll understand it more clearly when someone asks me – well, when you see it all in that law that you finally change, what did you vote for it? Quite precisely, neither my smallness nor the G 17 Plus MPs have thus or recognized themselves in the text of that law. The first question we asked in the conversation with representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency – are MPs officials? The people of the Agency were caught by this issue, and we openly say and stand at that position – MPs are not state officials, just as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not define the National Assembly as the highest state body but as the highest representative body of citizens. National MPs are representatives of citizens, not civil servants. That is, in fact, the whole lack of understanding of the issue of the law that we are changing. Where do you see that the system understands that? Take the newly executed or initiated reform of the judiciary. We all talk happily about the judiciary as a profession, but don't forget, the judiciary is a secondary profession. The primary judiciary is the government and the highest authority from the public's point of view. There is no doubt that the National Assembly is symbolically the highest authority, there is no doubt that the government is the highest authority in terms of operational, what it can do, but in relation to the citizen himself, there is no greater authority than the court, because only she can and has the right to deprive him of his civic substance, and the substance of the citizen is freedom. Only the judicial authority can irrevocably, irrevocably and finally deprive it of civil matter for life. How in one democracy can the highest authority be elected without the presence and participation of citizens? The answer was – there were participations of citizens, as the election was made by the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that we are representatives of citizens, not state officials. In that sense, can I count on the time of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. Then I'm done. We look forward to the final proposal to amend this law and we will vote in favour of the law on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency, satisfied that there is, frankly, more in the technical domain, the domain of prolonging deadlines, quantitative changes, and the principles we want to change still have to wait. "Together for the Forest," G 17 Plus, the United Regions of Serbia have the strength to present these principles in the long term and to announce that in each part of the system we will change them, in the interest of individualism culture, the emancipation of citizens as individual, free individuals, and at the expense of the atavis of collective heritage.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43010	The full time of the authorised representative has been used. In the electronic system, MP Jorvanka Tabakovic was reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43011	I began to listen very carefully to my colleague Milenić, who opened the key dilemmas of our parliamentaryism, in terms of symbolic and essential meanings of MPs, and I think it would be very easy for us to agree that we have a lot of differences in symbolic and essential meanings and some of the organs that are state or actually are not, when we talk about agencies and similar bodies, but when he finally concluded his presentation by promising to vote for the law, I see that there is not much harmony between what is thought and what has to be done as a party task. I want to ask the motionary how did he dare open this topic to the MPs again? When I say how dare you, I don't think you have any courage or lack something called fear. You have the courage and the power to do everything, but you're probably counting on annual vacations, on the poor ratings of these transmissions, when you allow us and you're giving us a chance to talk again about what is a cancer-earning society and not a natural disaster that happened in itself, not as a financial crisis that you also want to present by accident, but as a situation which you have contributed very much to by bad legal solutions, their changes and their delayed application. Changing the name of the authorities, councils or agencies dealing with corruption in society, indefinitely with the legislative regulation that regulates it, and even with this proposal, giving new and greater authority to the director of the agency to adopt opinions, regulations, interpretations and to determine whether or not there is a conflict of interest, is in fact a lack of will of authority, which is represented by a fighter against corruption, to do so. It smells like a smoke screen that you present to us in individual cases where you allegedly punish corruption is just a blur of lack of principled support to fight corruption good and clear laws and, on the other hand, to fight individual phenomena of that kind. How do you show that you are not fighting these phenomena? The fight against corruption involves fighting shortcuts and illegal wealth through abuse of public functions. That means we shouldn't let someone run to the front row without finishing a certain school, having no experience, not being honest and honest, professional. Not just a politician, not just the director of a public enterprise, but all those places where you can earn well and abuse the function where you are currently human. Is fighting corruption an honest intention of the government in which the only measure of quality and value has become money? And that's what we talk about when we talk about any law. When all social ties became market transactions, marriage, parenting, friendship, political party and membership in it. When you have an account marriage, then spouses know they can count, add and subtract, but they can't count on each other. If children look at you through what you are able to provide and pay, know for sure that from the relationship in which you raise your children with a well-inherited education you will not be able to bear much, not from new true and lasting values that are indestructible, which are goodness, wisdom and love. Money, as much as someone gets it with greed, which you stimulate with all the laws, is spent. They usually say – when parents eat green fruits, their children's teeth rot. This means that generations grow in lawlessness and those that we maintain in this kind of chaos will not be able to promote the right values, which is that the college ends in knowledge, that it comes to work by competing and showing these knowledge, and that on the scale of social success, the peaks of progress that involves work, not unhealthy ambition, where you serve neither your profession nor your human honor, but serve those who are able to fulfill that ambition. You don't fight it with this law. Why am I saying this? The story of fighting corruption has symbolic Minister Djelic for a man who was a symbol of abuse of public interest for private purposes when leaving the government founded "Altis Capital" and "Altis Investment" and even without a registered jury account earned huge money. Only symbolically, he was an example of how someone came to tell us that brains are proven by the number of zeros and for some other figures in the account. Mr. Djelic says if you're smart, you have to be rich. He failed to prove it in France, had to come to Serbia to prove it. He had to be at the Credit Agrikol Bank, formerly an adviser, the bank that was the biggest trustee of our foreign debt, to then become co-owner of the Meridian Bank purchased by the Credit Agrikol Bank. How did he become co-owner of that bank? By misusing the laws he himself has passed, for example The law on the prevention of money laundering, where it became co-owner of the bank at a rate of 9.99%, as Sopar Sas, which in France is only the number of phone accounts on the list. Just 9.99% of the property he got, because if he had 10%, he'd have to show his photo with his ID card that he owns that Sopar Sas company. So someone who participated in reforms talked about fighting corruption, the political party's exponent shows us how millions of euros can be made by using and abusing positions and privileged information. I personally felt that a private media director asked me – if you're so smart, I hear that in politics you're smart, why aren't you rich? He was convinced we shared the same definition of wealth. He is a wealth defined as defined by both Mr Djelic and many of those in the front row, those you call the old guard, those who were lucky to find their name in a book called "Serbia of Serbia visible with the naked eye". I've only got her first piece here, and she's talking about an old guard inherited from socialism, about the next generation that in the gray zone in agreements with the current government gets its wealth, and she's talking about a third group that's in a darker zone, almost black, which isn't being exposed, even being held behind the curtain, but as far away from power as possible from power, which is the larger powers from the shadows that even the innovations write about today, giving you the material that you're fighting corruption. This definition of wealth to measure someone's wealth by the number of private companies he has, by the fleet and by the cubicity of the car located in that fleet, by cash in the accounts or by the ones he keeps in the safes, with triple-secured doors, flying around some Monden resorts, somewhere exclusively, etc., for me are not symbols of wealth. There's a wealth of us not to owe credit, not to buy drugs, and to have children we're proud of. The largest number is in Serbia, which you are trying to destroy this system of values and by dealing with yourself and your own, mostly corrupt officials, who are reluctant to leave cumulative functions, you show that it is not a wealth. I've been buying medications, but it's appropriate for years that I've been doing what I've done in politics, so in 50 years when you've been taking heart medicine or wearing reading glasses, it's no wonder, because you don't have to be fooled by the intention of fighting corruption, while that's what the laws here, in this assembly home, are what you're suggesting. Why am I so sharp in grade? One of the leading states, the Republic, call it whatever you want, was Serbia and its people were always showing that sovereignty, because Dusan's code was passed at the time of the greatest power of this ruler, unlike that of John without a country that was the power of the greats trying to limit, because he had no power based on material wealth. You, Madam Minister of Justice, know that we are the third state in the world to have a civil constitution in the history of mankind. The tradition of justice and justice laws is something Serbia was proud of. That in the tenth year of what we call a revolution, market reforms, we are talking about a newly established body that will fight corruption, it is really not appropriate for that history or publicly declared intentions of the state to fight this corruption. You are proposing a law in which the Agency's director asks for the authority to choose his deputy, to bring himself, to have no agreement with anyone and to verify the law which is supposed to be so clear that it should be adopted this way, and you have heard from a few predecessors that dilemmas exist in the ruling majority, the director of whom it is important to secure himself a more secure salary than other civil servants, not to mention MPs, they are long ago not worthy to discuss their position and status at all, and that 65 plus 10 new employees in that Anti-Corruption Agency have many published property cards that have already caused conflicts and problems and misunderstandings in relation of property registerers and those who have reported it. I don't have a problem with that. For the fourth year, I have submitted my property card with precise data, not descriptive property data that I have, but what is legally registered, verifiable and credible, but on behalf of all those who make it illiterate, that they did not know the number of zeros to add, it is not right to be formed as of 1 January 2010, which is the day that the Anti-Corruption Agency started working. The law on this was passed in the tenth month of 2008. Enough time has been given to prepare all necessary preconditions for the resolution to start working and that we are meeting today with the request of that employment agency for another 35 people, so that the hundreds of employees would be more than active, for example, any ministry dealing with life issues. Did you ask yourself that question that I'm about to ask you? Whether the creation of conditions for corruption by bad laws, by putting ties to the eyes when corruption is used and misused, today deserves to spend insufficient resources in this crisis, to create an organ greater than any ministry operationally, so that it will now fight this corruption, by giving opinions, and even in some cases, I can doubt, sell forgiveness for those who will perform several functions, although it is forbidden by law. So, there is no clause to say what can be said, and what cannot be done at the same time, but it is necessary to ask the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which, in my opinion, is not to be rough by heart, to discredit my objectivity at the moment when the DRI delivered this home's 2008 report on the control of the 2008 final account. On 21 January 2010, the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency Zoran Markovic quoted "Tanjug" as saying that, in her opinion, the DRI report which analysed the spending of budget funds is not clear enough and does not provide a basis for the launch of criminal or criminal proceedings, as there are many gaps in the report itself. Markovic told the agency "Tanjug" that it should be further clarified whether and to the extent that there have been failures in drawing up the DRI report and stressed that it cannot be argued that someone should be held to criminal or criminal responsibility before these ambiguities are removed. How does one regulatory body, which is to fight corruption, suspect another body that is most important to control the spending of public funds? Can we attribute that to ignorance? Can we attribute it to youth, to inexperience, that someone who is director of the Anti-Corruption Agency can plead out this way about the report and say there are a lot of failures? What kind of qualification does it require for people to work in the DRI, while at the same time having a director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, qualify to give such an assessment? That's why I doubt forgiveness will be able to be, like, a Catholic church, for the illegal conduct of the ransom. That is why I see this law as an agreement between the authorities which gives excessive authority to the Director as unique and exclusive for interpreting rules, procedures, etc., so that where the authorities answer, they can approve two incompatible functions. Are we really going to be the hostages of these agreements? I'm told -- how dare you point that out, and you'll be the target of that and that kind of agency? No, none of us should be the target, but it should be the subject of verifiable research, whether we are responsible for our function and whether we respect the laws, even if we are bad, because that's the only way we qualify for a serious state, with which someone has to cooperate, to come here with foreign investments and sign contracts with us. The director's biography, when she was elected director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, with her pedanticity to print papers at that time, is no longer on the site, found that she had come to the agency from the post of deputy director of the firm who had the sound name "Invest vertical consultants". The Agency for Business Registers could see that it was one of the usual real estate agencies that had two employees, directors, precisely Mrs. Zoran and another employee, it was the deputy director, income in 2008. Can we promote professionalism, quality and tell young people - teach school, be honorable and honest because you will come to the top of a social pyramid where you will perform a responsible function if we face cases like this. I'm not sure these principled remarks that I'm yet to elaborate in a later debate are also about how there are equal in this country and that there are still untouchable, but invulnerable only for a while. Amendments and additions to this law do not deserve to be voted upon and I am truly surprised on behalf of whose merits should have come up with such an amendment of the law, and by which year, 2020, do you plan, if by any chance you do not give God power, to give us proposals for amendments to the laws, registers and people headed by these institutions, and when will you once start to fight corruption?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43012	The word has an MP, Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43013	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, if not the most important, this must be one of the most important topics for this assembly to deal with. In addition to being the most important subject and there are many controversys that follow the implementation of this law, we are forced or to say that it is one in a series of laws that only a few months after this assembly changes. I hope that this law has been agreed, given that it was as a proposal for the agenda at last session, if I am not mistaken, I hope that it is now in line with the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency and that is enough to say about this law. What is essential and what should be said is that this law will not allow corruption to be eradicated in Serbia. It could be like some kind of point or some end to the fight against corruption in a civilized society and as such would have a much wider meaning than it does in Serbia today. Serbia is a country where there are between 600 and 700 public enterprises. These are state-owned enterprises, essentially owned by political parties located at various levels of government. The 600 or 700 public enterprises have 600 or 700 directors, 600 or 700 deputy directors, 600 or 700 times three or four directors of the sector, times 10 at least, sometimes more, board members, who are changing as changers or how an election cycle ends. It's all given together by an army of several thousand people. This is not the state for which this government is responsible. It's a condition found in 2000. I remember that the coming DOS to power needed to find 11,000 people who would take over various functions in the country, including public enterprises. That's the point. The existence of these companies is the essence and basis of every corruption in this country. Corruption is minimally located in this assembly, a large part of the government, but it is still too few people. Corruption in this country is the essence of thousands or tens of thousands of public procurements held in these 700 or 600 public enterprises in less every day of the year. There is no Anti-Corruption Agency, there is no State Auditing Institution that can solve this problem in the control of the quasi-business. These people in the vast majority of cases, apart from membership in the political party, are not running to be in any of these places, not one single thing. If they could, they would have their own companies or companies, companies in which to perform those functions. Since they failed to do so, how can I say, thanks to their ability, they have found themselves in a political party position that allows them today to decide on millions of dinars of the country's citizens. So we say, and we are sure that the only continuation of the privatisation process and the exit of the state from all possible public enterprises, as standard in any other civilised state, is the only sound basis for fighting corruption. So depraving the state is a fundamental thing in the fight against corruption. If we add to this the number of ministries, the number of state secretaries, the number of people who come when power changes at the republican level, at local levels, in the authorities, we simply come to the fact that this agency really has a more than symbolic role. In a political sense, it essentially interferes with the fight against corruption, drawing attention from the fundamental problems of this society to a couple of individuals who have dual functions and who, whether or not wanting it or not, by publicly supporting this bill by voting, as we heard a gentleman in a football uniform just now, but do not think of their behaviour that this law and respect. It's in this country enough, to say publicly that you're for something, to support something, and then get out of this room, you don't care, to come into the polo shirt of short sleeves, to insult all of us, to teach us a lesson here and finally to say that you support the law, but that you don't think of acting on it, because you don't feel like you're a state official. Now, how can I say, in addition to this disenfranchisement of the state, which we really believe is the fundamental basis of both transition and the elimination of corruption in the right or essential sense, we think that the existence of clear rules that are respected is another basis for eliminating corruption. If we look at everything this government has done in the last few weeks, we don't have to go far, a few weeks, we'll see what's been done to make no rules in this country. We said a few times that rules only make sense if they last. If they last, and we all know them in advance and we treat them, they become rules, otherwise they're a matter of arbitration. A matter of arbitration, because in the end it comes down to the right of one or to the greater importance of one who has power, in our congregation sense, that is the congregation majority, the ruling majority. Here's an example of no rules. It's a matter of mandate. Do the terms belong to the MP? They don't belong. One law says one thing, the other, the Rules of Procedure say one thing, the Law on the National Assembly. We've submitted the amendment, it's not accepted. It has been accepted in a modified form. Is Mr. Shormaz an MP or not? Three weeks doesn't know that. It's a lack of clear rules. That's what we're talking about. It's a kind of corruption that's very political and it's not for money. It provides security to the ruling majority, with the ruling majority deciding on each individual case of MPs' mandate in this assembly. It directly provides for its survival in power. If we look at the definition of corruption in this law, it's an obvious example of political corruption. So the absence of these rules is a fairly widespread method, especially in the functioning of this government. Let me remind you that this government, for example, has passed the Construction Planning Act. Whatever you think, the government here has asked that those who have already bought something under certain conditions pay something else now that the government thinks it's okay. Is that called avoiding rules? This assembly passed a law last week that abolished the tender, as a kind of business of the state. I'll talk about it a little bit later. There are no clear rules, unfortunately, in this law either. Look at article 82. The bill says that unless someone submitted, which was entirely impossible under the previous proposal, their application to perform another post by January 1st, up until April 1st, now extends to September 1st, and then gives the Agency the right to interpret whether it is in conflict of interest. I ask you a question – is Dusan Bajatovic in a conflict of interest? Is the director of Srbiagas in conflict of interest? The director of the company, the MP? If you read this law once, you'll understand that it is. We're wondering if he's an MP or a CEO of that company. The company buys other companies by converting its debt to Serbia. Does it do so on behalf of the political party to which it belongs? Mr. Bajatovic has not worked for 40 years, I have nothing personal, but it is a good example, in "Srbiagas", so he is Serbia's biggest gas expert. He is the vice president of one of the ruling coalition's parties, which when he came to power he took over as the director. We can still talk. On the board of directors of NIS, there are various people who have nothing to do with it, except buy gas at the pump, as all citizens of Serbia are likely. What's qualified them for that? These are questions, gentlemen, that have to do with corruption. Whether someone's brother or sister is the director of a private firm or a shop, it affects more or less, but it's a question that will come later. What we are interested in is – what gives political parties the right to propose board members and corporate directors? So why is this right limited, and why does the current government not continue the privatisation process in the way it was done in 2000, which would give the state the right and give it the right to someone who is a private owner, and I suppose you'd best know what to do with it? Believe that 99% of this type of functioner doesn't think about the well-being of these companies, because it's not natural. It's not theirs, they're here for a while. They are thinking or how to achieve some result for this company in the short term, not paying any attention to the long-term interest, to get political promotion for themselves personally or to think about how to damage the company, to get rich. Does the police have the strength to arrest all of them? No country in the world has ever solved the problem of corruption in this way. Never one. Are we going to be the first? Let me doubt that. You have a neighbouring country that may have had the biggest corruption problem of all European countries, it is Romania. From the Committee on European Integration, we met with them a thousand times. We've asked them a thousand times. It's very clear what they had was the answer to corruption. Full depolitisation of business or economy, meaning, strong, fast privatisation and on the other hand, the exit of the state from everything it can come out of, and as a third, clear rules. No decision. While the rules are clear, it's easy for everyone to behave. Unfortunately, we said the same thing when we discussed the previous law. A lot of noise has been made, and that law has turned, more or less, when we look at the media, not to fight corruption, but to hunt for witches. Now if some media controls one party, she chases these from another party. If she controls the ruling coalition, she chases these others. Is that gonna solve the problem in some fight? He won't. They will agree, as they agree each time, and that problem will remain with all of us. As for double functions as a very important issue, I can understand the argument that the rules have changed and that is why they should have been postponed. You're members of the ruling coalition and you have a third of the MPs here, you can't, you can't vote for this law and you can't break it at the same time. That's not possible politically. You might think it's possible because it's going through right now, but it's not possible. It's not possible. On the other hand, you could use another argument, which is that there are ministers in the government who function in two functions. The prime minister is the chairman of the Development Fund's Management Board, if I'm not mistaken, the economy minister is also the chairman of the board of directors of a fund, economy minister or vice-president of the government. Minister Djelic, or Deputy Prime Minister Djelic, is again part of something else. These are cases that may be special, but there's no real justification for that. The Development Fund would work better if the prime minister wasn't in his place. Another time was when Zoran Djindjic was the head of the fund. That was the second time, and then it was the current solution, which was supposed to serve for a few months until the authority of that fund was given. Why is Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic the director of this fund today? As for the Prime Minister, we were talking here about his son and the law that this Assembly was changing, which directly involved his son. We didn't say it was true. We said what we heard. We never got an answer to that question. Never. Instead, the media is filled with information about the price of coffee at the congregation restaurant. Will that solve the problem of corruption? Of course not. Double functions and the way they solve us are deeply led or persuaded in the view that the change of this law has the sole aim of providing the majority of the ruling coalition in the District Assembly in Vojvodina and how to ensure that two mayors, who are also MPs in this assembly, are not angry and that the whole problem is now solved with as little consequence in the ruling coalition. It doesn't say here, but it's the stories we hear. One of these people submitted an amendment, then withdrew it and accused the ruling coalition of being planted by the amendment. I've never really heard anyone plant an amendment, but if that's true, why don't you tell me about it. Shormaz has also submitted such an amendment. This man's been unconfirmed for days. The Management Board is scheduled, Tomislav Nikolic goes to Hilandar, the Administrative Board is postponed until further notice. These are things that systematically build corruption. Let the police handle those people with those cytostatics and all the other embarrassing things. Police and the judiciary, not to be offended, but these are individual cases and they are more crimes than they are the subject of corruption. These are serious crimes. Corruption exists if we don't know how to choose the director of home health, why is such a director of home health, hospital director, hospital board, supervisory board chosen. Who decides that? We have taken one part of responsibility in Belgrade and no official of our party is in any function, not in the City Assembly, not in any public enterprise. None. Did that have any effect? Very small. Our political agreement and way of talking to other partners was for everyone to act that way. As it depended on their will, and not on the power of those, I don't know what to call it, the group behind the parties, it worked, and then at one point it stopped being important. It stopped being important because of that huge number. We in Belgrade are setting up theatre directors, boards of theatres. Belgrade owns 117 pharmacies. I'm sure it's the only city in the world that owns 117 pharmacies and whatever you do, that corruption will exist. Corruption will exist, it was an object, even a debate when it comes to the city government, but a solution other than privatising it does not exist. How are we going to solve this? Who's going to deal with the team? Which one of us understands that, in medicine? We ran for election to implement some political idea. If this political idea, among other things, carries a fight against corruption, we are now telling you that it is a lie and a demagogy that this problem will solve the police and the judiciary, and you know it well. It is a political problem and it is resolved by the transition process and by the completion of the process. When we talk about Europe, this is not a condition for Europe alone. This law should be a condition for us because this is about spending the money of the people who vote for us. These are our interests. Let's see why Serbia's railways live on subsidies, I don't know how many years ago, a dozen years, and they've never worked more slowly. Why Telecom buys another Telecom in Republika Srpska for 600m euros and some million euros, and we will see how much it will sell now. Because these decisions are made by politicians, and they have no interest in the company and the people who work in these companies as the first. They either have a political promotion or have some interest that is punishable under the law. So, of course we support everything, if this text is consistent with the Anti-Corruption Agency, we don't have, simply, if it's a common position of an independent body and the Serbian Government or this majority, it's okay with us. We tell you - it is also a lie and a demagogy that in this country there are campaigns of witch hunting against individuals, while at the same time because some individuals are now in the ruling majority there are no sanctions, no decisions, the functioning of the law is only delayed. It's delayed, I've cited several examples. Solve, make clear political decisions. Could the mayor be an MP? There's a reason for and against. That's what every one of us knows. In the first session of 2000, 40 mayors sat in the Assembly as MPs. Does that mean that this congregation was bad? No, I don't. So, you solve that question how do you know, but don't change the law every few months because you want to provide only the majority or at least don't let the issue of corruption come down to how many people the police will arrest, because they'll never arrest anyone who deals with corruption and lives on it. Only systemic changes continue to bring the EU closer together will solve the problem. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43014	Eighteen minutes and 40 seconds used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43015	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, is clear that the main feature of this law and the main definition in the beginning can be that this law is more than scandalous. As the previous law on the promotion of the construction industry in Serbia has been scandalous, nothing less is nor is this law scandalous, especially in view of the way the amendment of the law was proposed. So two weeks ago, the government decided at its session Thursday to amend the Law on Conflict of Interest, to come to parliament on Friday, and already on the Assembly's agenda on Tuesday, to discuss it urgently and to adopt it in such a hurry, while the Vlasi people do not remember. After pressure from the public, primarily the media, and in part the Anti-Corruption Agency, the law has been withdrawn, so we have it on the agenda now, but it does not diminish the intention, the government's obvious intention and the ruling coalition to bring through the urgent changes of this law something which is a political pamphlet and political benefit, which will essentially result in even greater corruption in this country, although it is in 83rd place, after most of the former Yugoslavia's countries. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act was passed in October 2008 and then the same after an emergency procedure, although it came into force on 1 January 2010. Article 82 of the law defines that "a functioner who performs several public functions on the day of application of the law is required to remain in office within 90 days of the date of application of the law", so on January 1, 2010, "a statement which public function will continue", so a public function will continue. From October 2008 to January 1st 2010, the year and three months, plus ninety days, therefore, a year and a half of Members of the ruling parties, mayors, directors of public enterprises and all others who, by the letter of the law in conflict of interest, had room to sit in two or more places, lobby for their businesses, their parties, sitting in more places, to receive probably more compensation on this basis. And that was little to them, but they simply said in April, no, we are not interested, we will continue, given that we have the political power to blackmail the fragile ruling coalition, to sit in parliament, although by the letter of the law we are meant to free ourselves from other functions and continue to perform only one. When Mayor Jagodina blackmailed you that you had to give him a piece of paper that says he's not in conflict of interest, from your ministry inexplicably, and we don't care who signed it, whether he's a state official, whether he's an assistant minister, a secretary of state, or you yourself, are personally responsible for such a thing. If after such a quoted member, where it is clearly said that a functioner must decide what public function he will continue to perform, you write that the mayor of Jagodina, since he performs the office of mayor and at the same time as the MPs, is not in conflict of interest, then there really is nothing left to do, if you have the morals, to thank yourself, to say that it is a mistake and to resign, because such a thing could probably not, probably, anyone who doesn't have a day of law school to write and to put a signature on it. Since the proposed amendments to the law failed to allow a good part of the ruling coalition's MPs to reduce their appetites and continue to perform a public function, then you started to amend the law and to say that although the letters of law and Article 82 were not followed, they could decide which public function would be performed beyond the paril of the month 2010, to delete that member of the law and to say that in the future, if the Agency decided and assessed, it would also perform more functions. Not even one more, as it was in some drafts, but more functions besides the function of the MP, mayor, director of the public enterprise, etc. Since some people of integrity are sitting in the Anti-Corruption Agency, who have raised their voice against such mockery of the law and the simple existence of any sense that this agency exists and that people are doing their job as provided for by the law, then there has been a meeting, as I read from the press, between you and the Agency's representative, where it is agreed to find some transitional form which the Agency's director says is nevertheless a compromise solution that will come before Parliament's MPs and will be adopted. What is this compromise in the fight against corruption? Should there be a compromise in the fight against corruption? Or in conflicts of interest that there is a compromise? I don't think so. The DSS Group believes that nothing faster will lead us to Europe, to a fundamental fight against corruption. In this country, according to data available to both the public and various agencies involved, the state spends about 5 billion euros annually on public procurement. It is estimated that between 20% and 25% of these five billion euros are poured into private pockets through various corruption ways, and there are as many as you want. Mostly by setting up tenders, putting his close people in tender commissions, creating conditions that are minor drawing of one who should be a public supplier or contractor, in order of course to achieve private interest. The government will now, since it is the legislator of this law, by amending the law to fight corruption, which so persecutes every port of society, and at the previous session of the Assembly, proposes a law to encourage the construction industry that completely negates public procurement and says the Serbian government can take loans from commercial banks to build state projects. And those projects where the various mayors sitting in parliament are going to say -- I want this in my town right here, right here. Where little Perica imagines that he needs something, the state will borrow and set up similar companies to do these state projects through a direct contract. After that law, we propose to amend the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which will cut it down, so we will no longer be 83th to corruption in the world, but we will be probably 103. Or the government, whose prime minister has the action, and it is likely to say more than that, in an agency dealing with the payment of copyright, which is essentially public authority, will fight corruption. How is that gonna happen? That's impossible. Do various ministers' advisers, such as Deputy Prime Minister and Police Minister Dacic, have private construction companies? How interesting is it to get an answer if he's doing state projects? Does he work for the government? Does he work for various ministries, including the police department? Is there a conflict of interest here? Is that a direct way to maybe get into something that can be called corruption? Or does the brother and father of the environment and spatial planning minister also have a construction company, which also deals with business again for the state? Is there any doubt that corruption can occur and conflict of interest? I'm sure there is. Until such matters are resolved, there is no saying that Serbia can fall below 83rd place, and especially if it is said that officials who have performed more public functions, and despite the clear provisions of the law that on 1 April 2010, they will have to stop all other functions except one, where you will say in Article 29 of this law, well, no matter, we will forgive them, so we will give them a deadline to report more public functions by 1 September, and then the agency will consider whether they are or are not in conflict of interest, so sometimes they will decide if they are what functions and how they should leave them, or leave them. There's no record of what happens if they do the same thing. Since we hear Mr. Milenic earlier that it doesn't matter, the man was elected mayor, or councilman, elected MP, could also be the director of a public enterprise, he could be in ten positions if the people chose him. Boris Tadic chose the people, he could also be a minister, and the prime minister and president of the state could also be the governor of the National Bank. Why would we need other officials then? Then what does the concept of the law of conflict of interest serve? Nothing. It's a complete mockery of this law. It's not said anywhere when this person who reports more functions and the agency says he's in conflict of interest, and he says, "I'm not going to step away from either one, so what are we going to do?" It takes this sort of thing of conflict of interest and doing more public functions by cutting into the beginning. No one can be elected to another function if they already have one and it is a completely clear and simple solution. If his mandate in the Serbian Parliament is confirmed, it is public data and he can no longer be elected because he is already in one place. If the mayor is elected afterwards, he can't run for mayor because he's already running for a public office. These are solutions that are short and clear and that can produce results. This is how we are going to burn with five, six or ten MPs, director of public enterprises, political powers, who will say – I will not step down from any public function and the government will fall if you do not please me to be in more places. Then we have various blackmails, and from the duchy parties -- there will be no majority for the government unless the statute passes, unless there is a strong transfer of public authority to Vojvodina, there will be no government unless there is more money allocated to the constitution than is foreseen for the Vojvodina budget, there will be no majority of parliament unless this or that mayor is allowed to be in two places and if the government does not give the money to build schools, hospitals, roads in that place where a certain mayor comes from. It's a direct blackmail of the government and a direct conflict of interest. Of course, the DSS parliamentary group will not support such changes of law and considers this to be a mockery of the concept of conflict of interest and in general the principles of combating corruption based on political influence and through public procurement and through all those things that happen in parliament, which by nature things are incompatible in many places. Because if someone is sitting as the director of a public enterprise in parliament, and the parliament decides on a loan for his public enterprise, about some measures, about any law that has an impact on business, that is the company, so there is no better example and better way to explain the conflict of interest. We are completely skeptical, given the way this law is proposed and how the majority of the assembly is clothed from session to session, how individual political powers condition the government, and parliament and the assembly majority, that anything good will happen in the field of fighting corruption in the coming years in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43016	Fourteen minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Right on line, MP Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43017	I'm replicating because Mr. Lapcevic has made one criticism at the expense of my presentation, pretty much twisting it in terms of meaning, and while he's pushing for it consistently for what I've been up for. I have not said for a moment that once the elected representative of the citizens could therefore, and on this basis, perform countless functions, which you have committed to Mr. Stevanović and Mr. Tadic in a cartoon display, but rather on the contrary, I have said that no one has the right to later challenge any of the functions of the citizen who has been elected by the citizens to that function, by being held literally, just as you have, to make it impossible and to run for any other function, if it is incompatible with the function that someone has already performed. Anyone who has been legitimately running, who has legitimately won trust, cannot be separated from the citizens by any law after receiving direct verification from the citizens. Exactly what you're saying, she says my discussion, with one observation that really communication, a system of public information communication, often exercises the public in the discipline of spitting up, which is most often due to insufficient listening and understanding. Very often, citizens are directed to no one to have such deep suspicion and aversion but to their elected representatives, who are their only chance of establishing control over the state and the apparatus. In that sense, I also plead that we listen a little more carefully in our congregation communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43018	National MP Milan Lapcevic is again registered in the electronic system. You have no right to a replica. This was an answer to your mention and qualification of the presentation of the MP of Sasa Milenić. National MP Dejan Radenkovic, an authorised representative, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, we have before us amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. We know that corruption often goes hand in hand with organized crime. Whatever the struggle was, it was insufficient, because unfortunately, according to research, Serbia is at the bottom of Europe last year, only Albania and BiH have more corruption than in Serbia. In the past year, more people have been arrested than the last five years, but that is not enough and we must go to this evil together, which is treated as the greatest evil, when it comes to the survival of a country and people. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act is a system law governing conflict of interest in public functions. Since this law was passed, there has been an immediate need for individual provisions of this law to be amended and complemented, i.e. to be precise, and to be applied as correctly as possible, to remove many of the dilemmas that existed in the past since it was brought in. This applies in particular to the regulation and clarification of the procedure for the termination of functions in the case where the official performs two public functions, contrary to the provisions of the law. It was also necessary to supplement certain provisions relating to the performance of other work or activity during the exercise of public office, the prohibition of the establishment of a company or public service during the performance and exercise of public office, the transfer of management rights to a company or a company during the exercise of public office and the prohibition of the establishment of a working relationship or of a co-operation business at the time of termination of public office. The proposed amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act also extend to the round of officials to which the Anti-Corruption Agency Act applies. The meaning of the terms used in this law, as well as the definition of new competences of the Agency, shall also be governed. Under the proposed solution, the Agency will work in future with scientific organisations and civil society organisations in a more efficient way to prevent corruption. The amendments to the law clearly specify that the Agency's Committee, in addition to other competences, decides to increase the Director's salary, since the Director elects and resolves the Agency's Committee, as well as that the Director and a member of the Agency's Committee, in addition to being unable to be members of political parties, has been clarified here that they cannot be members of other political entities or groups of citizens participating in the elections and has been defined to be free of charge. These amendments shall also clearly define the salaries of the Director and the Deputy Director of the Agency. We consider it more appropriate for the Director and Deputy Director to be balanced with the salaries of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, i.e. the Court of Appeal, for the simple reason that the basis for the salary is determined by the Budget Law, and given that the Agency is independent and independent. In the case of the termination of a public office in the case where the official performs two public functions contrary to the provisions of this law, or where he has not obtained the consent of the Agency, the obligation of the body in which the official has been elected, appointed or appointed to office has been established. On the termination of that function within three days of the date of the adoption of the decision of the Agency, when consent is sought, establishing that the selection and appointment or appointment of officials is carried out contrary to the provisions of the law. In addition, an exception is prescribed in relation to officials who have been elected to public office directly from citizens. The amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act are specified in the performance of the political party, i.e. in another political entity during the performance of that public function. At the same time, a terminology of the expressions of officials elected directly by citizens was carried out. The proposed terms are quite clear in relation to the legal solution so far. The functioner cannot take on any other business or activity during the performance of a public function that requires full-time work or permanent work, as they would say more precisely. Instead of the legislative solution so far, it is envisaged that at the time of entry into the public office, the official is required to report the work, i.e. the activity he is carrying out, and the Agency shall, upon receipt of the notice, determine whether the conduct of that other business or activity is a conflict of interest. In this act, many of the dilemmas held by both the committees and MPs who performed some private activity prior to their entry into office had been resolved. So far, it has been necessary to seek consent to such a thing, and now the Agency is informed whether there is a conflict of interest or not. Of course, if a conflict of interest is found to exist, a deadline shall be set within which the official is required to stop performing the work, that other activity. If the official fails to comply with the decision of the Anti-Corruption Agency, he will carry out a procedure to determine the violations of this law. It is also provided that, if the Agency does not notify the official within 30 days of receipt of the notice, the official may continue to carry out and continue his business activities. As with the previous changes and additions that I have made in relation to the legal solution so far, the proposed solution is, as I have already said, more precise and celery, which is good, because we hope that it will not cause dilemmas and controversy in the next period. This solution also defines a ban on the establishment of a company or other public service during the exercise of public office. The prohibition applies only to officials whose function requires full-time or permanent work, and this also applies to bodies of management, control or representation of private capital in a company, private institution or in another legal person. The proposed solution is that the functioner can be a member of other associations, which was not formerly a practice, primarily professional, unless the Agency finds that there is a conflict of interest, we consider it a positive step, because, according to a valid solution, the necessary agreement of the Agency would be necessary. The new proposal also covers a part of the report of income and property officials, which will now contain data, and is added to the part that they are beginning to be subject to the registration of assets from foreign authorities, not only in the Republic of Serbia. A procedure is also arranged when a civil servant submits a report of corruption in an organ in which he works. These changes and additions shall regulate its protection. Powers have also been provided for the director of that body, how to protect the anonymity of those persons and what measures they are. All this is good because this supplement is extremely important, because it will thus provide as much information and security as possible for those who want to report corruption in all segments, which should finally start this positive trend towards a common goal of reducing corruption. What is important in these amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act is to change amounts of fines. They have been increased from 2-5 times and are higher than earlier. These amendments have been proposed for the purpose of increasing the range of fines contained in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements, taking into account both the severity and consequences of the infringements provided for by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. A new infringement of the responsible person in the state body and organisation, i.e. the responsible person in the AP, has also been ordered, which will be sanctioned if he does not make a decision on the termination of the post within the deadline laid down in the law. What can be said, and perhaps most importantly, has caused controversy these days, although there are no fewer changes and additions, is the fact that the situation is being arranged after the application of the law and a solution is being proposed for the officials who functioned on the day of the application of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and they have not defined what function they will continue to perform. I must say, on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, that we, when the law was in the procedure, insisted on our amendment to make this go away, because it's a newspaper in our system, to add an additional deadline, so we came up with some compromise solution to extend the three-month application of that law and proved ourselves right when we asked for that deadline to be bigger, but you have to be careful not to get misunderstood. This establishes the obligation of those officials to notify the Agency of any functions and activities they perform and carry out by 1 September 2010, and upon receipt of that notice, the Agency will determine whether the exercise of more public functions, i.e. the exercise of other work or activity is a conflict of interest, and, if it does, the Agency will decide on a time limit within which the functioner is required to cease its function, work or activity. What we may have some concern, it is not clear to me or my colleagues that the over-authorization of the director is clear, because there is a Committee above the Director and it is left to the Director to adopt a general act, to determine what other functions the officials can perform. Maybe that little fear and some clarification about how it's imagined, what kind of control mechanism that would be when there's a Committee. Unfortunately, in the end, I have some opinion research carried out in March 2010, and it was conducted by the UNDP. When asked – have you heard of the Anti-Corruption Agency, 60% of citizens say it's heard, which is good. What is not good, according to the survey, is that one in five respondents believes that the Anti-Corruption Agency does not contribute at all to curb corruption. Those who believe the Agency contributes to curbing corruption, generally think it is to a small extent. This one in a series of anti-corruption laws, and I'm taking the opportunity to invite you to continue together to try not to be at the very bottom of that scale among undeveloped countries and to engage in an offensive against corruption with common forces. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, which in principle supports this law, and with all the well-intentioned and constructive amendments that are proposed, we will be ready to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43020	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. That was 13 minutes and 45 seconds. The word has an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must briefly refer to the presentation of previous speakers. As for the ruling coalition's position, here's the citizens, you could hear for yourself, one representative of the ruling coalition has repeated, persuaded, or read what it says in the context of the bill's proposal, the other representative of the ruling coalition was a little more creative, but in his creativity he obviously made a series of material mistakes. I am sorry that Mr. Milenic is not present in the O.R., it is difficult to complete the first year of any law school in Serbia, including these newly-compromised private ones, that he said in an examination that the National Assembly is not a state body and that MPs are not state officials. I strongly recommend that he take good books and textbooks, for example Slobodan Jovanovic, Radomer Lukić, Prof. Ratko Markovic and others, and there will be a very simple and reviewed way of getting acquainted with the concept of the National Assembly, with the notion of power, public functions, etc. As for Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic's presentation, I must admit that I really do not understand that the moral lessons of anyone, including this and this and this, and the Anti-Corruption Agency, represent someone who is an MP and who is a party official who was created on the basis of the outrageous theft of parliamentary mandates in the National Assembly. This has not happened absolutely in any well-organised parliamentary state, it has not happened in any EU member state. Also, it is not clear to me that someone is talking about fighting corruption, and a member of the party which, for example, in Vrbas and Odzac gave 100 euros to citizens to vote for the party or, say, in Arangelovac, they gave artificial fertilizer and spent, according to their estimates, about 400,000 euros, without receiving a dinar from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then the question arises which structures finance the party's election campaign? As far as the amendments to the amendments to the law on amendments to the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency are concerned, firstly, Mrs Malovic, this new member of the 21st. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act will read like this – the Agency has a deputy director who is elected in a public competition. The agency, Mrs. Malovic, can't have anything, the director can have a deputy, the Agency can't have a deputy director. Secondly, you wrote that the director elects a deputy among the three proposed candidates from the list established by the Agency's Committee. So you've involved the Agency's board in the selection process of the deputy director, but you've ruled it out in the process of dispensing the deputy director. The Deputy Director shall be dismissed by the Director without having to consult the Agency's Committee. This makes it clear that this law does not have a clear logical link between its members. But what's more serious is the next thing. Mrs. Malovic, you are a lawyer unlike Mr. Milenic, so he may not have to know. The fundamental principle of democracy, modern democracy, which means liberal democracies in the 19th and 20th centuries, is the principle - one man one vote. In a way, the continuation of this principle, its logical trail, is something that appeared in modern legislation after World War II, and what is called – one human function. Why is that principle important? On the one hand, it is important to prevent any individual in their hands from culmating excessive political power. Allow me, if he is a national MP, if he is a director of a public firm, so he is a member of the leadership of a trophy football club, so he is a member of the board of directors of a hunting society, etc., forgive me, he also has formal but informal huge political power, which he can abuse whenever he considers it to be in his personal interest, in the interest of his political party, or in the interest of a group he represents, in a direct or indirect manner. In 2008, you passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and in some ways, with many exceptions, you accepted the principle, otherwise ruling in modern democratic states, that one man could perform only one function. Then something happened to you that happened to you and to the Guardian of Citizens, something that happened to you and the Commissioner for Free Information. It's all nice to have these institutions, have these laws, it's in line with European standards, it will positively assess us by the European Commission when it valorises the results of European reforms in Serbia, but God forbid some of these laws are applied to us. Then we're changing the laws. Now, Mrs. Malovic, in Serbia you have an incredible case. The law, so specifically this law on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, only formally has a general character. The general act, also known by Mr Nikola Novakovic, is that legal act relating to some future time, to an indefinite number of cases and to an undefined number of citizens, and you have written a law amending the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, having in mind specific personalities, individual officials and the law adapted to them. From the Roman law, Mrs Malovic, the principle is known that in a well-organised legal system laws are not passed because of individuals but in the general interest. In the Republic of Serbia, the law is not passed because of citizens, specifically this law, is passed because of Pera, Djoca and who knows which other DS officials or other ruling parties, because the gentlemen in the obvious not only conflict of interest, but clearly have stepped into corruption. They had on 1 April 2010 to declare what function they were holding, with some of these gentlemen performing, Mrs Malovic, six functions that were incompatible with each other. The daily "Blic" published a list of more than 20 names in March somewhere in March, with the moss being the province's MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly, making DS their coalition partners, who perform more functions and who were obliged to declare by April 1st what function they are holding. Of those 20s and something, and there's, of course, a lot more, do you know how many have come forward? Maybe two. Because these gentlemen have not declared themselves because they have given themselves the right to disobey the law passed by the National Assembly, you are now forced to extend the deadline from 1 April to 1 September. Explain to me now where the interest of citizens is, where is this situation from the book of State Theory and the right to pass the law for a future time, to apply to an indefinite number of cases and to an indefinite number of citizens? You have certain citizens here, I can give you the name and last name of the people who make this law. Tell me where this exists in modern democratic states, in which the EU Member State, which you allegedly seek, laws are passed because of MPs from this party, because of MPs from that party, because of directors from some fifth party, etc.? Now, Mrs. Malovic, one clear legal objection. In Article 28. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, this new one, therefore, including amendments and additions to this law, says: "The Agency is required to decide on the full and orderly request of the official who subsequently entered another post within 15 days of the date of receipt of the request. The agency will not give consent to perform another public function if the performance of that function is in conflict with the public function that the functioner is already performing." Explain to me, Mrs. Malovic, when is one public function in conflict with another public function? This is not in Article 2, which should have been written, in Article 2 of the Law defining the meaning of certain terms. Article 2 only states what is meant by conflict of interest, and that is good to know, conflict of interest is that and that is so, and it is indeed written in Article 2. Now I ask you - how will the Agency decide whether there is, as you say, a conflict of one public function with another public function, when Article 2 is not explained when this conflict exists? This means that the Agency will solve from case to case, resolve arbitrarily, resolve itself, solve under political pressure from certain individuals or political parties and then from legality, from consistent and uniform application of the law in the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Malovic, there will be nothing left. Also, I wonder what you meant by this term "political entity"? You've changed everywhere, for example "a director cannot be a member of a political party, or political entity". Tell me which political entity you mean, if it's not a political party, what is it? So either this "political entity" is unnecessary to you, because the political party is already meant by the concept of a political entity, or are you referring to something else that is not a political party, but I haven't seen anywhere what it is, so it would be good to explain to us in terms of this law what is a political entity beyond the concept of a political party? Article 28 states: "In the event that the Agency does not decide within the time limit laid down in Articles 4 and 5 of this Article, it is considered that it has granted approval to the official for the performance of another public function, unless a function is prohibited by another regulation simultaneously to perform those two public functions". I must remind you, Mrs Malovic, that this situation is regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act. Therefore, giving consent, opinion or confirmation to an act is regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act. In the General Administrative Procedure Act, you have an institute called – the silence of the administration, and it reads: "When the competent authority of the administration or the other competent authority does not resolve it at the request of the party within a specified legal time limit, the party's request is deemed to have been rejected. "Then the fiction is that a negative administrative act has been brought in. In your case, this fiction is not valid, you are subject to another fiction – if the Agency does not agree, it means that it has granted approval. That's how you disrupt the logic and harmony of our legal system again. The funniest is Article 28 of the following provisions: "The functioner who has been elected, appointed or appointed to another public function, contrary to the provisions of this law, the later function ends by force of the law". So, by law enforcement, you don't have to pass any act, it's the law that regulates whether or not someone has stopped function. But it's not like that. You say this: "Decision decision on termination of office in the case referred to in Article 7", which is what I just said, "is made by the authority or by the permanent working body of the body that has chosen, appointed or appointed to a later function, within eight days of the date of adoption of the Agency's decision, which determines that the functioner has been elected, appointed or appointed to another public function, contrary to the provisions of this law". In other words, this is not by law enforcement, but required to make a formal decision on termination of office. What if that formal decision isn't made? That means a man can perform two public functions, even though it's obvious he can't by law? You're turning your head now and you're saying that this situation isn't possible. I say it is possible that you now have this situation in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. A month ago, a session of the Administrative Committee was scheduled to decide, among other things, on the termination of the mandate of Mr Dragan Shormaz, who left the DSS. When it was due to move to that point of the agenda, when the ruling coalition realized that it did not have a majority to hold on to Mr Shormaz's mandate, then it was decided that the session should be postponed for a day next week, because it was allegedly that the MPs from the ruling coalition were not prepared enough, professionally prepared to deal with such an important issue. However, when you submit the blank resignation of someone from DS or G17 plus, you do not need any waist, it is voted in two minutes, when the resignation is submitted to the SRS or DSS, then you should bring together all the professors of the Belgrade Law Faculty, to help you to resolve the issue whether the MP is the owner of the mandate or not. Until today, the National Assembly, or the Administrative Committee, has not spoken of it. The latest news is that the Administrative Board couldn't decide because the conceited head of the opposition, whom Boris Tadic sends a message that his life was in danger, went to Hilandar. So he first went official to go to the newspaper the next day – no, he went private, with a van with academics Gojko Radic and Milan Bačević. There's a MP here, so there's such a joke. What is our guarantee that in the case of another official, a permanent working body will make a decision to stop his function because it is supposed to be by law enforcement? What are our guarantees? Nothing, just to trust you. I may want to trust you as an educated and likable lady, but I can't trust the regime because it has fooled us a thousand times so far. A thousand times they said, yes, we respect the law, the law is passed, you say it is in line with European standards, but when it comes to you, we either don't respect it or change it. Mrs Malovic, Article 29 – the official cannot use the public resources and meetings at which he participates and meetings he has as a function of promoting political parties, or these political entities of yours. Tell me, please, have you ever heard that, for example, the heads of the ruling parties speak at a rally or spend public resources to promote their political party? I heard, you heard. Tell me, who's gonna stop them? Nobody. This will remain a dead letter in the paper. I don't know if you know, Mrs. Malovic, how Serbia's extraordinary local elections have been taking place since 2008 and how it has been winning these extraordinary local elections? Maybe you didn't do that, you're still the minister of justice, you don't have time for that. Ask your DS colleagues, from G17 plus, from other ruling parties how to win the election. By the ministers, who are a couple of excelans of public officials, with trucks, bulldozers, buffers, packages, cash, possessing one municipality and then a month after that municipality – Vrbas, Odžaci, Arangelovac, Bor, do not matter at all, repeat pictures of Lorden Zafranović's famous film "Occupy in 26 pictures", but in the most literal way. They share stoves, Chinese shoes, Chinese mobile phones, ready money, which is domestically made, artificial fertilizers, fishing sticks, jams, pâtés, calodonts, hair shampoos, underwear, and all this is done by ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They're coming in with official cars. It's all been bought by state money, because I doubt any minister paid for that package out of his pocket, not just grabbed it from the state register and used it to propaganda his political party. It was done in Serbia and, unfortunately, it will be done. There is no law, Mrs. Malovic, to tell you immediately, you are probably aware of that, too, which will prevent it. Why won't he stop it? Because you don't have the will to stick to what you're about to vote on. It'll be formally written, but you won't respect it. In order for a law to be enforceable in practice, it is necessary not only to be legal quality, but to have a good will to apply it. There is no such thing as good will with you. You heard from Mr. Milenić – trees and stones on the law, but we will still vote in favour of the law. You can imagine how they will apply it. Mrs. Malovic, something that is purely legal to me is not clear. What's a "functioner whose public function requires full-time work or permanent work"? What does "permanent work" mean to you? The very notion of a public official means that his term of office is taken somewhere for four years, somewhere for five years. How can a person with an armed mandate have a permanent working relationship? Explain to me. That's not possible under the Labour Act. That's not possible under the Civil Service Act. This is not possible under the Law on Labour in State Authorities. You have settled into something that is a pure journalistic jargon expression – permanent work. Permanent work is probably a work of indefinite time, but it is not possible, Mrs Malovic, because when you elect someone in office, whether the president of the Republic, or the MP, or the president of the municipality, the director of a public enterprise, you choose him for a certain period. He can start a working relationship in the meantime, but it's not permanent work, it's work for a certain time. He's been working for as long as his function lasts. This is one banal thing, and I'm surprised that you put something into the law that's a journalistic jargon expression that basically means nothing. When everything is collected and taken away, Mrs Malovic, this law will remain a dead letter in the paper. You're passing this law because of certain individuals from the ruling parties. Serbia will remain as it was - a dark villa on the European map. We will not enter the EU not for the sake of the SRS, but for those of you who make such laws bad, and then you apply them in a worse way. Many provisions of this law, Mrs Malovic, will never be applied in practice because political practice in the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Malovic, will be created according to the political will of those who possess political power, not according to the norm and the letter of the law that you will vote on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43022	The replica was reported, as mentioned, by Mr. Sasa Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43023	A little proud that my presentation served as a basis for defining my own attitudes to many, including Mr. Martinovic, just to clarify. As you say, trees and stones to the law, but we will still vote for it. To remind you, the item of the agenda is the law on amending and supplementing the law, which is precisely why there is room for criticism of the law in question, which is contained at the very point in the agenda that we also support and which we have voted on. With one gratitude that in the short time of my absence, you mentioned me by referring to professional literature in the area of State and Rights Theory, and in the context of my thesis on the National Assembly as the highest representative body of citizens, not the state body or the status of MP, not as a state official, but as a representative of citizens. You will allow me to retaliate in the same manner, so I would recommend to you the book of Allen Groissar "Structure of Sarajevo", where, in the phenomenon of the eastern despoties, this modern French philosopher and psychoanalyst answers the question of what is it that in totalitarian denials so many thousands of individuals hold in subjection to an arbitrary soprano. What's the name of that force? Allen Groissar responds – that force is called love. Intimation of citizens and states is the root of many problems in non-democratic states. Where you have the greatest son of people and people, the greatest Serb who is inaccessible to love, that's where this phenomenon of intimacy and the root of corruption is born, because the closest thing to its gleaming was only measuring things and the rules of conduct.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43024	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43025	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we at the session today want to bring some additions and amendments to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I get the impression, attending this debate and listening to the ruling coalition, and I am very sorry that Mrs. Minister who attends this session is completely out of a story of fighting corruption. I think you're pushing for better corruption with these changes and supplements. You want to warm her up, force her, hide her, divorce her. You have one law that has been passed, which is clear and loud. We have heard here lawyers who have said that the law is respected, that the law is respected, that what is brought is respected to the end. So we have a clearly defined law and a clearly defined deadline that he said everything about. Now comes the political problem. You have one political blackmail from both Vojvodina and Serbia. What's going on? We now want to balance everything and destroy the law. The law with these changes won't look like anything. Article 11 will completely destroy this law. We're going to have a law that, for example, you don't know what you want with it. Madam Minister, are you defending corruption or are you in favour of corruption? Is it clear to you that there is a legislative separation from the executive authority, or do you want a clumsy, blurry, one political chubby, to bring one chubby to the law, where to hide it, we need to consult some scientific institutions? What kind of science institutions? The law is the law. The law has its own members who must be respected. What do you want with this law now? What's your goal? To survive the government. Is anyone blackmailing you? I was in one of the previous governments and the government fell the most because of these blackmails. Let it fall and the government should fall when it cannot survive. Don't embarrass yourself. This is a disgrace to the Serbian judiciary. This is a disgrace to every trained lawyer. This is for the least law enforcement officer in Serbia. I don't know how you feel as a minister. Do you want to be a figure here, to cover some of the political stuff, etc., or do you want to be a minister who will make certain decisions that the law must be respected! We here want this parliament to preserve its dignity, that this Parliament does not pass one law, and after a few months divorce law does not look anything like anything. We've ruined everything like that, Mrs. Malovic. We've passed some law on public procurement. I thought he was bad, that he needed to be fixed. But now we've said we can have a free contract, and so can anything, only to survive the government. Here, we're listening to an MP trying to explain something, but we know what the goal is. What's the point? There's an individual here stronger than your ministry. This is where your ministry failed the exam. You have to resign, so you don't embarrass yourself anymore. You have to leave. You have to leave because every process that threatens the government you have to support in order for the government not to be compromised. Please, look at the verdicts, your court, you're fighting for judicial reform, your court has reached a ruling in the King's ruling in the administrative dispute that has been reached, and then the government makes a conclusion that is older than a court ruling. Police are coming to respect the government's conclusion, saying the council is legitimately elected, out of parliament, standing up for legs and hands and throwing them out on the street. Did you see that? If I were a lawyer, if I were a minister of justice, I'd go home. There's no need to get confused. I need you to leave. You need to figure out a time when to leave. So this is what some people have mixed up with, trampled, crushed, crushed. What are you sitting here for? To convince us that this is good. This isn't good. This is neither E from the EU, this has nothing to do with Europe nor anyone. This is a disgrace for Serbia. What now in Vojvodina some important guy out there wants to be more of a function? Do you believe, Madam Minister, that you have a man here, one of the directors of a public firm who works in three places, in two or three public enterprises, and has a fake degree? The D.O.P. discovered that the diploma was a fake and no one should touch it because the government is going to fall. Now someone said there - don't let anyone touch it. You all shut up like Sister Perse, move and just shut up. Just let the government last until next year, and we'll see what we can do next year. Right? What about the programs? What about Satellite? You can't touch anyone. You'll see now that you've got Sarancic what you found for him, Madam Minister. Did you find anything for him? Will you find something for him? You ask a lot of people for something, and there are billions of them. Can somebody touch it over there? How did Dinkic come out with a view to Mil Dragic? Did he get the acquittal, Madam Minister? What about Luke? What about "The mouth"? What about the problems? How come the Sartida procedure is out of date? How come there's missing files all over the government, no files, no contracts, nothing? Who could have stolen it and taken it somewhere? It's what you call a violation of the law. Madam Minister, we're going to ask a lot of questions here, it's a little ugly, in the end, you're going to have to give answers, so we're going to call the name and last name to taxively list some things here and define themselves, to know exactly what they do. You have as many violations of the law here as you want. You haven't defined anything at all. He does whatever he wants here. And tomorrow to survive the government you will do anything, you will change the laws. It's a shame, we're spinning around in circles. Do you know that four hundred laws were passed last year, you boast of the ruling coalition. Here, now you're boasting it's about two hundred, I guess, in this half of the year. What country is it that makes six hundred laws in one government's term? Do you realize that this is normal legislation, a normal state? Imagine when you change the sixth law in two years you still go full steam, and you spin all the same laws. Come on, Zika, change the law for Zika, then pick up Pero, then hit again. Here, now we change again, here's one law in a year we change three times. Why? Not to mention, you know that well. Here's the third time we'll change it, and again today when we talk about this law and talk about it, for example. Someone on the board says, "You know what, we'll change him in two months anyway." Let's make a law once, Mrs. Malovic. To make the law that you stand as a rock in front of the law, as a minister of justice, and say, "This is the law and the point." This cannot change anyone, let the government fall, Mr Cvetkovic, the government will fall, but it has fallen, the law cannot change, because it is European law, because it is the right law, because it is the law that protects the country from corruption. But now we're going to change a little bit, and we're going to give a little bit, and then we're going to give and then we're going to do and what are we going to do in the end? Nothing. Corruption is booming, and we're fighting it. How? Do you know, ma'am, that those in government are corrupt? When a man in opposition can't be corrupt, right? Now that he's in the government, you protect him, nobody touches him, because we're going to drop the government and then we're developing corruption. Tomorrow, if anyone goes into opposition, they'll all go down on him, and everyone's forcing him to break the laws and commit violations so the government can survive. Everyone says -- don't touch Peru, don't touch Junior, don't touch Zika, the government falls, give in, give in, give in, change, write the amendment, here's your amendment, just hand it over. And we're embarrassing ourselves. Well, of course, tomorrow we'll be chasing someone there, etc. Please, as you were able to allow as minister of justice, imagine now with the Chinese this mess, we've driven a 370m-euro bridge and we've groomed it to 170 million free contracts, without a project, we haven't yet made a project. Who is this genius who could have discussed a thousand positions that haven't been designed yet? And another morning in the morning's programme, one of our politicians boasts, says – imagine, we have lowered the price from 370m euros to 170m euros. What do you think, is that a good law? Is that okay? Now we're building a highway, we've signed an agreement. Dulic says the projects are not yet completed, but the price has been agreed with a free contract, so where is the break? That's how we made our decision for the Refinery. Do you know that the Smederevo Municipality has signed her mayor, the Refinery Treaty with Smederev, and there is no decision of the Assembly. Now he's trading. Do you know, Mrs. Malovic, that the mandates in the King are being bought, traded? Do you know that a man confessed and signed that he was forced to sell his mandate, signed a statement, went public and read a statement at a press conference. What's the matter? Nothing. Did the D.A. react? It's not. Ten thousand euros, 20,000 euros, the man says -- I was wrong, I accepted, I signed, I wrote, I verified and read at a press conference. But it doesn't matter. The government's conclusion is that there must be some, I don't know where you're getting him, Simovic to be mayor. No one has chosen him, and you will take all the Royals out of the municipality if necessary and only to remain Simovic and Sljivo, and that they lead the municipality. These others will occasionally come to the guests to do something, if necessary, but only to survive the government. Does this Glamour have to survive, by the way, the government's gone. If he's not there, the official falls to the government. Now that's a shame, and you instead of cutting it up, you'd have the support of all of us. We support you, I don't want to waste myself here, last time Mrs. Comic tells me I didn't want to listen to her explanation, she gave me a punishment, etc. I'm not going to rephrase it, I'm not going to do anything, I'm just going to tell you that this is a disgrace to Serbia, that this is a disgrace to Serbia. This is a disgrace for a country that is serious. We're away from the EU every day, ma'am. Do you believe, after October 5th, I was in Washington with Mr. Djindjic. We were also promised in Brussels, 2004 you are members of the EU. Then the Zemuns began, the Surchins, the machines were blown up, Professor Chume came, the academic might have become these days, and all that was ruined. Then they told us in 2007, but pull it up. We don't. They say -- in 2011, come on, people, here's a chance, so in 2017, here's a chance in 2018. Now whisper, there's none of it, a failed thing. The failed thing, because everything we once adopted, talked about, European laws, Europe, all of it now falls into the water. Now we have our local politicians, internally here in the country that we have to protect and cherish, to watch over them and pet them, and don't by any chance go anywhere, to fail, because our country is falling apart. We have to redefine our position with the IMF now, because one minister wants to score some points. Some of them will share, some of them will share this. Do you know how much corruption there was in Arangelovac in the election? How can ministers do things like this, the minister splits the stove, the minister splits the stove, the minister divides the jeans, the minister shares the cans there. Whose money did he buy? Who brought him in? Who made it possible for him? Money's being shared. Minister Bogdanovic, I watched, splits the money in Leposavic in the elections, shares the calendars, and out of them falls ten euros, five euros each, falls to people on the street, they bend down, so as they tended, there was nothing left, we move on, and those others, for God's sake, multiply in line when they see a bit falling out of the calendar and some dinar or some euro. Hence, some MPs wrote here, wrote, photographed, depicted photos, and what was done. Nothing. We rule, we step, we walk European ways, we chase, so where we go, it doesn't matter. Now where we're gonna go, we'll see. Please, nicely, did Davinic dictate nicely the list of people who forced him to sign for the satellite. What did the D.A. do about it? Nothing. Did the man say nice, here's what I recently met him on the street and I'm talking about, and the man says nice, that and that one told me that and that I have to finish. Who are they? Oh, my God, the highest peak of one country and another country, etc. When you talk to these representatives of some states, do you talk to them, is it honest talk, to deliver, to give the perpetrators of certain crimes, to clear up, to clarify, or it's just a cover for us here. Please make concessions to each other, make arrangements, do something concrete. Pull this law out of the process, here I will support you for the rest of your life. Whenever you're somewhere to vote, I'll say, "Well done, Minister." That's the kind of minister we need. Here we need a minister of justice who's going to slap his hand on the table and say this - this can't. That's the thing. All the lawyers in this country will applaud you, and the judges, the students, the teachers, the opposition, the position and everyone will support you. A few will object, but it's minor. Do not support this law, because this law is not good for Serbia, it is not good for the state. And therefore, Madam Minister, the decision is in your hands. If you bring this law and you adopt all this that someone has promised, there's no point in being there. If you slap your hand on the table, you'll be a long minister in this country and I'll be proud to have a minister of justice like Mrs. Malovic, who had the nerve to cut something off.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43026	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43027	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a country in transition that has to pass many laws and at the same time is a country where the laws it adopts have to and change in different transition stages. Unfortunately, Serbia is late with its transition. All Eastern European countries have finished this job before us. What we have lost in those years and with the greatest effort we are unable to catch up in these years in which Serbia has decided not only to complete the transition process, but also to achieve a goal that is the interests of Serbian citizens, which is to become a full member of the EU. In that sense, it is true that some other governments have worked more slowly in some other periods, have done less, trying to achieve that goal. What we have on the agenda today is a law on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. A country in transition, a country that has been in a war environment for ten years, is certainly a country where corruption is not nearly as well solved as it is in countries that have long traditions of democratic order of their society. No society has fully fought corruption, but what other societies have managed to do is build a stable system in the fight against corruption. What is certainly commendable, and I think I end up with everyone's right to criticise this government and this parliamentary majority, is the fact that this government, this ministry and this minister, this parliamentary majority has passed a set of anti-corruption laws and laws that it has declared to date the most serious war on organised crime and corruption. Of course, any criticism that points to failures in the system's resolution of these issues is something that needs to be seriously considered, but any criticism relating to the occurrences that occurred before, the phenomena for which responsibility is borne precisely by those who are today criticising this government, who is trying to create an organised system that society will fight corruption and organised crime, is actually possible, in my opinion, an attempt to draw attention from its own responsibility for what is not done and to the abuses that were committed at the time. When this law was passed and this law was passed, it was an unequivocal political will to create a tool in the fight against corruption. Those who said this tool wasn't enough are quite right. Of course, one law cannot, and of course, not one independent body, one organ to solve the systemic problem of corruption. In that sense, we view this law as part of the legal system that is being built and part of the institutions that are being built, which should enable society to effectively fight corruption. What is the essence of the problem occurs in communication between the public and what this law actually needs to define. So I think a completely wrong picture of what a democratic system means when it comes to conflict of interest and the exercise of public office is at stake. What is in some way the result of insufficiently agreed legal acts with us, possibly sometimes insufficiently understanding the essence of the political system of a democratic modern society, is what is a conflict of interest? So, can there be a conflict of public and public interest? Is the incompatibility function the same as deaccumulation? So are there in the legal system unequivocally defined functions that are incompatible with other functions and that in one democratic political system deaccumulating functions is the same as conflict of interest? Can there be a conflict of interest? And is that incompatibility function? In my deep belief and in what I have read from theory, when it comes to conflict of interest, then it is primarily about the need of society to prevent conflict of public and private interest and that there is no conflict of public and public interest, that there is only incompatibility of functions as a need to clearly execute the division of power, on the one hand, and, of course, that society is protected from excessive concentration of power and therefore the government is divided into branches, to levels, to avoid excessive concentration of power. What we now have as a fundamental confusion in the public is an interpretation by which every other function is a conflict of interest, an interpretation by which function is defined and something that is not a function, an interpretation by which something that is not power is defined by something that is not power. I truly share my colleague's confidence that local self-government is not a government and that the principle of sharing power, even if local self-government is treated as power, is not that someone at the state level cannot perform any function in local self-government. So, in my deep belief, there is no room for conflict of public and private interest, which is the essence of the effort to enable the law and the work of the Agency to defend society against personal interest which, using public function, will come to some advantage. So I think that these solutions that are offered by amendments and additions to this law are, in fact, in some ways, the removal of those forests that existed in this law and in some ways gave room for conflict of interest to be interpreted as a conflict of public and public interest, to define deaccumulation as incompatibility of functions. They're completely different categories. So society can define that it is building a system in which it will deaccumulate functions, in which it will say – one man, one function. Yes, but the essence of democratic society is not that it is the basic principle on which society must be built in order to be democratic. This is not the principle on which society must be built to be preserved from a possible conflict of interest or corruption. What is very important to us is the fact that we really listen to practice first of all. I think it's really good, if the practical application of the law indicates that there are some woods that open up a space for arbitration, that it's better to change the law than to leave room for the law to be interpreted from case to case. What is also, in my deep belief, important to building a system, a society that is in transition, is that we don't make any laws to destabilise society. On the contrary, we are passing laws to create a stable society and stable institutions and any law that may result in destabilization, I do indeed require serious attention and requires that this law be changed in this sense, in order to ensure a stable transition of society. Because there are those who think that a society in transition can change by creating a zero state, removing all the regulations that were in force, all the principles that were valid until then and starting to build everything all over again. Unfortunately, that's not possible, because everything would collapse then, it would be a complete mess. We can change society one step at a time and every time we make such a big step as it is by passing system laws that society is fighting corruption and conflict of interest, I think we're taking a huge step. And if I have to take a step back at some point, I think it's better, but it's important that we maintain stability in our society. That is why I think that by voting for this law on amendments and additions to the law, we in no way suspend neither the idea nor the creation of a legal framework, nor the institutional framework for what it was was intended to do when we passed this law, which is an organized and systematic fight against corruption. I want to point out once again, it's not the idea that public office holders are exposed to media or any other hacks or sub-species, the idea that citizens can track whether someone, performing a public function, acquired something that doesn't belong to him under the law, whether someone used a public function rather than that information to serve some comical idea of whether we are a society that has too many rich or too poor, whether someone is rich or because he doesn't deserve to be someone who performs a public function. That's not the point, and that's not the point. The point is that no one who performs a public function is used for the harm of citizens and that is the basis for any law that should make such a thing impossible. So there's no reason for this law to be passed, that someone who's a member of the school board can't be a boardman. It is the devising of the very essence of what is the need of every society to divide, by strict division of power, against the excessive concentration of power, on the one hand, and to prevent, by means of instruments that prevent the possibility of public interest being a victim of private interest, to prevent it, in any case.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43028	Twelve minutes and 20 seconds of use of the time of the authorised representative, that is, the president of the parliamentary group. The word has a minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43029	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, honourable citizens, I would like to thank all the representatives of the political parties who have been exposed to this bill. Also, I would like to share with you one of my observations that, unlike the previous draft laws that were in front of this respected home, I would say that this bill from most MPs has been adopted, which points to the fact that we all want to fight corruption together, unbound on whether we fully agree with all the solutions contained in this bill. And if there was a proposal to withdraw the law, I would say that they are more of an expression of misunderstanding and that they have succumbed to writing some media, which did not have the text of the bill themselves, but had arbitraryly interpreted what would be found in it or what was in it. Also, at the beginning of my current presentation, I would also like to remind you that the Ministry of Justice has fully done this bill with the Anti-Corruption Agency, that there was a working group and that this text does not differ much from the text that was withdrawn from the National Assembly a few days ago. At the Department of Justice, we thought he was technical. We acknowledge the failure to ask for the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Therefore, this text has also been withdrawn and this current one, which is in front of you, has been done together with the Anti-Corruption Agency. There is an opinion that is also held along with the bill. Also, I want to point out that the text was not withdrawn because it was pressure in the media, pressure from the public. He was retired long before it even came out in public. So, as I said, we accepted the Agency's position that even these technical changes and additions should not be done without their consent. We certainly intended to amend the text of the law, because the daily work of the Agency showed the need for certain provisions to be specified, to supplement certain provisions, but the urgency of the proceedings was because of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which we respect, which we will not go into, not related to whether we agree intimately or disagree. The justice ministry did not want to act, as was the case in certain cases, even with the Law on Local Self-Government itself, where the Constitutional Court's decision would be known. The government didn't respond in time and you're self-aware and much better than I do you know what it looks like now to apply that law at the level of local self-government. As Minister of Justice, I did not want to allow the Constitutional Court to react, because such a decision by the Constitutional Court would be a cassation of this provision and that is why we wanted to leave before that. As far as corruption is concerned, it's a complex phenomenon. The very fight against corruption is one very complex thing. In the '90s, we had that corruption was a regular state of society, that corruption was a normal phenomenon, and that the awareness that someone was in the corrupt part of it didn't even exist, began with those famous changes of foreign exchanges on the street, and so on. After 2000, there were different directions in the fight against corruption, from repressive, to preventive. The fight against corruption has several dimensions. On the one hand, it is preventive, on the one hand it is repressive, when it comes to the very corrupt phenomenon, whether it will be sanctioned through the work of judicial authorities or, for example, by law enforcement authorities. if we're talking about a conflict of interest by the Agency itself. But what is most important is that there are clearly designed mechanisms to fight corruption. I believe that's what we're doing. We don't have a problem with saying that at certain times we may not have come up with enough solutions and that we should change them. After all, crime itself, corruption itself is not a static phenomenon. He has his metamorphosis every day. As a government or as someone responsible for running the state, we must adapt that fight. As far as the very determination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to fight organised crime or corruption is concerned, I think we have shown this, that this awareness and will exist and that we are doing just that every day in our actions. I will stress only that Serbia has a value of more than 100m euros, which will be distributed to those of whom it has been taken away, to the citizens themselves. I expect a quality debate, as it has been so far. I will try to give clear answers to all your questions. Once again, I thank you for the debate that I think can contribute to an even better bill, and what is more important, if we are talking about this topic, it is that certain inconsistencies in the public, which are related to this topic, can finally be removed. I thank everyone for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43030	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SPS-JS, Nova Srbija, LDP, DSS, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. Before I give my word to the first speaker, and by order of the Members of the People's Parliaments and the application for a word in the principled review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Act, I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 85 paragraph 5, that today we will be working even after 1800 hours, by reviewing the draft law which at that time is the subject of our work. If we close the original search of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Anti-Corruption Agency before 1800 hours ago, we move on to the next item of the agenda. The first registered speaker is MP Petar Petrovic, followed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43031	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act in its basic text when it was brought two years ago to the general public, has brought great attention, so it is also normal that this bill on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act also raises great public attention. Two years ago, I pointed out in front of the Unique Serbia, and when the bill was on the agenda of this high-legislative body, certain misunderstandings, or misunderstandings that could have occurred and were in practice in the application of this law. Unfortunately, these remarks were not accepted at the time, and some amendments were not accepted, but I see from the amendment and the addition of this law that many suggestions and remarks were then put forward in the proposal to amend and supplement this law. When we talk about corruption, I can't explain why we keep bonding if someone's in conflict, so-called conflict. Interest if it performs two or more so-called public function, that apriori is immediately corrupt or will be corrupt. I don't see why that's how it's done. It seems that today it is popular to say for someone who is successful at more functions to immediately have the opportunity to be corrupt, instead of taking care of some other things, and perhaps even some of the speakers who are at the Anti-Corruption Agency and should be as members of the Anti-Corruption Committee to take more care of themselves and their members who are on the board, because they also perform more functions. To take as an example, is someone who is a professor, performs public office, a professor at some state college and receives salaries from the state budget, while working as an extraordinary professor at several universities in Serbia and is also paid for it, and is also paid for a job that works in the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, so I ask, in front of the JS, is such a person in some conflict of interest and can he perform more of these public functions? Calling professors and doing business at the state college, I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, it's a public function. Therefore, we cannot say that someone is, because the council is in a small municipality, and is also a member of the supervisory board of a museum, of a tourist organisation or of a school board in some primary or secondary school, in conflict of interest and subject to corruption. I would like someone to explain to me what this corruption is about if the council member is in Knic municipality or Rekovac, while also a member of a school board at some elementary school. On the other hand, a colleague from Kragujevac was talking about something else, when it comes to elections, whether local congregations, whether republican, or regional, must be clear rules of the election match. When we moved into the electoral procedure and elections in May 2008, each party was given the right, on the basis of its election results, to get its representatives both in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and in the local parliaments, whether it was known that someone who was then an MP, whether in this or in the duchy parliament, could not be the president of the assembly or mayor at the same time, and had previously been elected. In order to gain the right to be elected president of the municipality or mayor, he had to be a councilman. Therefore, he was elected in the direct elections. Were such rules that were later established in the Anti-Corruption Agency Act? So we in the JS agree and we showed it in principle, we withdrew the amendments that made it a big deal, so to speak. We simply do not want to participate in proposing amendments to which, as some say, we will protect our interests or party interests. We want the election game to be fair, correct and to be with the principles that will apply the moment the elections are discussed. Let's not change the rules of the election game after the election's over. On the other hand, I am surprised that some MPs from opposition parties, when I was an opposition, have criticised every law and it is normal for the opposition to criticise every law, but it would not be good for some opposition MPs to throw wood and stones and call out those who are now MPs in this assembly to try in some way, which has no slight connection with the truth, to blackmail the Ministry of Justice to get some explanations, to remember only when they were in power and that they were then in the boards of public enterprises, where they set up their own people, paid 250 thousand, 300 thousand and 350 thousand dinars. Was that a source of corruption or not? So let's not forget what happened two or three years ago. When I was in power and I had the right to decide on a lot of things, and I was putting board members in well-paid boards of public enterprises, big and smaller, and now I'm pouring ash on my head, and I forgot all that. So let us, in principle, talk, pass a law that will apply from the moment the next elections are over, whether parliamentary, whether local and that these rules are clear. This is how we change the rules after the election, for these or those reasons, and, on the other hand, that those rules were changed at the moment when the elections were called now as not to apply. What irritates me as a JS MP in particular is the conduct of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Why? I absolutely support their work, I absolutely support their desire to apply the law, but I would only have to ask them one question – in whose name do they perform, when the law has not yet been passed? They warn us, I will not say and threaten that we MPs do not violate the Constitution and, if we make an example of, some provision of a law that is not in accordance with them, unfortunately, today the Constitution is interpreted by all, and least interpreted by professors of law school, but interpreted by some sociologists, psychologists, philosophers at the Anti-Corruption Agency, may address the competent at the Faculty of Law or in Kragujevac, Nis or Belgrade, as professors of constitutional law and explain certain provisions of the Constitution to them. So don't let them warn us not to violate the Constitution, because we haven't even passed the law yet. On the other hand, do not threaten to address international organisations. I read that in certain printed media, that some of the Agency have warned us to take care of what we do. So let these gentlemen and these ladies at the Anti-Corruption Agency, if they don't agree with the law that we bring here, and they have a second opinion, the best they can do is take the pens in their hands, resign from the post they've been elected to, some other people who are going to apply the law as they are. I don't care if it's called Cupic, Cuplic, etc. After all, if we mention Mr. Chupic, I remember that a few years ago he wanted to be an MP in this House, and he was also the bearer of the list in a political group and went famously through those elections, he got something about 1%, and he spent some heavy money on billboards, on posters, on television shows, etc. So, Mr. Chupic, I'm telling him that as a representative of the JS, you stick to the law that this parliament brings. If you disagree with him, run as an individual of the constitutionality assessment before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, but it is most necessary for you to withdraw from that function if you do not agree with such work and such laws as this assembly does. Therefore, to conclude, as part of the SPS-JS coalition, we three JS MPs have no objection and we will accept such a law as has been passed in parliament, but let us not respect others for something that is not true and that does not correspond to the truth. Those who think that we from JS in one way or another want to destabilise this government, are wrong, the elections in Serbia will not be before 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43032	It's been used for 10 minutes. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. A lot has been said by party representatives, so these authorised representatives. For some things we are illusory to repeat, what I cannot accept is this prolonging by September, what will essentially change, as well as who will cover this empty space since April that the moment of entry into force of this law, what will the Agency do about it. Of course, there are some changes in the authority of the Director and some of the ingenuity that the Agency should not have. As this will all be resolved, it will also be pointless for Mr Cedomir Čupic, who has made a clear announcement, which applies the law that we have passed and now any condition of an independent agency is also not practical and that none of the individuals, when the law of the vote begins to interpret that law, must start to work by those people who are authorized to do so and for what reason we have formed them. What's also important to say is that the Agency's director now determines from some three proposals from one deputy, I think it should still be done by the government. And I'll say that, if he looks backwards when we passed that Anti-Corruption Agency Act, I suggested that his amendment move for 2011. We wouldn't have this problem today. As we accepted for prosecutors to lead the investigation until 2011, it was also appropriate to accept it, but sometimes it does not pay attention enough, so that not all the opposition would be accepted, but trust the NS MPs no matter how hard they try to make certain things right and make it easier for the citizens of Serbia, and, of course, for the agencies set up, to work with such an amendment. We have some things to say, in part, NS President Velimir Ilic pointed to some gaps, some phenomena that occur at the level of local self-government. Of course, there's a Anti-Corruption Agency to go public, but if the Anti-Corruption Agency insists on something when it comes to the summit, then we can't expect them to solve any individual problems that aren't so benign, which are very dangerous and if corruption works in local self-government, then there's no luck for Serbia, then there's no luck for the government, no luck for the Assembly either. I would remind you that on 23 March 2010, a local parliament in the Kingdom of 40 committees was elected, so there was a change in government, and within 7 days, ministers, five committee members suddenly changed their will. Reports have been filed, as it is possible to happen within seven days, it may one day not solve this set, but someone will certainly solve it. But if we don't cut into the root of some things, there's nothing since we got into Europe. So that's where what happened was shared. Let's also accept that all this has been done in some way, not to prejudge things to accuse someone of anything, I guess some investigative authorities are going to do it, but something is happening that the government is practically bringing itself into conflict of interest. I know, Madam Minister, that you are not the Minister for Local and State Self-Government, but you were at the government's session when the government concluded, calling for decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court, changed the election will of the citizens of the Kings. I'll just tell you one thing, practically the district court verdict solved the status of 8 committees, but it's simply said that – a court decision is not valid, we've reached a conclusion of the government and we'll apply it like that. Practically, retroactively applying the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court therefore established by decision of 21 May 2010 that the provisions of Article 47 are. The law on local elections ceased to apply on the day of publication of the Constitutional Court decision, because this member is not in agreement with the Constitution and is not in agreement with approved international contracts. However, the legal basis for those committees in the judgment of the 2009 District Court in the Kingdom has been a judicial verdict before the publication of that decision by the Constitutional Court and those persons who are 8 cannot be representatives and have suspended their mandate. Even the Administrative Court has decided nothing about these mandates. I think you've been led astray. As regards decisions and calls to the Administrative Court, the fact is overlooked, therefore the decisions of the Administrative Court and of the Members of 42 and 69 are incorrectly interpreted. The Law on Administrative Disputes, since the cases have been respected and the judgment has hereby annulled the contested administrative act, thus restoring the subject matter to the competent authority adjudicating the decision. This is especially the case in Article 69. The law on administrative disputes says: "When the court annuls an act against which an administrative dispute has been initiated, the case returns to the state of re-demand by appeal. "This is obvious because the Administrative Court eventually always called for Article 55(1). The law on local elections, which also states that if the court adopts the appeal, it will annul decisions or actions in the process of proposing candidates, or in the process of electing a committee, or cancel the election of a committee. It would normally be that, after respecting the appeal and the annulment of the decision of the City Assembly, the decision should be re-determined, because no one in such cases retains the mandate, nor the committee member whose second committee is elected or the committee elected instead of the previous committee, and the procedure is re-implemented. However, all of this was deliberately interpreted differently and it came to this as far as it came. Minister, I'd really like you to check all of my allegations. Brooke and it is a shame to decide this way, because if it is decided this way, believe me, the preparation of the law on local elections is too high, local elections should be abolished, only the MPs and the government should be elected, and then simply say who has the government, has committees in local self-government. We are exhausting what is the basic postulate of democracy, it is to be chosen and elected. In addition, all of this happens practically in the proportional system and although we have some things to respect, these decisions of constitutional and administrative courts are a little too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43034	Eight minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43035	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Ministry's representative, the esteemed fellow MPs, corruption is a serious systemic disease more than in any society, especially in societies that are going through the transition of an economic and political system such as the Serbian society. The abuse of the official position, the abuse of the government of information, the abuse of power that does not result from the personal superiority of a person, but from the power of an institution that this person represents, as well as a number of other forms of public or hidden abuses, have the effect of the atrophy of institutions, the weakness of their authority among citizens and the formation of a subsequent form of system, under which there is an overall widespread and accepted opinion that nothing can end without the influence and will of the people who are on one of the steps in the pyramid of power. Corruption defies all fixed and permanent human and civilizational values, such as knowledge, work, personal example, solidarity and the meaning of the victim for the general objectives and particularly destroys and completely degrades social institutions that are obliged to organise the state so that each individual has the opportunity and the opportunity to demonstrate his value by his own result, not by the position of power that he accidentally has or the money that opens up his perspective to that power. Corruption in Serbia is the great evil, perhaps the greatest evil that follows our society in this period. I would even say that corruption is as much evil as organised crime, even greater, because organized crime faces public condemnation of society in general, open persecution by the state, and full distance of citizens from that kind of activity. Corruption as a hydra to its tentacles tends to cover as many members of society as possible, to establish itself as a general principle and a rule of conduct. To complete a job that is often vital to them, citizens are accustomed to such a pattern of conduct and, they did not want to, participate in it so that unlike organised crime, which has a general conviction, corruption in our general public is reduced to corruption affairs that treat the media or to silent and pay attention to the whispers of those who convince ever-increasing cases of corruption. This devastating social illness is not immune to any of the most respected members of our society. We are witnessing an affair that has been rocking Serbia these months, in which the main actors are people of undeniable professional and intellectual potential, who have proven themselves in their profession not only in our country, but also in the world contexts. When such people succumb to the abuse of their position and start using it not to make the community better, but to earn more, what about a common man who has abused his position for some small benefit in some remote part of our country? Nothing. There is nothing to say, honourable MPs, except for one single finding – corruption is an evil that devises every honest human effort and that evil must be cut into the root, if we want to become a stable democratic society and build institutions that will lead Serbia to progress and progress. Faced with this evil, the current coalition government as one of the basic principles of the programme that emerged from the coalition treaty cited the principle of fighting organised crime and corruption. It should be noted that in this area the observed result of the government in general has been achieved, and particularly the result of the MUP which, by nature of this portfolio, has the most work to do in clearing up the accumulated problems arising from various corruption affairs. In this sense, it is right to say that this government of the Republic of Serbia is very consistent and open in the fight against corruption and that the measures it is taking are significantly stopping this growing social evil. In this regard, the Law establishing the Anti-Corruption Agency, which the Government has proposed, and adopted, and which entered into force on 1 January this year, represents the true meaning of the word system law that defines many important issues in the field of public functions and regulates that no one can perform a public or state function that is in conflict with its other functions, affairs or private interests, and that the existence of conflict of interest and responsibility in its resolution is determined by this law. However, in the right months of application of this law, the Proposer observed the need for certain provisions of this law to be specified in order to apply it more correctly and, in particular, to prescribing the procedure for the termination of functions in case a person performs two public or state functions, contrary to the provisions of the law. In addition, it is noted that it is necessary to supplement certain provisions relating to the performance of other work or activity during the exercise of public office, as well as provisions which will specify the transfer of management rights during the exercise of public function and the prohibition of the establishment of a working relationship or of business co-operation at the time of termination of public office. For these reasons, the proposer submitted a proposal to amend and supplement this law, in which the definitions and categories of persons to which the law applies. The term "functioner" and "public function" have been defined as well as the powers of the Anti-Corruption Agency, deadlines designed to eliminate conflicts of interest and many other issues. It is right to say that the proposed amendments to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act have significantly improved the content of this law, particularly in the accuracy and definition of the legal norms and categories to which the law applies, but also in the field of labour definition and competence of the Anti-Corruption Agency itself. Starting with the fact that I have already elaborated and that I am confident that everyone in this room will agree that corruption is one of the highest problems on the path of our social prosperity, it is unequivocally necessary to have a good law and stable institutions that, acting under this law, will eliminate corruption from our lives and consciousness on a socially negligible scale and on individual occasions. In this regard, I am convinced that the proposed amendments to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act represent a useful step in the way of our common fight against corruption. That is why the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43036	The word has an MP named Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43037	Dear Vice President, dear minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, listening to the previous speakers really gets the inspiration to spread a lot of stories rather than the way it was imagined. We must, Madam Minister, point out that because of the government's relationship, we come to a situation like this, on the one hand, that the former government is attacking you for certain things, on the other hand, that the current ruling majority is critical of both the Government and the Anti-Corruption Agency, that the representative of the largest parliamentary group in the ruling majority is some of the things that you, together with us, would like to try to explain. First of all, the European laws in this assembly and in the interests of this country and the citizens of this country are not only brought in to become part of the EU, but are adopted in order to accept the values that have been brought into life in the EU and which have done from the EU what it is. The fundamental observation that comes to us from the EU or the European Commission is that there is systemic corruption. You know that very well. Several times there have been attempts to keep it from one of the vice-presidents of the Republic of Serbia in the past term and in this one, but it is a fact that exists. What's the source of corruption? That's what my colleague was talking about as an authorised promoter, but that's what we've been talking about for a year and a change of days. The biggest source of corruption is 595 public enterprises, i.e. 585 losers. What we are proud of in the LDP, as I am, is that LDP has nominated people, i.e. by providing support in Belgrade, by forming a coalition where she has taken responsibility, not by party membership. So, no LDP official is on either the board of directors or the director of a public enterprise. That is the essence of what we have the right to talk about, unlike some others, whose godfathers, the former Prime Minister, had a monopoly on the whole story in NIS when it comes to marketing. So much for that. What compromises this government is the laws, Madam Minister, which in the last few months and the last few weeks have come to this assembly. First of all, the law that tries to revive the construction industry. Public procurement is abolished, so public procurement is suspended in the area. The law of eight members brought by Oliver Dulic here before us. A week later, Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic comes with a law where something is again passed that every citizen of this country can interpret in his own way, but it is also a source of corruption. Whoever wants to build a bigger mall than two thousand squares, along with the warehouse, has to contact the minister directly. Then we get into a situation where a law is passed in this assembly that derogates the Expropriation Act. So a lex specialis is adopted and a law is passed in addition to the Expropriation Act allowing one company, which is only 25% owned by the Republic of Serbia, an expropriation on land, 160km in southern Serbia. When such laws come to you then, as a member of an extended working group for the development of the law on the financing of political parties, last Friday I had the opportunity to hear from the president of the Agency that certain changes that were made by GRECO were very forceful. I am interested in what GRECO would say to Article 29 of this Law, which is a fact that talks about Article 82, and where it says it is changing and it is said – the Agency, upon receipt of the notice, determines whether the exercise of public functions, i.e. by performing business or activity, is a threat to the impartial exercise of public office. So it was given back to the Agency to determine. So here we have ministers who can determine who will be able to build, who will be able to moth, who will be able to build and open malls beyond any competition. We now have an Agency that will be able to do such a thing. What's really burning my ears here, it's the representatives of the ruling majority. Number one, we have heard here that there is no conflict of public and public interest. I think that everyone will agree with me that there is a conflict of public and public interest as long as someone exercises executive and legislative authority at the same time, and I would like you to explain to the representatives of the ruling majority, or the largest group in this assembly. So we have more cases like this. Mr. Bortic, the minister from your party, Mr. Pera Skundric, resigned as president of the NIS Assembly. On the one hand, he has an executive function, on the other hand he has a legislative function. Again you have a member of your ruling majority who at the same time has a legislative function and an executive function, so there is another one. Tell me, is there a conflict of public and public interest if someone is at the head of a company that is 100% state-owned, and is located on the board of directors of a company that is 25% state-owned, at the same time also an MP? Is there a conflict of interest? Is there a conflict of interest if someone's mayor and an MP? So we think that all these laws, like this one, don't get me wrong, it's not personal to you, it's due to the following thing – that the weight of meat is being slaughtered. Because of one particular case, because of one particular company, such as the Expropriation Act, because of one particular company, such as the law passed by Slobodan Milosavljevic, because of one particular inability to accept the reality that the Law on Planning and Construction is inconclusive, it brings some other law, in fact because of some small thing, conditionally speaking, repairs, we are doing great damage. That's what we want to draw your attention to. I'm deeply convinced that you, I've seen by your reaction, understand what we're talking about. As an LDP, we had no intention of dealing with these individual cases, which we think is completely absurd to put them here in the first place. We know that there is certainly a great desire for you to deal with corruption in every way. It's undeniable. But in this way and in the way this law was found, in the end line, in front of the MPs, placed on the agenda, withdrawn, whatever it was, it's just doing the same thing with the Duke's Statute. It's been a year. Of course, then you give the opportunity and opportunity to those political inexperiences to make a political story out of it and, of course, everything is legitimate and all right, but you're doing more damage to yourself than benefit. When I tell myself, I mean, first of all, you're still executive power. There are other things we could talk about, but since time does not allow, I would just like, if you have time and opportunity later, at least to clarify this matter: is it possible in practice in Serbia that there is a conflict between public and public interest? Why isn't that good? Why did we draw attention here, as well as other colleagues? To confirm to us once again unequivocally that this will not be a law because of certain individual cases, but that, when we now adopt the rules that we determine, these rules will also apply in the future, no matter who will be in power in 2012 or what year, when otherwise the first wars of some loans begin to reach us, how well this is designed. But to create one rule and because of these rules, there will be less corruption and, of course, do not think you, but the ruling majority, or executive power, do everything to do, although I know that these sources are great, but that public enterprises are privatized and it will be the best fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43038	Nine minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. The word has an MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry, this law we are discussing today should be one of the most important laws in the field of fighting corruption, but unfortunately it has failed. It failed because those who passed this law showed that it was legal that the law they had passed was not respected. These changes and additions show best the government's relationship to corruption on the one hand, and on the other hand to the long-founded rules of democratic order and the rule of law. As far as corruption is concerned, it is clear that Serbia is on the right practically European bottom. I ask the question – what is the government doing to fix this situation? Is that in any way worrying her? Did she do anything to repair our position on that scale? With these changes and additions, the government is in a more direct way jeopardizing our position by actively encouraging corruption and not preventing it. That's exactly the example of these changes and additions to the law. I must say, it should not be forgotten that just to tolerate conflicts of interest and the existence of conflicts of interest is the foundation and basis of corruption itself. To remind, this law was passed in October 2008, and began to apply on 1 January 2010. The first of April 2010 expired when officials themselves had to decide which function to hold, and what functions to give up. To remind you, it wasn't the vast majority that did it, only a few of the officials did it and, most importantly, no one was sanctioned for it. This has sent a very clear message to officials that the law that has been passed and is not obliged to be implemented, and they are absolutely able to set themselves in the way they want it to be. Now, in the meantime, the public is fully aware of what is happening and the public is completely open about it. Therefore, the government proposes these amendments and additions to the law, in order not only to seemingly resolve the situation, and the main objective and interest of adopting this law is to meet the demands of the army of small profiteers, who either have a huge blackmailing potential, or, to be completely ironic, are members of the same party. Now that this bill is a matter of law, here is the key article 11. The bill, which, in fact, opposes the Constitution, laws on conflict of interest, all with one intention: to allow the province's MPs to perform all other functions than the function of the MP. Thus, the political, but not legally created an illusion of resolving the situation in Vojvodina, where the province's MPs, with the protection of the ruling states they belong to, would show that they are stronger than the law and that the law can at any time play. Of course, someone could be ironic and say that the effort to play the law itself eventually paid off. Now, here is the power in this same Article 11. The bill has shown that in the case of the abolisation of the province's MPs, power does not even stem from the violation of the constitution. Even my presentation is about Article 11. The bill, I think he's the key to all this. In fact, Article 11 of the Law allows the official elected as a public office to perform directly other public functions directly elected by the citizens, unless it is in direct conflict with the Constitution itself. I will remind you that our constitutional and legal system provides for only four functions to which the official can be directly elected by the citizens themselves: it is a committeeman, a provincial MP, a MP and, of course, the President of the Republic. The Constitution further states in Article 102 that the MP cannot be at the same time a circuit MP, that he cannot be a member of the executive body, nor to be a judicial official, or to perform other tasks, tasks and duties that are under the law of conflict of interest. What does that mean? This means that the legislator in this bill had the obligation to elaborate on giving a member of the Constitution, that is, Article 102, and to provide for other functions that are incompatible with the public function, and contrary to the law, the fact that the legislator refused to do so. We now have a situation that is completely unsolved. I will remind you that it is not disputed in practice, because as such, there is not a single province MP who at the same time performs the duty of the MP, but there is a much more controversial situation, where the province's MPs perform many functions in the executive government, and that is exactly what we expected the legislator to solve, and he has not, in fact, solved these amendments and amendments to the Law. Now, to make things worse, I'm just going to go into the analysis of these positions of Article 11, where you're going to see how unnatural they are in themselves with the very spirit of this law. In Article 11(2), it is also unacceptable that the official who has been elected, appointed or appointed to another post and who apparently intends to perform several functions is now seeking agreement within three days of the Agency for this. We have a situation that one official has already been elected and has entered into another function, and that clearly there has been a accumulation of the functions themselves, and there is the possibility of a conflict of interest, and that when the matter is already finished, he is seeking the consent of the Agency. Well, isn't it naturally logical and normal for him to seek the consent of the Agency before running for office, as was foreseen by the still applicable law? So anyone who had any intention of not allowing a conflict of interest had to predict a solution like this. In Section 8, it also deviates from a clear standard that a function that is in conflict of interest by force of the law ceases to function to which he was later elected. We now have a situation here that such a norm no longer exists where the official himself will request an opinion from the Agency, the Agency will decide on it. As far as the very essence of this law is played, it is also best to show the provision where sublegal acts are said not by the Agency, but by the Director of the Agency, by law, to make or so to determine all those public functions that a public official can perform without asking for the consent of the Agency. I don't think this was supposed to be the intention of this bill, but that it was meant in a clearer way to formulate what a conflict of interest is and what a deaccumulation of functions themselves is. Also, a retroactive amendment of Article 82 is proposed. I will remind you that the 82nd member who said that on April 1st is the last deadline until every official has to identify what function he will perform and which he will leave. None of the officials, or if it was done it was done by individuals, and that couple, they didn't do it, and they weren't even punished for it. So now the legislator in this way wants to mutilate the solution that was already a violation in the beginning. As a result, there is no longer such a kind of responsibility where the legislator himself does not foresee it, and of course the authority of the Agency itself, which had to comply with this provision of the law and to make it a clear rule that there is no breach of it. How many confusing provisions are contained in this bill and how far the deviation from the legal logic of this bill is contained, I think it is clear to some mediocre lawyer. This, unfortunately, seems the game of democracy in Serbia today and this is what it looks like to play with basic principles which at least, while these powers, must be so tailored that they are absolutely subordinated to them. I'm sorry that Mrs. Minister always has to defend the defenseless and hot potatoes in her hands today, but I have to be completely honest, that I'm much more sorry about the consequences of such proceedings on society.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43040	Ten minutes and 10 seconds of Parliament time. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43041	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, because a letter in the language sense is controversial and means something else in my understanding of the word. So, at the beginning of the year, we had the practice of reading in the newspaper the lists of Serbian rich people and the source of that information were mostly the exact data and the exact reports that were presented to us by the Administration of Revenue. So, according to whoever paid the tax and did business perfectly legally, we had a chance to see who made the money legally, and who saw with his naked eye that he had something, and we don't know how he got it. Two decades later, we were convinced that the Tax Administration was not exactly a precise register of those who had and worked and reading such reports had simply lost interest. Our more prominent Serbs realized that there are tax havens, where money can be fully unpunished, not taxed, but actually be a rich man. That category includes the first two of those old people, who rented political power into material prosperity, and that other group of people who through the gray zone, where they don't directly decide on the appointments of people in government, but indirectly affect government decisions, the legal proposals that the government delivers to us here, were people who knew skillfully that the shortcuts acquired enormous property. In that part of the job, the government failed to form control authorities to create control authorities that must not succumb to disease to self-refuse their function. Each control body quickly identifys its control function with the interest of the community, forgetting that their personal vision is not the vision of society, community and law that we are making. Instead of preventing such a practice, you are giving this law the right to the Director of the Agency that he, who opposed that the law did not have the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency, so it had to be withdrawn, should interpret the opinions of the law which, according to the previous legal solution, check that it is actually applied in the way it is prescribed. Is there any other law under which the director of such an institution has the right to impose measures for breach of the law and to adopt, at the same time, an opinion which again obliges him to apply the law of procuring the measure? You're a lawyer, there's a lot of lawyers here, you have to admit that this Article 3, by which the right is given to the Director of the Agency, is completely pointless. In the discussion in particular, we will talk about pointless situations in which we can find her on the appointment of a deputy director, to whom, by the way, it is not as much an increased salary as the director requires for himself. If someone initiates the discharge procedure of the Director of the Agency, what will happen if he solves the deputy, and you have a bunch of such documents where the Agency needs to agree whether anyone can perform another function, along with one that is legally prohibited or prescribed. So, instead of regulatory bodies and control bodies serving a law that should have good intentions, we have a law that's confusing, so indeed, someone said, we're bringing into the same level of abuse of millions of budget cuts by sitting directly, and you're having an indirect impact on these budgets with your political power. You're equating it with a member of the school board and a board member. It's not right for that kind of unification to offend society's efforts to fight corruption. It is not right for MPs in the Assembly to call for news reports on abuses, because neither is it a more credible source, perhaps there is a greater freedom of the press or more time to discuss it, instead of talking in the institutions of the system in principle about ways to create conditions for corruption and to eliminate these and such ways and abuses. As rough as it sounds, we really live in a time of captive state, how someone smart defined it a long time ago. And in such a way that, especially at the time of privatisation, certain groups and individuals put their private interests above the state, above the institutions and above the law. Since 2001, since the privatisation began to apply, the state has failed, nor has it shown a serious intention to end this kind of abuse of public interest and orderly private. Do I have to remind you only by sounding headlines: "G17 is funded from the Seishel Islands"; "Who washed the dirty money through the privatisations? "What year has the obligation to show origin and prove the origin of money for participation in privatisation ceased? What ministers were then looking for this evidence, and when was that obligation lost in 2003? It's also the government's state business, executive bodies, judicial and other. It's not just this law that can fight corruption. The most impressive example is that the government has no intention of fighting, I do not assure the citizens that the government has no intention of fighting, and there is too much evidence of it, but the striking evidence of it was the moment when the Government Act was written that a member of the Government could not deal with the work that is incompatible with the duties of a member of the Government. We then chose Mr Djelic again in this government, who proved to the millions of suspicions exactly that kind of abuse of privileged information and dealing with business where this information is being misused. At that same time, as today, every citizen, who is fortunate not to work on black but regular, has a Article 161 and 162 of his labour contract, where he is prohibited from working under the Labour Act for two years after leaving the company in which he worked, because he can abuse connections, phonebooks, business contacts, and acquired technological or any other knowledge. Does this government pass laws that are equal for everyone in that lifetime when we say that someone is responsible for the abuse or violation? We are several times already changing the law we are fighting, allegedly, against corruption, so that, for example, we will now have a very precise definition in Article 12 of the opportunity to perform functions on a political site, or another political entity during public office. What law so precise determines the right to accumulate functions, political functions as merits, e.g. to be an MP, then a member of a board of directors or supervisors, and at the same time you have a political activity that's actually a prerequisite for you to get that function, and you make it nice and precise here when and how possible and that it's not a conflict of interest at all. You're here saying that the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee can increase the salary, but that it must not be a member of the political party, because if it is, it will be resolved. Who will support the members of that board who chooses the director if not the political parties, and we know that this is the choice? That is why the people say: "Stirring dust into their eyes." Or deleting from the record, at present, temporarily, while such a member of the board will be formal proof that he is politically independent and thus neutral, professional or not know what, or in this long solution, Article 15, where it is said that the provision of Article 33 is complemented by the fact that a ban on the establishment of a company or other public service during the exercise of a public office applies only to officials whose function requires full-time work? What rule defines which function is established with full time or can be done voluntarily, or with four hours, or as paid or as unpaid? There are no general rules, as we were talking about the Rules of Procedure here – the Assembly may have as many vice presidents as it decides. Even an earlier provision that it was a maximum of six, and it satisfied all DOS appetites the fastest possible coalitions, we have now erased that there is no upper limit. In every area of life, in every area that we define by law becomes more and more a rule – there are no exceptions to general behavior. This law just proves it by the way it proves, promoting greed as a desirable way of behaviour, permanently destroying the system of values where you tell the young people next – you can run over the bestid, who are willing to perform the functions of hundreds of members of the council, committees, authorities, commissions, as well as those you call officials, only if they say volunteer or perform these functions unpaid or with shorter working hours than full time. At the moment when we are a country struggling with an exceptional number of unemployed, when our unsustainable employment and pensioners relationship, we have a cumulation of functions, we have superhumans who in 24 hours know smart, working and wise to do so many jobs and ask us for support for such a law, where with delays, multiple, I speak eight years ago, and despite the laws we've passed, the organs that have been changed, you leave a deadline, the first nine, for deciding which function to leave. The sentence I'm finishing my presentation is – we have to build a society where we won't allow someone to step on to survive, but you have to realize that whoever has a lot can't enjoy illegally acquired a lot while there are poor around them. Mrs. Malovic, let me remind you, in our debate on judicial experts, when I assured you that you should take care of the way invaluableness is assessed, begging you as one lady, a mother, an esteemed lawyer, to amend the amendments and not allow someone to play with incompetence in return, because of all those unfairly damaged, raped, murdered, three days later, we had in return such a case in Beocino, not to mention a disgusting crime where the girl was raped. It is no longer just a matter of prevention, and here there must be a matter of prevention, and criminal policies and the failure of the possibility that because of political peace on one side we have people who don't know what function they're going to get before, so the other line in the ministries writes laws, interprets laws, makes them unsuccessful, sometimes here, when they come to the Assembly, rich and funny before us MPs, because the ministers are trying to get to the hundreds of pages, because their associates are trying to get to the hundred sides, and some young schooled and learned say, "I'd rather go abroad to wash the courts than wait here for someone's party book to get a job or, if I get it, that because of mobbing, I have to leave it. Please, look, listen to what the other MPs have to say to you. We are not opposition to our people, our children and our future.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43042	Fifteen minutes and ten seconds. Now, on the basis of Article 85, I'm setting this daily break of one hour. This afternoon's work will continue at 3:10 p.m., and by addressing Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic's MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43043	Dear People's MPs, we continue the session's work in the afternoon debate in the order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word, in principle on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, followed by the National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the MPs of the SRS in recent years say that this authority adopts laws that are not in practice, we are almost always criticised that as an opposition, we are baselessly criticising the authority that adopts those laws. Recently, all newspapers have been able to read about the impressive results of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, about a large number of passed laws in this assembly of parliament, about stories that even the government is lagging behind parliament at the moment. They are indisputable allegations relating to the quantity. However, the problem of quality is discriminatory. But then, when a law is passed and effective, it really happens too often that it is not in practice or applied in part. The application of this very important law, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, speaks in favour of what I'm talking about and confirms how often the law and the Constitution are broken in Serbia. I think it is only good to return briefly to October 7, 2008, meaning a little less than two years when the National Assembly adopted a bill on the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is now changing and supplementing. Presenting the law to the MPs, Minister Malovic said the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, adopted by the National Assembly, envisioned that a separate law should establish an independent and independent body that will oversee the implementation of the strategy and action plan, co-ordination of state authorities in the fight against corruption, implement regulations in the area of conflict resolution of interest and control of political party financing and election campaigns. Furthermore, the UN Convention against Corruption, which has been ratified by our country, envisions the formation of an independent body to prevent corruption, so the legislative proposal represents the fulfillment of international obligations, as well as the application of a national strategy. In addition, some of the country's mandatory recommendations to combat corruption in the Council of Europe, a body known as GRECO, will be met. From the ruling coalition's MPs, we heard then that conflict of interest is not the same as corruption, but that conflict of interest precedes corruption and that in every form of corruption there is a conflict of interest; further, it is the interest of Serbia to deal with corruption, because it is a huge evil that devours the very foundations of a democratic society, including the economy; that the law will create a basis for a serious fight against this monster, and that it is one of the reasons and a harmonisation of our legislation in this area with EU standards, as a premise for Serbia's accession to the EU. Let's just remind ourselves that the application of this law only started on 1 January 2010. Because some provisions do not want to be complied with, MPs have been amended and added to the law. No doubt the law will be amended, because when you have a majority, then you literally can do anything. But is the majority who may have asked themselves – are these changes in line with the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, are they within the framework of the mandatory recommendations made by GRECO and how it will respond in such a desired Europe, and was it sufficient to forget everything that was said in the adoption of the law? The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has most clearly defined that one person cannot be a member at the same time in the bodies of the legislative and executive authorities. The fact is that such phenomena, which directly violate the Constitution, were before the Act on the Anti-Corruption Agency entered into force. The entry into force of this law provided that only one public function could be performed by the official, unless the law and other regulation required him to perform more public functions. The exception of this is that it is possible to perform another, based on the consent of the Agency and the positive opinion obtained by the authority which has chosen it, appointed or appointed it public (Article 28). Laws). We have heard before in the debate that after 1 January of this year, when the law was applied, it was clearly formulated that within 90 days a official who performs more public functions at that time is obliged to declare which public function will be carried out further (Article 82).). I'll repeat what I said at the beginning. In Serbia, laws are passed so that they are not respected. In the case of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, these two members were difficult to respect. Because of these difficulties, here are before the National Assembly of Amendments and Supplements, however, on the second occasion, because in the first attempt, the proposal for changes and additions was withdrawn from the agenda. It was at the previous emergency session, when the proposal was also sent by emergency procedure, as it is now. Some large things were foreseen by these changes, and these are the two members mentioned above. It was envisaged that Article 28 of the amendment would be specified, among other things: firstly, that the ban on performing multiple functions would not apply to officials elected directly by the citizens and that the official elected, appointed or appointed to another function contrary to the provisions of this law, after 1 January 2010, the later function would cease by force of the law. This clearly wanted the law to apply to those officials who had started several functions before the law was applied, although the law clearly defined that they would be applied to them. This is also accompanied by a proposal to delete a member whose obligation has been clearly defined, Article 82. I've already listed what it says, so I won't say it again. There was a withdrawal from the assembly procedure, and the reason is likely to be the response of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Some adjustments have been made, and now this proposal has defined Article 82, which will not be deleted, but now obliges those who, by 1 April, mean 90 days since the application of the law, have not acted according to the law, to inform the Agency which all functions, jobs or activities are carrying out, and the Agency will decide whether they are in conflict of interest. Here is now a very logical question – if the determination of the Republic of Serbia is a serious fight against corruption, as the representatives of the government have said, should this fight be bowed down just when it comes to them, because we all know who the officials are chosen directly from the citizens? Should their personal interests be put ahead of all citizens and how will citizens trust someone who is put above the law? These changes are an open position for individuals above the law and above the citizens. Another amendment to Article 28 has been provided for, and what is not good is that it is also retained in this amendment and supplemental proposal, which is now before us, and refers to the fact that for certain categories of officials, the Director of the Agency may, by means of a general act, establish other public functions that officials can perform without the consent of the Agency under Article 5(5). This solution is not good, as the Director of the Agency could adopt general acts suspending legal norms. Let's go back to the debate almost two years ago, when the Anti-Corruption Agency Act was passed. So much has been said that the establishment of the Agency will provide citizens with information on the property of officials, which will be managed by this Agency in the form of a register, that it will all be public that it cannot be more public. I'll quote again how the Minister presented it at the time. "I would particularly like to highlight the provisions on reporting property officials. The obligation for officials is established to report within 30 days of the date of entry into office to the Agency on their property and property of certain members of their family." I'm stressing this specifically, and I'm going to say why later. "Article 45. The bill sets out obligations for officials, who will also have to submit an extraordinary report on property, as well as a report following the termination of public office. The agency will manage the register of property of the officials, and data relating to salaries and other revenue from the budget, rights to immovable property and means of transport, savings deposits and the use of apartments for official purposes will be public. You file reports on the property of the officials will be checked by the Agency. "I particularly stressed in the quote – certain members of my family, because I want to make a comparison between the data previously submitted to the Committee for the Resolution of Conflicts of Interest with the data now submitted to the Anti-Corruption Agency. Earlier data were submitted on their property, on the property of spouses and blood relatives in the right line, as they will say – about the property of parents and children. The official now submits, in addition to his data, only more information on the property of a married or out of wedlock partner and underage children with whom he lives in the same household. So no data is submitted on the property of parents and adult children. That's how you found a way to hide the property. Of course, for those who want to hide. Those who do not want to hide anything, who in the past years have reported the property of all their members, now and that they will not be able to report it, because in the form everything is clearly defined what is needed, i.e. which field is entered in. For example, when someone on the Agency's website looks at the report on my property, he might think I'm living under some pear or apple, because the apartment I live in is the property of my close relative, not my property. It's in a report I filed with the Anti-Corruption Agency. However, when I had submitted to the Republic Committee for the Resolution of Conflicts of Interest, it could be seen clearly in whose apartment I live. Now these data are not being entered into the report and the picture is completely wrong. This apartment space thing is not so bad, although the Agency's website register can show that there are officials who own their own name more apartments than family members. But what is allowed to be hidden by not publishing the assets of the closest relatives, is that although much is said about the availability of data to the public, it is possible to hide whose parents are the owners of companies and what companies they are. Let's say there are cases that the parents of a functioner, the mother of one company, the father of another, and their two firms have re-established a "daughter" company, etc. By the way, the register only publishes the data of the functioner, not the marriage partner or the out wedlock partner and underage children, although these data are something that was recorded in the report. So they're listed but they're not published. This is proof that the public information story about the property of public officials is really pointless. I will end this discussion with what we are talking about corruption can't really get around, which is the privatisation process in Serbia that was carried out in the worst possible way, in which the best and most valuable Serbian enterprises are sold into depravity. There are smaller numbers of those who work, but with an incredibly small number of workers, while most workers end up in the labour market, there is no job today and the question is whether they will ever have it. There are a lot more companies that do not work after privatisation, or work, but new owners do not comply with the obligations of the purchase contract. Some of these contracts break up, the damage is huge, the workers are mostly suffering, and the state has lost a lot of revenue in the process that should have been invested in the creation of new jobs. What is a key issue for all those who claim to truly want to root out corruption in Serbia – who are the winners in this unfair privatisation process? What officials came out after the process with an asset that is rude to show up in their property cards and maps of their close relatives, so it had to be in the light of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act that somehow hides it from Serbian citizens, whose next day is much worse than the previous one.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43045	14 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has a folk MP Zlata Djeric, followed by a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, we have before us amendments and additions to the laws that have never properly managed to revive, because this is exactly the key thing why this law was passed - the fight against corruption, these amendments and the additions of the law will in this way get a kind of legalisation. The law was passed in 2008, and very transparently, a European law was discussed for which Serbia cried out. And it is certain that Serbia is crying out for the anti-corruption law. However, it turns out that the Law that has been passed and should be applied to certain people does not actually have the power of the law and they are above that law and we are now attending the end of that law in their favour. We have seen and heard that by April 1st, those officials who have more functions should have returned the extra functions, had the right to choose one of the functions, at least one, but it happened that only individual cases, minor in their numbers, mean, below the number of fingers on one hand, did so, and that the vast majority, or the largest number of them, kept it and no one could do anything to them. They can do something and they're asking for the law to turn in their favor and that's exactly how the law ends. We have a direct case of an individual above the law, including an individual above the state, an individual who is politically powerful enough to influence in this country so that what he has capitalized through his political work continues to capitalize, and that to that end he will put himself in his service all the instruments of the Government – I speak in his, thinking of several of them, of course – and in this case even the Ministry of Justice. So, the changes to this law in all the members where there are fundamental regrets, not termologically, I'm talking about those political entities, etc., are not so problematic, except for a few members who are really destroying the basic thought and the fundamental intention in the fight against corruption that is so important to Serbia. It is this law that says, if the fight against corruption is real, and corruption is otherwise such a phenomenon that in its realization it tends to bring down justice, justice, justice system or the Ministry of Justice, then this law should be dealt with by this kind of corruption, where, again, someone, excluding himself, can be out and above this law. We came back to that Orwell truth that before the law everyone was just equal, and when we get to that truth from Animal Farm, we'll get to that truth from '84' very soon, and I don't want this Serbia to start looking like Orwell's psychic visions that we had.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43047	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, followed by MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43048	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would begin with one absurdity, and the absurd is that the Law was passed in October 2008, when it came into force, that it began to apply on 1 January 2010 and here we are now in July 2010, when the existing Law is being amended and complemented. When you look at this law, then you ask what it really wants to change, what it really wants to do about basic law. I'd put those changes in at least three categories. The first would include changing members of a purely technical nature, in which the Agency is actually engaged itself. For example, Article 3 wants to amend Article 7 decides to increase the director's salary. Or Article 24, which amends Article 62, also concerns something that is the Agency's issue again, so the Agency oversees the implementation of the Strategy, the Action Plan and sectoral action plans. Business operators designated by the Strategy, Action Plans, etc. They are obliged to deliver a quarterly report to the Agency. So we could list at least 4-5 members who do, and otherwise this whole law has 30 members. The second group of amendments includes some general places, which means that if the law is carefully read and the law is to be implemented, then the existing law does not need to be amended. Article 2 The draft law on amendments and additions that amends Article 5 and speaks, for example, of political entities continues in fact to list in accordance with the law which has problems with conflict of interest, and in addition to political parties there are also political entities. These political entities can be found, for example, in Article 12, 13, 20. So there are 4-5 members dealing with these political entities. In the third group, I would classify members who deal with increased penalties. So, if one member is referring to transitional provisions, in this case, the bulk of the law deals with something that is truly irrelevant and irrelevant, given the danger of corruption that exists in our society. By carefully reading this law, I believe that one member here is the most important. It is a Article 11 that amends an existing Article 28. I can only comment on this change, that this change could easily have been avoided, that when the law was made, the situation with the number of functions of individual officials was taken into account, so it is absolutely unnecessary for the Assembly to deal with amendments and additions to the existing Anti-Corruption Agency on this day. On this day, however, I have heard many times that corruption, conflict of interest, abuse of position, private interest, party interest. All of this when it is summed up then we can conclude that corruption remains a very big problem, that corruption exists in all the pores of society, that all forms of government from the smallest to the highest have a problem with corruption, and so the grain local self-government, in which the city's budget remained in short supply of at least over a billion dinars after the mayor left with a vision, so that local self-government has severe problems to solve the burning municipal problems of the city of Zrenjanin. It's one of the evidence that corruption is a big problem. Corruption can be won. Corruption can be eradicated, at least in its largest part, if the institutions work, unless the institutions are passive. We also have a National Anti-Corruption Strategy. We also have a law that regulates conflict of interest. We also have the Agency to take care of this conflict of interest, and yet we still have a very high position on the world level as far as the corruption of society is concerned. Therefore, it is not the laws that are the biggest problem but whether these laws will be implemented in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43049	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43050	The President-in-Office, honourable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have indeed heard incredible arguments during this debate today by representatives of the ruling coalition why this law should be supported. I think that's the kind of reasoning we've heard today we haven't been able to hear in some previous cases because this law refers to the situation that individual officials should retain their functions. We heard there was no conflict of public and public interest. We've heard local self-government isn't the government. We've heard that conflict of interest is not corruption. We heard that we didn't know what the consequences of this law would be when we adopted him on the matter of functionors. Let me remind you, local, regional and republican elections were held in May. Local, regional and republican authorities formed by the end of July. The original text of the law was passed in October. This government did not know how to predict all possible situations in the application of this law and this speaks of the short-sighted policy that is being conducted in this domain. Of course, in the end we heard an incredible thing that was all right, but it was still a matter of love between an individual and a state. We heard that in the end, probably in the love of an individual or a citizen of state functions. Of course, we heard a confession from the party's biggest ruling party that this is a step back. This is a major step back from the text adopted in 2008 and I believe that Minister Malovic himself knows that today defends the indefensible matter. This cannot be defended in any way, except in the reasoning we heard from the ruling coalition's representatives, which is to preserve the accumulation of functions that were prevented in the original text of the law. Now that we look at who has gotten involved in amending this law, how the debate has been under way within the ruling coalition and the institutions that have interfered to make changes to this law, then it will all be clear. Basically, we have a dispute between the Justice Ministry and the Anti-Corruption Agency. He was released, on the one hand, by giving an opinion that was already present in the application of this law, and at the same time, while that opinion was given, the Agency initiated proceedings. The key thing and the key trigger for amending this law was given by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court suspended its provisional action initiated by the Anti-Corruption Agency and gave the right to those who tried to prevent the application of this law. What the Constitutional Court has done has now been translated specifically into Article 29, which amends Article 82. The Constitutional Court thus prevented the law from being applied. In fact, it made it impossible for the law to be applied to all officials, explaining that there is no retroactivity. At the same time, the Constitutional Court makes a decision on committees where retroactivity is applied and participates in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in a strange way. We have one thing here that is absolutely inexplicable. Article 29. In some ways insults. The basic text of the law stated that by 1 April all officials with more than two functions must declare which function they hold. Other function i.e. The function they later acquired stops them. Now in this text, the amendments to the law he only has the obligation to notify by 1 September the Agency which performs all functions and activities. It's really amazing that you're offering us this kind of text. All officials in Serbia have notified the Agency what functions they perform by reporting their assets. The Agency shall have information on each functionor and on all functions which are now being performed. What are the officials going to deliver now? A thing the Agency already knows. Instead of applying the laws and procedures initiated by the Agency to cease functions that were subsequently acquired, the Agency's discretionary right now puts the possibility of deciding whether someone is in conflict of interest or not. It is a step back from the text of the law. It is absolutely certain that now, we have heard the announcement that there is no conflict between public and public interest, that if someone is an MP, at the same time a council member or president of the municipality, the mayor, is not a conflict of interest. It's the ruling coalition's position. We haven't heard from him in 2008 when this law was formally passed, but after a year and a half of alleged application, we have to take a step back and admit that thing. In the text of this proposal for a law, a specific category of person who can initiate the procedure shall be placed in an unequal position. Any citizen can initiate and file a report if there is any doubt that anyone is in conflict of interest. Why is it that a civil servant is asked to explain why he is initiating this procedure, if he has reason to believe? Why can't a civil servant like any citizen, who may even have a better chance of obtaining such information, start the procedure himself? No, he has to explain why such a procedure is in motion. Next, where's the step back? Article 31 is amended, where it has been said that by general act, the Agency prescribes where no agreement is required to perform more functions, and now that part is deleted, and it is said that certain categories of functioners can absolutely perform multiple functions. Of course, Article 11, which is extremely problematic, which empowers the Director to determine what other public functions are that officials can perform without the Agency's consent, which has not been the case so far, and then, instead of taking office as a function, the official requires consent from the Agency, now this law is apologising the fact that – if someone has found himself in that state, he has been elected to another function, we will assess whether he can remain in that function. You should have kept the solution that he says - you can't go to another function until you ask if there's a conflict of interest, and now you've already entered a conflict of interest, and then the Agency will evaluate it. Who can guarantee us that there will be no pressure on the Agency again that this is the fact that it is apologising, that it is not a conflict of interest? I don't think this kind of procedure, by norming an extremely important area, is a matter of general interest, and it's clear to everyone here. It is arranged here that, as the coalition representatives said at the end of the line, the current situation is maintained. A fundamental question for you, Minister Malovic, was this condition that occurred in May and June 2008, which we all knew after the elections, not known in October when the original text of the law was adopted? I knew it. Why was it not done then and could, but after two years of pressure, including all possible institutions to justify this situation, we come into a situation to change the text and thus, after all and all the articles in the media and all the engagements of institutions, to allow people who have found more functions to remain at these functions and thus to keep them in conflict of interest? I don't think this will be commendable to the ruling coalition. A law like this should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43051	Eight minutes and 30 seconds the time of the parliamentary group was used. It's available for five minutes and 20 seconds. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, already several of my colleagues have highlighted in the debates so far why they amend and supplement the law. The law's almost passed, it hasn't even started to fully apply. Unfortunately, we have one practice that even if we have a good idea, we often want to ruin it by bad law, and even when we pass a law like that, then we decide to play it and sabotage it. The amendments and additions to this law are nothing else. Worst of all, many colleagues have been grasping whether it is in accordance with the Constitution and what it is, etc., so what is executive power, what is judicial authority, what is legislative authority. We can say that local self-government, since most of this is going through the Law on conflict of interest, that is, the Anti-Corruption Agency, in the legal system and order of the Republic of Serbia, is a small country operating in accordance with this legal order and system. They have their own legislative authority, it's a congregation. They have their own executive power, the municipal council chaired by the mayor, or the president of the municipality. They even have certain cities and police in the executive system that have the right to apply force. They lead a criminal policy in the territory of their local self-government, they make decisions both in the administration and in the local self-government unit assembly that has the power of the law for their territory. It shows that there is a conflict of interest there, because the rules of play that determine how local self-governments function are regulated by the laws that are passed here in the Serbian Parliament. Here's a classic conflict of interest. The MP, who is also mayor, proves himself that there is a conflict of interest when he submits an amendment requiring the law to regulate the role of MP and mayor, or the president of the municipality, not in conflict of interest. The classic achievement of the conflict of interest, it's nothing else. Also, to clear up when it comes not only to local self-government, there are other conflicts of interest, even in the system of executive authorities and individual ministers. However, why is there a name of conflict of interest itself, and why should it be prevented and not always linked to corruption? Here, the Assembly has been sitting for several days, we have several other mayors or presidents of municipalities who are also MPs and now I ask – where are they now? So when the agenda is to be adopted, they come to push the button, they come out. When voting for the laws most propose, if they belong to the congregation majority, they come, vote for the laws and leave. Now I ask the question -- what is more important to them, the president of the municipality, or the mayor or the MP, because they can't be in two different places at one point? What function has been neglected? Isn't that an insult to those citizens who voted for the list if their representative doesn't sit, discuss and participate in the work of the Assembly because he has an obligation because he is the president of the municipality or mayor? Or, if he's here, how is he going to do the mayor's job or the president of the municipality, do his fellow citizens have the right to be angry with him if he sits here? It's this conflict of interest and the accumulation of functions. We have another very interesting situation here. Madam Minister, one of your colleagues is also the dean of a university, university, call whatever you want. To make things worse, it is from that area that he and the minister, from no other, and that same minister is proposing laws to the government that are in his jurisdiction, and can be said from the field of education. It is also he who adopts a certain act under the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, accreditation of individual universities as a minister. Now I ask the question – did he have a conflict of interest? If you look at his property map on the Anti-Corruption Agency site, I can't find him receiving a salary from the Republic of Serbia's budget. He'll say -- well, that's nice, I'm saving the citizens of Serbia, I don't want them to pay me. I ask the question – who does he work for? For those of us who voted for him, regardless of whether for or against, participated in the vote or for whoever paid him? Who does a minister like that work for? Isn't that a classic conflict of interest? It all seems to me that this is actually just a goal, like I said, to play law. I'll show you on another case. Your judges, whom you have chosen in such a strange way, appointed, appointed, do not know that they execute decisions of the Constitutional Court and are treating the Constitutional Court as an administrative dispute or an election dispute. Judges of the Administrative Court do so, so do the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which are final, executive and general binding. I see you're looking at me with a surprise. Next time, we can also read such acts and such nebuloses as they wrote, and I can only tell you that this is also a form of acting and the Constitution, and the Law on the Constitutional Court and the legal order, as this law that you have now proposed to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43053	Seven minutes and five seconds used by the MP's group. There are two minutes and 55 seconds left for the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Vjerica Radeta, followed by a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is likely that in the last two years no law has had as much media attention as the Law on the Anti-Crime Agency, and no law has allowed citizens to expect more and get absolutely nothing. You remember, and we all remember how long it's been waiting and how long it's been announced that information about property cards will appear, and then Mrs. Zorana Markovic, who you've painted in the stars, as someone who's absolutely independent, someone who's going to do the best in the world, showed up with data, so our ministers, if they're looking at what they've reported and what this agency has published, mostly living on a tree, sleeping on a branch, living off the air, driving on roller skaters. Because they don't get paid, they don't have cars, they don't have apartments. So, an absolute laxative was made, and the public explanation was that some poor secretary made another mistake, and she didn't get the data right. When this law was passed in 2008, we drew your attention that there was no need to bring more and to form the Anti-Corruption Agency, because we also had today's Anti-Corruption Council, two bodies that function in parallel with the same task. You, of course, do not think of you personally, Mrs Malovic, but of the regime, you did not like the way Mrs Verica Barac works, which, by the way, is politically distant from the SRS, but is the fact that she has gone into conflict with some high-ranking officials. You had to cut it off, then build this agency, and now you do something new. In that agency you kept some people who were also in the Council, so there is, for example, Slobodan Beljanski, who was from the time he was in that Anti-Corruption Council he was known for being in conflict of interest and today he is. The other day, the paper said he was getting both wages and pensions and making up for some job. In that agency is Cedomir Čupic, the famous "resilient". We've been dragged into all the pores of society. In the National Assembly, in the congregation's majority, Nenad Konstantinovic's cheer and dress, here is Cedomir Čupic, with you in the ministry, Mrs Malovic, Mr Homen, he leads politics, he comes out with attitudes, with what your ministry will do in advance. You're obviously just an icaban for him, you're just going somewhere where something needs to be signed, and the Ministry's policy is being run, so at least it's being presented in public. Or, for example, in this agency is Zoran Stojljkovic, who is also a professor, so the question is whether he is in conflict of interest, especially if the fact is given that this gentleman is very often fully politically colored and simply hides it, nor could he hide it, and he will. What you're trying to do with this law is very dangerous. I'm talking about amendments to the law. You are actually bringing a lex special to please Bojana Pajtic and a group of MPs in the AP Vojvodina parliament. That's more than obvious. The illustration works, just one example to tell you. The media also reported that some provincial parliamentarian Daniel Kovacic is defending that he is not in a conflict of interest, and he is an adviser at the agriculture ministry. And he says, "At the same time, I'm a personal advisor to the minister, I'm not an executive and I have no influence on the administration," and he says "it's not about nepotism, we're not family" and he "and when we talk about money, it's a matter of personal nature, it's a contract I signed and that's it". That's really amazing. If Mr. Sasa Dragin has personal advisors, as Daniel Kovacic says to himself, then he must pay for it himself, if he is unable to perform his job, he needs a personal advisor. If Mr. Kovacic is a consultant at the Ministry, then he can't say that the profit he receives there is a matter of personal nature. It's a lot of examples, of course. In the light of this law, you have called for Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that no one can perform a state or public function that is in conflict with its other functions, affairs or private interests, and that the existence of conflicts of interest and responsibility in its resolution is determined by the Constitution and law. This is good and this really says in the Constitution. Where, then, Mrs Malovic, now Article 11 of this bill, which essentially speaks of amendments to Article 28, where more than obvious is what we Serbian radicals claim to be, in this way, you are doing this law a service to individual officials, individual people, names and last names. You say, a public office elected directly from the citizens may, without the Agency's consent, perform more public functions to which it is elected directly from the citizens, except in cases of incompatibility established by the Constitution. Furthermore, the amendment of this member speaks, the official who has been elected, appointed or appointed to another public function and who intends to perform more functions at the same time is obliged to request the Agency's consent within three days of the day of the election, appointment or appointment. This is a real mockery of the law. So, instead of writing well, we have proposed to you by amendment, that immediately, within seven days, each person declares which of the functions he wants to perform not to be in conflict of interest, you leave the possibility for Slobodan Beljanski, Čupić, Stojiljković, etc., that they determine who he is and who is not in conflict of interest, or who can perform two public functions and who cannot perform two public functions. A moment ago, when you responded to some discussions of the MPs, you mentioned how good it was that we now live in time, unlike in the 1990s, when there was no awareness of corruption, at least now there is this consciousness. You set an example of those 1990s, selling foreign exchanges on the street. Mrs. Malovic, yes, there has been sales of foreign exchanges on the street, it is illegal, but Mrs. Malovic, ever since there's been awareness of corruption, as you say, since then, there's been an affair and a corruption affair of Sartid, cements, sugars, Luka Belgrade, Novosti, Belgrade Airport, TC Usce, I apologize to all the controversial businessmen I've forgotten about this list. All affairs to the affair, all corruption to corruption. The greatest example of corruption, Mrs. Malovic, is unfortunately here in this hall, in this House. For two years, there has been one group that you from the ruling majority stole from the mandates of the SRS, which you from the ruling majority promoted to MPs, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, you've done it out of your well-known political interests. They did it for money. Is there more corruption than that? Now someone who is part of that corruption chain or who is at the head of that corruption chain deceives the public by spreading the story that Vojislav Seselj has ordered an assassination against him, so he's also involved, and now I'm telling you as justice minister to keep an eye on you and I'm going to tell you what you need to pay attention to as justice minister, to clear up whether or not this is a corruption affair. Then there appears some alleged writers who were invented by Vukic and Simovic's lawyers, Cabrilo and Rašić, who we do not know who, and we from the SRS and the authorised lawyer Vojislav Seselj, cannot get the exact information that this is about, as Mrs Zagorka Dolovac does not respond to our daily emergency, Mrs Minister, I am now telling you both as a minister and as a member of the State Council of the Judiciary, daily receives an emergency, insisting on answering the question whose murder Vojislav Seselj ordered two or three years ago, as the media reported, as Vucic said to Nikolic, and this was brought to the public. Well, then Wolfie says he won't talk about it anymore, like he can talk when he wants to talk and when he won't talk. Who brought this message from The Hague? Mrs. Malovic, I ask you to, on the basis of what you are, the responsibility of the ministry on which you are headed, first of all, to calm down the public and help us to get answers to all these questions. That's part of your job, and that's how it relates to this law we're discussing today, because we also claim in the lawsuits filed by Dragan Todorovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Elena Bozetan and I have raised our reasonable doubts, but we ask that the authorities make a statement. So we expect you to answer these questions and help us get to the right data, and as far as this law is concerned, this Lex specialist who goes with the Statute and Omnibus related to AP Vojvodina, we said and we will say all the worst because this is a very dangerous precedent, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43055	Twelve minutes of MP time was used. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić – Marković. Time is available for five minutes and 20 seconds, followed by MP Zoran Antic, time available for two minutes and 55 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43056	Madam Chairman, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, as a system law governing issues of conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions, adopted in October 2008, came into force in January 2010, and today, six months after its application, already shows very serious shortcomings and therefore enters into its changes and additions. What are his shortcomings looking at? It is now quite clear that the large number of first duchy officials, who perform more public functions and are very emotionally attached to these functions, are unable to decide which ones they want to stay with, and of course there are a number of mayors who also find themselves irreplaceable in performing more public functions. So it's about both of them being mostly and only from the ruling coalition and that's the biggest problem. In their voices, the government survives, and therefore it is necessary to amend the law in order to meet them. The changes and additions are brought solely because we want to meet these officials, that they retain their functions, whether two, three, five or ten. In fact, what does the government want? She wants to retroactively change the consequences that have taken effect after the emergency that the Anti-Corruption Agency Act has started to apply in January of this year, and the consequences have occurred as early as April 1st 2010. However, the confusion lasted a little longer when the Constitutional Court's decisions came, and the Ministry of Justice of Justice, which issued some certificates or some documents similar to that of someone not in conflict of interest, got mixed up. Thus, Serbia's constitutional and legal system makes it very clear that the officials elected directly by citizens: the President of the Republic, MPs in the province and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the committees at the place. The constitution is also very clear, in art. 4, 6. and in Article 102, it is said very precisely that they cannot perform other functions, jobs and duties that can lead to conflicts of interest, so we have this honorable thing that man cannot at the same time be in executive and legislative power, which is the case with us and that is what we are talking about here today. Such officials, according to this law passed in October 2008, had to decide by 1 April 2010, on which function they would remain. However, although the Agency's director, Mrs. Markovic, has warned them many times, nothing has happened, they simply stayed in those functions, showed that neither the Constitution, nor the law, nor anything is interested and showed that there are individuals in this country, of course those who are in power, who are above the law. As a cake cream, those amendments and additions to the laws that were on the agenda before a certain period of time, which were quickly found out that they were not even behind them by the Anti-Corruption Agency, as its members declared that they knew nothing about tones. Then followed by a brief flashback between, on the one hand, Mr. Cupic and Mrs. Markovic, and on the other hand the government. The law was withdrawn from the procedure and then published – fantastically, a compromise arrived. That's Mr. Chupic's statement. What does the compromise look like today? Here, we have before us this law, and indeed much more is seen from this interview which is very nervous, which Mrs Markovic gave on the topic of the famous compromise. Today, according to the proposal you put before us here, the official who is directly elected can retain more of his public functions, but you have come up with a fantastic way to make it look public as something that you take away his right. He must have obtained the consent of the agency. In order for the Agency to decide, I have to ask you from where any individual in a democratic society the discretionary right to decide who should maintain its functions and in what way? In order for the farce to be complete to the end, the official who asks to remain in more of these functions must also obtain the consent of the authority that has chosen him as irreplaceable in many places and thus help his country. The truth works, and the Agency doesn't have to give that consent, but the fact is that the way they bowed down so quickly when it comes to this compromise that is before us is actually just a theoretical possibility that the Agency doesn't give that consent. However, my lords, there are no such compromises in democracy. The law must be applied equally to every citizen of this country. What else is so controversial about us at the DSS? The Director of the Agency, not the Agency, shall adopt sub-legislative acts to specify what functions these functions can perform without the consent of the Agency. Why would the director do that? Why would the director bring in a sublegal act? Next, you say – a civil servant who works in the authorities of local self-government, the authorities of the province, the authorities of the Republic, the bodies of public enterprises and the institutions and bodies of companies, who reports to the officials that he is in conflict of interest, cannot suffer adverse consequences, so now be careful, if he has done so in good interest...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43057	People's MPs, the time available to the MP's group has been used. Thank you. The word is by MP Mirko Munjic, followed by MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, when we from the SRS in 2008 told you that the Anti-Corruption Agency is not an institution that will consistently and systematically resolve the issue of conflict of interest, as well as the issue of corruption, that it is this agency that does not and is not constitutional to do so and that it is just another dusting in the eyes of Serbian citizens, some of you were inclined to tell us that it is not true. That the Agency will rightly address the issue of conflict of interest, hence the issue of corruption, then, that these are just some day-to-day policy points that someone wants to collect and that these maltenes will be a revolutionary step in resolving a number of conflicts of interest and corruption. However, after almost two years, we wish we were wrong, we would love first because of the citizens of Serbia, but unfortunately those same citizens of Serbia, it turns out that we were absolutely everything we talked about back then. Fourteen months were due to begin law enforcement, this law, from October 2008 to January 1, 2010, 14 months of preparation, and after 14 months of what happens? After 14 months, it turned out absolutely that law wasn't what you expected. That law is not what you depicted here in the Serbian Parliament. Almost all members of the basic law, as well as this law on amendments and additions to the law, speak in favour of some indicators which, in some ways, as common denominators, can now be highlighted in favour of the application of this law. The first thing that can be pointed out as a common denominator is the absolute disabling of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Then, an attempt or an illusion of compensation by giving some greater authority to the director, which is also a new cast of dust into the eyes of the citizens. Then, thirdly, it is the haughtiness of those to whom this law applies, which shows the state's inability to solve these problems systematically. Fourthly, all of this has consequences instead of suppression, just the opposite. All of this has resulted in an increase in corruption, which, like cancer, has entered all the pores of our society. In Article 29, you predicted that a functioner who performs more functions is obliged to declare what function he will perform and, be careful now, by 1 September 2010. Fourteen months they had to decide which function to perform, 14 months from October 2008 until 1 January 2010, or 1 April 2010. Now you leave them, from January 1st to September 1st, another eight months. We ask ourselves: does it take anyone 22 months to decide what function they will perform? After this, after one of these situations, who will you convince that the Anti-Corruption Agency is the very institution that will rightly address the issue of conflict of interest and curb corruption? Articles 15, 21 and 22 shall give the Director some broad powers as regards the opinions and instructions given by the Director in respect of the implementation of the Law, thereafter as regards the election and discharge of the Deputy Director, as well as the salary for the Director and his Deputy. All of this is just an attempt to, in an indirect or direct way, all of what the Anti-Corruption Agency is unable to resolve or cannot solve, tomorrow opens up as one possibility that the blame may be transferred to one or two persons, so that a single illusion is once again created that just by changing that one or those two persons will come tomorrow to the right solution by selecting a new director, by selecting a new deputy director. It's all just throwing dust in the eyes of Serbian citizens again. Third, the haughtiness of those to whom the law applies is only the next common denominator of this law. There are numerous examples of such haughtiness. What worries is that the state is subject to this haughtiness is clearly an example of these 22 months, which are left to decide whether to give up some of its two, three, four or five functions. Finally, as a fourth, the increase in corruption as a result of all that has been said is something that needs to worry the most. Many of the regulations that you adopt here practically allow for the increasing strengthening of the tycoon, were they tycoons of the Republic, to say, or local importance. You're trying, in fact, when you realize that that cruel capitalism can't apply itself in the right form and scope to this society, something that's even worse, you're trying to bring back the wheel of history. Instead of going forward, like in any normal and developed society, you're trying to get us back into feudalism. How do you do that? By allowing new feuds to be formed, in these feuds the supreme lords are some new feuds. And not only are they the masters of these feeds of their own, not only are they ardently rich at the expense of the impoverished citizens of Serbia, but they are trying to be, and in many ways they succeed in being, the masters of life and death, everything and all those who live and breathe on their feud. All this time, corruption is booming, corruption that has entered all the pores of society, like some cancer, corruption that eats away everything that remains healthy in this society and in this country. Therefore very often, Madam Minister, corruption is being built, corruption is being treated, drugs are being prescribed by corruption, corruption and flight, corruption is often being tried, corruption is being chosen, ultimately, by the government. Only corruption, Madam Minister, does not work for the interests of the state, for the interests and well-being of this people, and with such corruption does not enter the EU. They will not receive you into the EU in five or 15 or 25 years, while such corruption is in this country. If you wanted to fight corruption honestly and systematically, to eradicate such corruption, you, Madam Minister, would be catching big fish. This government has crossed one half of its mandate. If she'd gone with a big fish since 2008, but really and systematically, believe me, they'd be full of nets if I didn't say full prison. Do you remember how much effort, strength and energy the SRS used to get rid of Bojan Kristo? I ask the question – do you think Bojan Kristo is the tip of the iceberg? Of course, you know that, like us in the SRS, it's not. There's a lot bigger. There's no honesty in all of what you're doing, just one kind of demagogy, and the people are getting poorer and somehow quieter, Madam Minister. I don't know if you've heard of it, but in time, a while ago in this House, Mr Zoran Krasic told you that the people in Serbia had been silenced. Do you know, Madam Minister, what does that mean? Do you know what that meant in the history of the Serbian people? Do you know how some of the former rulers in this country were treated when the Serb people shut up? It would be good for you to remember a little Serbian history, and then everything will be clear to you. Indeed, you are seriously playing with the patience of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43059	Ten minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word has been given by MP Nemanja Sarovic, followed by MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43060	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minister has come out at this time, I hope he will be back soon. First of all, I have to make protests about the fact that the ministers, as a rule, are waiting for the end of the debate, or not to be involved in the debate, which is why they're devising this work here, and then they're waiting for the end of the debate to give us some kind of lecture at the time when we can no longer comply with the Rules of Procedure to respond. We also warned in 2008 how bad this law is. That was clear back then. However, I must admit that we did not expect you to send this law to do so quickly, or that the law that is very bad will make it worse. With these amendments to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, you are virtually openly acknowledging that Serbia is a party state and that in a conflict between law and party interest, unfortunately, the law is affected. We had to hear from the minister first of all what are the negative effects of so far applying the law. I think that, first of all, you can and must talk about the negative effects, because if these effects weren't like that, this law wouldn't even be changed and you wouldn't propose to change it. On the other hand, it would be good if we heard if there were any positive fluids in the application of this law. The information that appears in public is that there are about 2,000 officials who remain in conflict of interest. However, we had to get the official explanation and the correct information today, because we cannot and will never accept that kind of information from the newspaper. What is clear today is that this law, which you wrote, which you represented as some kind of European law, the system law, was actually just a law that applied to the opposition. The best indicator of this fact is that it is the few party officials who are not ruling at the republican, province level or in the city of Belgrade, so those who belonged to the SRS, on their fingers, can list such cases, of course they had to resign to that second function they performed. At the same time, it was not done by officials who were from ruling parties and then really everyone has to imagine how they could have known that the law would not apply to them? What's the message of these changes to the law? So there was a deadline in which the function had to be registered, there was a deadline in which the officials had to give up other functions. They didn't respect those deadlines, and now, a few months later, you're changing the law. Whether it is a message that Serbia is a legal state or that the message is exactly the opposite, which is that laws should not be respected. And practically when you adopt these changes and complements, all the law-abiding ones will look ridiculous. I must also point out that it is obvious that the officials of the ruling parties knew what the Constitutional Court's decision would be. How could they know what decision the Constitutional Court and Bosa Nenadic would make? That may be the question the minister of justice should answer. As you must answer, Mrs Malovic, how did the representatives of the ruling parties, DS, LDP, SPS, G 17 and others know that a decision of the Constitutional Court will be repealed by the provisions of the Law on local elections relating to the resignations of the committee? I'll give you a concrete example. Of course, there's evidence for that. The SRS has resigned in the Belgrade City Assembly for six committees, the Administrative Board has made a decision in accordance with the law, as many times before, however, the ruling majority has removed that item from the agenda, explaining that a decision by the Constitutional Court is expected to regulate it differently. It's in the stenogram. Not only did they do it, but they were, I can tell, reckless enough, not to use a rougher expression, to make such a public excuse. Of course, a reserve committee group, which now gives the quorum, which supports the ruling coalition's decisions in Belgrade, is formed at the next session, is called – determined for Belgrade. We knew immediately what it was about and we claimed the second that it was corruption, that it was about buying parliamentary mandates, and we called that committee group – For Belgrade without morals. We may not have had any evidence at first, but the evidence came very quickly. I'd like you to make a statement about what I've been saying right now. A parliamentary group determined for Belgrade was also formed in the city municipality of Barajevo. Look at the last session of the City Hall. The management boards of city enterprises, public enterprises, name close relatives of the persons who formed the committee group. What, Mrs. Malovic, does the law say about this? What is this if it's not corruption? Here, I will read to you: "Budimka Mandic, wife of Ostoje Mandic, former SRS boardman; Millijana Despotovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43061	People's MP, I ask you, in accordance with Article 107, to speak about the agenda and not to allow yourselves to violate the Rules of Procedure by speaking of other persons who are not Members of the People and who cannot disprove or confirm your views.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43062	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, but I'd like to warn you of the following. This is official material...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43063	People's MP, you can't warn me. I warn you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43064	Thank you very much. So this is official material of the Belgrade City Assembly, and these persons are probably public officials, if they are elected members of the boards of directors and supervisors, which means they can talk about them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43065	People's MP, I now warn you that, by breaking the Rules of Procedure and deafening the warning, you are asking me to express the measures of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. I ask you to spare me and you and the National Assembly of needless pronunciation. Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43066	Mrs. Comic, I'm trying through concrete examples to illustrate the application of this law. So I don't see that I'm doing anything illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43067	National MP, second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43068	So, I would like you, Mrs. Malovic, to make a statement that it was in the Belgrade City Assembly that knew what decision of the Constitutional Court would be made? Do they have any special contact with Mrs. Bosa Nenadic and will these amendments and additions to the law prevent the theft and purchase of parliamentary mandates in Serbia? I showed, despite being interrupted by Mrs. Komic, and there are many other examples, that it is obvious that there is a part of the store and that it is a market. There's still a lot of examples. What I would point to is that, in accordance with this new law, property is no longer reported as widely as it was set out in the previous law, so it is not reported, for example. property of children. It is as if Tomislav Nikolic wrote those members, because in this Progressive Party it seems that his children have made the most progress and it would be extremely interesting to say how much they have acquired in these two years, or seven years, since Dr Vojislav Seselj has been in The Hague tribunal. In all public information funds, and this was, in the end, an official report on the financing of the political party, it was announced that the SNS's finances during that period in 2008, meant the last two and a half months since the founding of the year, including the wife of Tomislav Nikolic, her brother, his two sons, sister-in-law, and that they had given almost two million dinars to the party during the short period of about 70 days. The question arises – where do I talk about the wife of Tomislav Nikolic?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43069	People's MP, if you insist, I will apply all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning inappropriate violation of the provisions... Please listen to me when I remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, by violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you not to do so anymore. Article 107, which obliges you to speak on the agenda, obliges you under the threat of penalties prescribed by other members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you insist, then we'll apply other members. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43070	Mrs. Comic, as I understand it, I can't mention anyone's name. Here, now I won't, but I hope you'll at least let me talk in principle about how to fund SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43071	National MP, the topic of the agenda is the amendment and addition of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43072	It's about corruption, and I'm talking about corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43073	Please listen to me. The topic you want to talk about is the financing of political parties. It's a completely different law. Please don't try to mock the rules and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please do not mock all other MPs who have adhered to the subject of the agenda and not to promote behaviour that is undesirable and unacceptable at the session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43074	Mrs. Comic, I'd like to ask you to excuse this time you've spent, I don't think it would really be correct if you were interrupting me...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43075	People's MP, if you wish to make a statement of your violation of the Rules of Procedure about the way the chair chaired the session, then you can do so when you have finished your presentation, and until now, last, third time I warn you, stick to the agenda and do not promote unacceptable, rude behavior, with the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43076	Mrs. Comic, it's hard to keep going, but here's what I'm going to do. These changes that you have now proposed are obviously the ones that have been breaking the law. In Serbia today, these people are around 2000, and I'm going to ask you a legal question. In Article 28 of the law in force in the last position, it is said – the official who has been elected, appointed or appointed to another public function contrary to the provisions of this law, the later function ceases by force of the law. It's July 19th. By law, the functions that these public officials entered ended on April 1st. That's over three and a half months. I ask you, Mrs. Malovic, how can you extend the deadline for something that is already over? You can't predict that now a decision is made if something is going on under the law. You could have said that there was a conclusion, a solution, or something like that that would have been a declarative character, because the change occurs in law enforcement, but you can't say that a decision is made that determines some kind of legal state. That's what's clear. How do you intend to get out of this situation? These public officials, in accordance with the law, have ceased their function and you have somehow had to act to make such a solution. The question arises what if such a solution is not made? You're going to punish the organ? Here you say – the permanent working body of the body chosen by the functioner makes such a decision. There will be interesting situations whether and when he will bring it. I remind you that Nenad Konstantinovic, who is the chairman of the Administrative Board in the National Assembly, and the chairman of the Administrative Committee at the Sava Venac municipality, has refused to schedule a session of the Administrative Committee for more than six months at the request of the SRS to suspend the mandates of our former committees. What happens if there are still such abuses, and apparently there will be? That's not the situation you're predicting. In the end, since I don't have much time, I'd like to ask you a question about criminal provisions. This is where you increase the amount of fines, and you don't apply the law. According to the information I have, so far none of the only penalties under this law have been imposed. Another question arises – where are the penalties for these public officials who have so far failed to comply with the law? In Article 82, you give them some new term of grace, to inform the Agency about what functions they perform, which they have already had to do, but you do not provide for them any penalties.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43077	14 minutes of MP time was used. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The point is that Mr. Nemanja Sarovic absolutely spoke about the subject of the agenda and this is seen in Article 1. The bill, which reads: "In the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, in Article 2, indents 2 and 3 after the word "enterprises", the words "and companies" are added, and after the words "founder", the words "or member", so that Article 2 of the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, among other things, reads, this is Article 2(2). – The official is each elected, appointed or appointed person in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, AP, units of local self-government and bodies of public enterprises and companies, institutions and other organisations whose founder or member of the Republic of Serbia, AP, units of local self-government and other person elected by the National Assembly." Nemanja Sarovic had just been meaning to talk about abuse, corruption, conflict of interest in the management boards of the city of Belgrade, which is the agenda point, such as the agenda point and what he also intended to talk about, but was interrupted by Mrs Comic, which are connected faces of public officials. Therefore, the connected person is a spouse or an out-of-marriage partner of a functioner, a blood relative of a functioner in a straight line or in a lateral line concluded with another family, adopter or adopter, as well as any other legal or natural person who, according to other grounds and circumstances, can reasonably be considered as being interested in the functioner. And the administrative boards of the public enterprises of the city of Belgrade and what Mr. Nemanja Sarovic pointed out, which is an illegal corruption vision of SNS financing, are the points of the agenda, but I do not understand, Mrs. Comic, if you are already defending your party, why are you doing this on the SNS issue?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43079	There's no damage to article 27. On the contrary, Article 27 has been applied, as well as Article 107, and you will see with insight into the stenogram that MP Nemanja Sarovic, as long as he spoke about the officials, had full freedom and the right to expose it. The moment he starts presenting names, last names and human data, the fact that he's the only person he knows, he doesn't have a license at the moment. If you want me to warn you one by one about a throw, I'm at your disposal. If you feel that I should violate the Rules of Procedure and not give an explanation to MP Aleksandr Martinovic, then I am not at your disposal, and you will listen to the explanation because it is my obligation under Article 100. So, MP Nemanja Sarovic was interrupted because he began to present private data from the lives of other people who are not MPs. In the second and third, and by reading... I would ask MP Aleksandr Martinovic, by applying Article 27, to decide -- will you, as you lead the SRS parliamentary group, the application of the Rules of Procedure, or do you feel that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure apply to all other parliamentary groups, except for members of the SRS parliamentary group, who think they can earn whenever they want, that they can behave as they please and that they can talk whenever they want? National MP Momcilo Duvnjak, would you like to replace MP Aleksandr Martinović? So, like any other MP, as long as he is in accordance with Article 107, he will be able to speak, if he tries to make fun of the rules of conduct politely, then he will be warned and with insight into the stenogram you will see that I have applied Article 27. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to speak again about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43080	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this time a member of 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Comic, the names of members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of public enterprises, whose founder is the town of Belgrade, are no secret. Those names are published, as far as I know, in the official list of the city of Belgrade and by law, by law, by members of the administrative and supervisory boards of the public enterprises of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina and local self-government units, including, therefore, the public enterprises of the city of Belgrade, therefore, members of these boards of directors and supervisors, within the meaning of this law, are public officials and can be spoken of. Are members of the Belgrade city's administrative and supervisory boards of public enterprises, I don't know, sacred cows whose name is not to be pronounced or are citizens of the Republic of Serbia who must be responsible for their work on these boards of directors and supervisors? The fact that they are related to individual councilors in the Belgrade City Assembly, who have issued the SRS and who are now working for the Belgrade mayor's account, and they must be mentioned because it is again in line with the law that contains the notion of connected persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43081	People's MP, I ask you to coordinate your argument with the violation of Article 104 that you have quoted, since what you are doing, giving an explanation, is not an explanation for the violation of Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43082	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43083	You may proceed, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43084	Mrs. Komic, I really do give you the best advice to read what the Government has given us to all, and this is an amended Article 2. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which states what is meant by connected persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43085	People's MP, I warned you that the explanation that you're giving to a broken member of 104 is not in line with what are the provisions of Article 104. Whether someone has betrayed your party or any other party cannot be the subject of a breach of Article 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43086	May I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43087	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, when the Anti-Corruption and Amendments Agency Act, which have 30 members, is carefully read, it would be possible to conclude that whoever represents this law on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is missing either personal security or possibly professional capacity. When it comes to you, it could not be applied either, but if you don't find it difficult, at least for the MPs of the SRS, when you take the word, explain why and in the name of whom you represent a law like this that really doesn't make any sense. Mrs Nada Kolundzija said, because there were a lot of fellow MPs who said that amendments to the law are very common, that we are at one point in transition, I would say that our society is in crisis, economic, social, moral and each other, and changes, Mrs Kolundžija, the law would not be disputed that those in that draft of the amendments provide something better for those concerned, and above all they are citizens of Serbia. It's a very interesting question why this law is passed. In order to cover everything that has not been implemented by the basic law, one law is tried and then explain why it was not applied. Today, from several MPs, in fact, to be perfectly precise, we could hear from the two MPs who agreed in favour of this law in one banal way try to explain that the representatives of the school committees and committees, if they also perform one and another function, were not in conflict of interest, and their intention was to demean the members of the school boards. No committee, no supervisory board, any function we perform on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia must be underestimated, must be taken seriously. Had it not been for the need to defend a few individuals here, they would probably have changed and complemented this law would not have been on the agenda, and above all, perhaps those people who are both MPs and mayors at the same time. You see the statements published in the previous days and in the daily press, I don't know who handed over the amendment to me, maybe it's tall, and the little, maybe fat, and the skinny man, I can't remember now, but surely it wasn't our MP group who put up with it, and in the end we didn't even take it, we had no reason to defend ourselves, we didn't read the bill, so we submitted such an amendment, and here it can be said for such a man that he could simultaneously perform several functions very seriously and responsibly, it turns out that it wasn't true. Here, and could representatives of the assembly's majority propose a second decision, instead of considering today a proposal on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act, perhaps a decision to assign to those citizens of Serbia who are not employed by 5,000 dinars, as has been done for those working in the public sector. Has anyone in the name of the congregation’s majority considered that these citizens could be met as well. The government is in charge of policy implementation, but if the majority proposed such a decision, it could be on the agenda and then the government of the Republic of Serbia would be obliged to implement it. If the MPs of the SRS had done so, it would certainly never have been possible to come to the agenda, as were some proposals for the establishment of a polling committee, to examine the situation concerning "The mouth". Our head of the parliamentary group has proposed such a polling committee and, of course, has never come to the agenda, and why, when your goal is to protect, and because of the preservation of the congregation's majority, to protect those small representatives of political parties who may, because of their lack of respect, be called simply their wish, also question the existence of such a coalition. My proposal could have been, however, late now, when you passed the law on amendments to the Government Act and the Ministry Act, you could have stated, if you wanted to stay in power for four years, in the transitional and final provisions of such a law – this government would be performing its function, until the end of a four-year period. It may have somehow been a more moral, perhaps more quality proposal to solve this than you have accessed to changes and additions to such a law that really don't make any sense. When someone has come to talk today, the rules of the game are established before the game is held and they must be respected by the end of the game, the SRS MPs fully agree with such a proposal, but you do not do so. There was one rule, fully and clearly built, and it was laid down by law, on local elections and when the assembly majority did not respond, then the Constitutional Court came up with an initiative for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the provisions of the Law on Local Elections, and I am responsible for saying that certain people in Serbia had been told that the Constitutional Court would make such a decision in April that the committee's mandates would belong to the committees, not to political parties who, as such, went to the elections and who decided by their bodies specifically to which candidate from the list would be assigned that parliamentary mandate. Such a situation did not correspond to these two representatives of the congregation's majority who tried to explain what they were saying in favour of this law, but then kept silent, and today when it was disputed because their representatives or presidents of these political parties declared that what was brought by the Agency that they would respect them more effectively. They later received confirmation that they did not have to respect, that a law on amendments and additions of the law would be passed in some future period and that it would actually be legalized. That's absolutely not right. If a tax payer does not pay sales tax in one day, i.e. VAT, or on January 10th, in the course of the year does not file a tax application in which he will pay the tax, he will be sanctioned, and here allegedly the biggest representatives of state authorities do not have to comply with the law. In addition to the fact that as a congregation majority, you often and exclusively vote in favour of the laws proposed in this House, you are obliged, as we do, to follow their further destiny, whether they are implemented in such a way as they should, in the spirit of the letter of the law or not at all, and the obvious example is that this law has not been applied. Corruption is growing every day, but we have representatives in the government and vice president who at the same time gets paid and receives a pension, and it's not one, it's more like that. There is no good example here for Serbian citizens that they should trust the people's representatives. All these MPs of the SRS, without any dilemma and without any conviction, have the right to present for one simple reason. After the parliamentary elections in 2007 we directly changed the provisions of Article 102(3). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is said that MPs cannot be representatives of some other authorities, so no elected mayor or president of the municipality at the time, elected in 2004, was also a national MP. We wanted to apply these provisions of the Constitution even then, and later when this law was passed, even though we had concrete objections to its implementation and its adoption, we wanted to give maximum support that it was implemented and implemented, but you have no such will. In fact, you don't make laws to apply them, but you bring them to strengthen you, hold you back, or maybe leave you in power in any way. It is mentioned here today that a committee member and a member of the school board do not give such attention and that they cannot negatively influence the development of corruption as the directors of public enterprises can. Do you remember who first raised his voice against the director of public enterprises, but not what was honorable, honest and based on the law, but because they had enormously raised their bonuses, they had extremely high salaries, and only one such example was personally Bojan Kristo. We also pointed out the times and many others with different names, but they acted the same as Bojan Kristo, not to mention the extremely tall, enormously tall and what DS President Boris Tadic would say – rudely high profits. Let's do something in the interests of Serbian citizens for once. Show you on your case, the ones they chose, that can and must be done differently, and not protecting and defending the interest of just a few of those, in fact they're said to be around 1,800, maybe up to 1,900, which performs more functions incompatible for now by law. Now someone's worried and says they're going to need a new 1,800 or 1,900 salaries to give to those who would be appointed. The salary under the law cannot impoverish Serbian citizens, but those who decide on their behalf and make certain decisions are obliged to create such a business and other environment where Serbian citizens will feel that their elected representatives are indeed working for them. They go to elections to elect representatives who have to intervene in those situations when they, as individuals, cannot exercise certain rights and protect their interest. He's also a very interesting member of the 21st century. The bill, where it says the Agency has a deputy director elected in a public competition, and the director elects a deputy director among the three proposed candidates from the list established by the Agency's Committee. Why doesn't the board pick him? We always have more confidence, no matter what kind of government you are, Serbian citizens have more confidence when a collective body does this than when an individual does. Here it is shown that the assembly majority is ready, and that you do not understand why, is it because of several officials sitting here and elsewhere, because this would certainly not have been done because of the councilors in the local self-government and members of the school board, but has been done because of several MPs who are also mayors. But we remember that there were MPs sitting in this assembly who were ministers at the same time. It wasn't a big deal to you either, and it didn't bother you, and you don't really stop at anything to cash what you got, trust the citizens, in the best possible way, and to provide some benefit to you or to your connected faces. Madam Minister, since you are the minister of justice, it would be interesting that when you respond to our remarks, you should also say not to publish a public list of persons who lived in Croatia at the time on their property, but to be expelled, against whom criminal or other proceedings are being conducted in Croatia, and not to have them come to ask questions, but simply to make it public for them to see what faces they are. And if you could, I'm not sure that you can give us the right answer, from where and for which money are purchased as many chess shops and highlighted here in Belgrade, which is the reason why the taxpayers... (President: National MP, I remind you of article 107 and the obligation to speak of agenda. ) I'm talking only about the agenda, if it's not a gift, if the gentleman who visits Serbia today didn't bring it personally, then it's okay, but if he brought it, then he doesn't have the right to point out where he wants it...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43089	National MP, I would like to direct you to the Secretary of Parliament, who will give you all the necessary information on how the representatives of the state exchange gifts and how the obligation of the state to welcome foreign statesmen, heads of state, heads of government or parliaments. Until now, a second warning, to remind you of article 107 and the obligation to speak on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43090	Thank you. I think the secretary general and what rained yesterday was responsible, I apologize, we're not going to talk about it now, we're going to do Article 28. The bill says – the official elected to a public office directly from the citizens may, without the consent of the Agency, perform more public functions to which it is elected directly from the citizens, except in cases of incompatibility established by the Constitution. It used to stand with the Agency's consent, and now it doesn't even have to ask the Agency for consent. Here's what the majority of the assembly and you, Madam Minister, indicate, is why I am now returning to those two qualifications that were given at the beginning, and if you don't mind explaining to us where you come from and in the name of what you stand for under such a law that doesn't mean anything. It actually shows the state's impotence, when I say "state," I think all its institutions, the state's inability to oppose a certain number of tycoons or those people who consider Serbia to be owned by them. One SRS and Serbian citizens have no alternatives, and you who abuse their trust will account for them in the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43091	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer signed up for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. In that case, I conclude a principled review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. We move on to a common principle and uniform review of the 5-11th agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE RUSSION OF THE OBLIGATIONS ON THE OBLIGATION OF SERBIA AND THE INDICATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE SERBIA CREDIT, THE CONFORMATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FINANCE PROTOCOL FROM 2009. The years with France, the Treaty with the EIB on the Modernization of Schools, the Treaty on the avoidance of Double Taxation of Income with Pakistan and Income and Property with Austria and Azerbaijan. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly Chairman, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for the joint principle and uniform review of the draft law from the 5th to 11th agenda, in addition to the representative of the motionary Diana Dragutinović, the Minister of Finance and Zarko Obradovic, the Minister of Education, the sittings attend and Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Zoran Ćirović, Assistant Minister of Finance, Branislav Tončić, Director of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance, Dragana Ratkovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Dejan Dabetic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled and uniform search on drafts of the agenda by items 5 to 11, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and that is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; MEP group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file statements for the word, and with the order of the MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Milan J. Nikolic of the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Vladimir Ilic of the G17 Plus MP, Milorad Buha of the SRS parliamentary group. According to Article 142(2) and Article 152(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the State Credit to the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Modernisation of the Loan Agreement for the implementation of the Financial Protocol concluded on 16 December 2009 between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Financial Treaty (the Modernisation of Schools Programme) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes and property, the Proposal for the Law on the approval of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the implementation of the Republic of Serbia on the implementation of the long-Making and the Treaty on the Treaty on the implementation of the Treaty on the implementation of the Treaty on the implementation of the rule of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. Do the proposing representatives, Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister and Zarko Obradovic, minister of education, want a word? On the basis of Article 93, the order in which the proposings are given was arranged, then the committee's rapporteurs, and then the MPs who issued their opinion, but since the finance minister will be here any minute, I ask if he wants the word... I thank the MPs of the people for their goodwill to wait for the minister, since we don't have to. Do the proposing representatives, Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister and Zarko Obradovic, minister of education, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the ministerial financing of Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43092	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I apologize for and hope not so much of a delay. So, as you are informed, there are seven financial laws on the agenda. Perhaps the most important changes in the law on amendments and additions to the Tax Administration Act are. After that, there are three laws to confirm the practical borrowing of the state. All three loan contracts or loans or financial contracts are provided for by the 2010 Budget Act. Finally, the list of three laws is on the agenda, which essentially confirms a contract between the Republic of Serbia, Austria, Azerbaijan and Pakistan on avoidance of double taxation. I'd like to say a few sentences on amendments to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act. I'll just focus on the changes. The number of changes was not great. As I have already mentioned, we have a whole new law waiting for us in this area. However, we felt that it was necessary for it to change in several directions, and I am now going to show you what has been specifically changed. The first group of changes relate to the alignment of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration with the Law on Violations and the Law on Court Orders. Therefore, the tax administration no longer has jurisdiction to conduct the tax infringement procedure in the first degree. That's what the Criminal Court is in charge of now, and in the second degree, it's a senior criminal court in charge. Also, minimum fines for legal persons, for responsible persons in a legal person, for entrepreneurs and for natural persons have been agreed. So, a minimum fine has been agreed with the Law on Violations. The second group of changes is to specify the competence of local self-government units in a tax procedure that applies only to their basic, original incomes. First of all, local self-government now has the right to provide legal assistance, the first major change, and the second one to decide on the postponement of the tax debt, but based on the original incomes. Also, local self-government units now have the right to seek, without compensation, all the information they can be useful to do their job. This information can be requested from the Tax Administration – central and all competent state authorities and organisations. The third group of amendments to this law refers to the implementation of the so-called guillotine regulations. I will point only to the most significant changes that will significantly reduce time and thus reduce time will also reduce the costs of legal persons. Therefore, the administrative procedure for notifying the tax administration of changes to be registered in registers managed by the Agency for Economic Registers has been abolished. There is only one deadline for the limitation of the right to determine tax and that period is now five years. A self-reporting institute has been prescribed and there is no infringement of the tax procedure in that case. Finally, it is prescribed that entities to which the tax identification number is assigned via the Agency for Economic Registers of Tax Administration shall be re-issued through that Agency. Unfortunately, two more big things remain to be implemented under the guillotine rules when it comes to the tax administration, so e-delivery of tax returns, tax collection and contributions by all taxpayers by electronic means will not be able to be completed before June 2011 and also, allowing the introduction of tax obligations by electronic means will also not be able to be completed before June 2011. The fourth group of changes, this is a change that practically works towards strengthening financial discipline. So, on the one hand, as you know, fines have been increased, i.e. a minimum fine has been raised in accordance with the Law on Violations. On the other hand, the possibility of banning certain activities between six months and three years has been introduced if the taxpayer happens to commit the same tax offence over a period of two years. In the end, the other changes I think the taxpayers will like. The first change, in the payment of the tax debt, changes the order of payments, so first the basic debt is paid, then the interest, then the rest of the expenses, and in the current law, the order was exactly the reverse and finally the interest rate on the tax debt is still in line with real life. So the level of that interest rate will be equal to the central bank's reference interest rate, increased by 10 percentage points, and so far that has been 15 percentage points. The next group of laws, as I said, refers to the government's borrowing, so it's three loans. All three loans, I also mentioned, are foreseen by the 2010 Budget Law. The first before us is the law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on the approval of the state loan to the Republic of Serbia. The agreement was concluded on 7 April 2010. The terms of the loan are, I mean, well known, but I would still take this opportunity and let you know. First, the loan is meant to finance the budget deficit. His amount is $200 million. The duration is 12 years, a period of two years, so, over a period of 10 years, obligations are paid in 40 equal wars. The interest rate is the six-month libor. It currently stands at 0.73% and is increased by a fixed margin of 2.95% per year. So at the moment, the interest rate on the $200m loan that we got from the Russian state is 3.66%. The Republic of Serbia will be able to withdraw the funds within seven days of the loan agreement's entry into force. If conditions are created that the Republic of Serbia can repay this loan before the time, this will be done without paying a special fee. The next loan is essentially a loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of France and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Natixis acting on behalf of and at the expense of the Government of the Republic of France. It is a loan of 11m and 185,000 euros. The purpose of this loan is to create a practically integrated geo-data system, i.e. managing national geo-information, which will allow Serbia's technological advantage over other Balkan countries. I would just like to point out that the 2010 Budget Law provides for a slightly higher amount of credit for these purposes, 13.6m euros, I would like to stress once again that the real debt on this basis will be somewhat lower. The terms of this loan are extremely favourable, because it is a loan that the Republic of Serbia is taking for 40 years. The payment deadline is 20 years. The rest period is 20 years, and the interest rate is only 0.20% a year. It is a kind of pilot project, and its successful realization or its successful realization depends on whether we will be able to get such favourable funds from France in the future. Now it's on the agenda of the next government debt, which my colleague will talk about more.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43093	Dear Mrs. Comic, dear fellow Members of the People, dear colleague Nikola, well, that happens, since Goca started this session, I have a pleasant duty to introduce you to the loan our Republic concluded with the European Investment Bank on 7 June of this year and which today is the subject of a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and which will be ratified, I hope, in a few days and hence, the realization of this loan will begin. It's a very big and very important loan for education. Its total value is 50m euros and it has three components. The first component has practically begun to be realised on the date of signature of this loan, but the transfer of funds will be possible when the contract is ratified. The value of the first part of the loan is around 20m euros, and it implies implementation of projects that aim essentially at abolishing the third shift in a number of schools in the Republic of Serbia. Namely, in primary and secondary schools in Lapovo, Novi Pazar, Belgrade, Alexinac, Novi Sad, Nis, Jagodina's realization of the project will practically begin at the end of the summer and early autumn days. The second part of this loan refers to the realization of the work relating to the single information system and the implementation of the project of the national education strategy. It is the smallest and amounts to about threem euros, and will be distributed to these components in the appropriate structure and the realization of that part of the loan will also begin at the same time as ratification. We are left with a third part of the loan of about 24m euros or more, compared to these other components, but the bottom line is that the realisation of that part of the loan will begin at the end of this year, when together with the European Investment Bank, we make the criteria by which these funds will be allocated. It is our idea to use the funds in the best possible way and to achieve the greatest effects with the least resources, and therefore we will make appropriate criteria. We formed a task force at the Ministry. We will call a representative of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Serbia because we want local self-government to be adequately involved. Of course, we will call and hire a professional consultant team, because with this money we want not only to renovate a certain number of schools, but also to get the necessary equipment and build school halls in as many schools as possible. I must say that this loan is very important to us, because we have very little resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget, in the investment work. I think we have only about 200 million for primary and secondary schools. Then you can judge for yourself how important this sum is to us. I expect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to ratify this treaty and we will begin its implementation as soon as possible. If there's anything else I need to explain, I'm at my disposal. A colleague of Novakovic's, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43094	Thank you, Minister. The word is Mrs Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43095	I'd like to add a few more sentences, which refer to the terms of borrowing. First, let me inform you that this is not the first loan from the European Investment Bank that we get for the same purpose. The first loan for the same purpose was won in 2005. He was exporting 25m euros. This is the second 50m-euro loan. Now I'll let you know about the terms. The period on which we're taking this loan is 25 years. The payment deadline is 20, and the rest period is five years. Conditions concerning interest rates, for each payment period, we can choose whether we will pay at a fixed or variable interest rate. If the variable is an interest rate, it is equal to a six-month euribor, plus a minus a certain range. Currently, this range or margin is 0.8% and the six-month eurobor is 1.08. Currently, this rate is 1.88% a year. If we were to decide on a fixed interest rate, because we are currently at the historical minimum of the eurobor, we would have to pay 4% a year for this loan. Finally, there are three other agreements left, agreements to avoid double taxation. As I said, it is three countries: Austria, it is in relation to income tax and property tax; Azerbaijan, also in terms of income tax and property tax and Pakistan, relative to income tax. These are type international contracts. Yet I would remind all of us once again together why such international agreements are being made. Therefore, in terms of international trade and international investment growth, it is possible to apply at least two countries' laws to one natural or legal person, therefore, to the country of residence and to the country in which the property is located in the static or to obtain income. It is in the interest of all countries, thus Serbia's countries, that the same taxpayer is not taxed twice on the same basis and in the same period of time. That's what international contracts like this are all about. Therefore, the definition of double taxation is that this is a tax burden on income, on capital, on the property of the same taxpayer in more than one country, on the same income, on capital, on property in the same period of time. The problem is even more complicated given that tax schemes are different in different countries. The situation can become completely absurd, for example, when a country's resident earns income in another country, and the tax rate in both countries is higher than 50%. If you really taxed both countries, the taxpayer would practically have a negative income, which would have a negative impact on economic growth. In order to prevent this, therefore, this is why international agreements serve, to protect the taxpayer from double taxation and to prevent the discouragement of free international flows of goods and capital. Otherwise, at this point Serbia has ratified 37 such contracts, another six, a total of 43, to be current since 1 January 2011, nine have been signed, not yet ratified, 11 negotiations have been completed, and 10 countries are under way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43096	Thank you, Madam Minister. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Finance Committee, MP Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Milan Nikolic, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43097	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today before us, has repeatedly been repeated, we have seven legislative proposals, and this is: The Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax System Act and the Tax Administration, three draft laws on borrowing, and this loan by the Russian Federation, then the loan to implement the Financial Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, and the approval of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. We also have three proposals to confirm a double taxation agreement with respect to income taxes and citizens' assets, including the Republic of Austria, Pakistan and Azerbaijan. I think that the legislators have said a lot in terms of changes and additions and the content of these legal proposals. Some of them I'll repeat. As for the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I would like to remind you that the National Assembly passed this law in 2002. It has been in place since 2003 and so far we have 12 amendments and additions to this law, twice last year. I have the impression that more than half of the members of this law have been amended. I think it is good that Mrs. Minister stressed that there will be final cleaning of the text, but because of the need of those to whom this law is intended, it would be good to have at least a consolidated text, so that both local self-government and tax authorities, but especially those who are obliged to implement this law – taxpayers, above all, can be better equipped in this whole legal procedure. As explained by the Proposer, these amendments are mainly in line with the provisions of other laws, in particular the Law on Infringements and the Law on Court Orders, and in the part of the law relating to the conduct of tax and infringement proceedings in the first and second stages. I think these changes are understandable, because they clearly signify the division of powers in which the tax administration and local authorities determine and charge taxes, and the infringement procedure in tax matters is led by others, by law, by authorised authorities. It is a very important explanation that we are approaching EU regulations through this legal project, to equalise some legal standards, which is very good. I also understand the change in the legal-technical alignment with the provisions of the Law on the financing of local self-government in a part which determines the competences of the local self-government unit on the tax procedure, which concerns its original incomes. It is particularly important for this law to establish jurisdiction, in fact, to specify the competence of local self-government and the co-operation of republican and local authorities and to contribute to legal certainty in all of this. It is also good that these changes are complemented by agreement and alignment with other legal regulations in the area of this matter. Important changes are in Article 12. Proposal to amend the law. Article 70(2) has been amended where the order of fulfilment of the taxpayer's obligations has been amended and that, instead of the first payment of the costs, then, interest, principal, the basic debt is now paid, and then interest and expenses. I think it's very important for the economy, because paying off the basic debt leads to a suspension of interest. I think it's a relief in these difficult times for the economy, first of all, and for every taxpayer. There must also be an understanding of the government's efforts that some of the taxpayers' costs have literally disappeared at the expense of the budget, but I think that this effort is cost-effective and it's good. Also, in Article 75(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law reduced the interest rate, which was very well explained by the Minister, that there was a reduction from 15% to 10% compared to the Econcent rate of the Central Bank. Given the difficult economic situation in which taxpayers find themselves, I think this is a rather extenuating circumstance. Of course, the government is knowingly giving up some of the budget revenue for the benefit of the businessmen. Companies in the process of reorganisation are being extended to 60 months in tax debt, which is also very important for those who are entering the process of restructuring and strengthening economic power so that they can get out of the problems they are currently in. It is particularly important that the companies that are in sales, in tenders, can be, by decision of local self-government from the original incomes, as well as the Republic, freed from some tax duties, so that the privatisation of certain entities can be carried out as quickly as possible and as successfully as possible. That is why the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. As for the second set of laws, I don't belong to a group of people who are thrilled with their duties. I think it's a long enough evil friend. However, under the conditions in which our country is located, in conditions where many of the previous things we have to do to get to the development component, as well as other countries in the environment, we have to reach out for the creation of these preconditions. Economically, it's three responsibilities that have nothing to do with development. The arrangement that was made with the Russian Federation of 200 million will serve to cover the deficit. As far as schools are concerned, it will be paid in the long term, an arrangement that is being made with the EIB and also related to spatial planning, an arrangement that is being made a prerequisite for organised construction in Serbia. It's not about pre-investments that today, tomorrow to activate, will be able to make production, employment, profits, but without this there are no next Greenfields, etc., so I think we need to support the government in these forms of borrowing. Of course it's a loan, explained Mrs. Minister, these 200 million from the Russian Federation, in very favourable terms, and this is the result of our country's relationship with the Russian Federation. I think the 12-year return period in 40 equal wars, with a relatively favourable interest rate, is a good decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and should be supported. As for the financial protocol between the French government and the Natixis on spatial planning at 11.185,000, I understood that the interest amount was 0.20% a year. The payment deadline is 40 years, with a 20-year grace period. I think it's about favourable conditions. Of course something must be swallowed there. That's what suppliers must be from France. It is that the control of the implementation of the project must be at the expense of the Republic of Serbia, but I think it is one of the unfavourable arrangements that the RS government has made at this time in connection with borrowing. EIB funds, particularly related to infrastructure and related to countries which are members or who claim to be EU members, go from this bank through the form of assistance to favourable loans, low interest rates and other repayment deadlines, especially for developing undeveloped areas, modernising transport, energy, telecommunications and in particular in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and other institutions, in this case schools. Minister Obradovic explained very well where these 100m-dollar funds will be employed. In fact, 50 million loans from the EIB and 50 million from the RS budget. And here's a 25-year payout, a five-year start. A fixed or variable favourable interest shall apply, etc. The process of signing and confirming a double taxation agreement with respect to income tax and citizens' assets should continue with almost all countries, as it creates security for residents and non-residents. I'd say it creates a motivation to invest in countries where your relationships are regulated and secure that there will be no double taxation, as it has been so far. It is about type contracts, but we care very much about the contract that has now been made with Austria, because we know what the investment procedures of the Austrian state towards Serbia have been made, what are the business relations. I think such a signed contract will benefit citizens of both countries, residents of both. It will know what, as much as and under what conditions it taxes real estate, property, whether it is on the territory or on the territory of another country. There are clearly specified taxes on which this contract applies, so Austria has income tax, corporate tax, land tax, agricultural and forest land tax, etc., property tax, and on the Serbian side is a corporate tax, income tax and property tax. I repeat, these agreements strengthen economic relations with countries. Neither countries like Azerbaijan nor Pakistan, according to the same team content of this arrangement, are without interest in RS. These projects will be held by our parliamentary group in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43098	The word has an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43099	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the LDP welcomed some amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration, with the view that the change in tax policy would be much deeper and more comprehensive. We'll talk about that later. We've submitted some amendments. I don't know if you've had a chance, Minister, to see them. Our proposal is to be in Article 2. Item 2(4) is deleted. Two amendments are of a technical nature. It is one that would pass a little on to the local self-government commitment and solve in the second degree, complaints concerning solutions the local administration made in the first degree. This would relieve the tax administration of a large part without a job. Otherwise, you know how much tax administration is burdened. The second member of the amendments that we have submitted says that tax rulings, Article 55, in a shortened procedure, can be brought in on the basis of data from the tax application, without a party. As soon as she has filed a tax application, those facts should be accepted. Calling the party and everything else is delaying the process. These are some technical amendments, amendments that would make it much easier for the tax administration to work. There are changes here that we can support, first of all, Article 12. The bill amending Article 70, where you said that the order of obligations that is settled, or which have arrived in a different way, is defined and that they are in fact moving from the principal. That means a lot to all taxpayers. We have one question, and I would like you to explain to me why Article 10 of the proposal changes the existing Article 40 in such a way that even two amended applications can be submitted. We've already had a conversation on amended tax returns, amended final accounts that came to you by those who bought large public enterprises in Serbia, or 51%, and I don't think that's the happiest solution. Also, I'd like to ask a question about article 15. The proposal, where interest is practically reduced because instead of econsontious taking a reference rate, it is much more frequently changed, approximately 12 to 16 days and it may be a slightly problematic item. What I find most problematic in this law is Article 28. It is foreseen that the Government may, on a proposal from the Minister, decide on a partial or complete write-off of all public incomes from taxpayers whose ownership structure has been changed on the basis of commitments made from the Republic's cost. Madam Minister, I've contacted a large number of people and I've really tried each and every one of them to see how they read this article. The way I read it was very disputable for me. Some read it a little differently, or understood it a little differently. But now I don't have much to think about what I think he's hiding behind this article. For me, for one, this member is very disputable because it leaves a lot of room for volunteering, because there are no criteria. We talked about it today, we talked about it in the past few days. If there are no clear rules to play by, if there are no clear criteria, there is a space for volunteering. What I am most interested in about this member, Madam Minister, which I would like to ask you to make sure that you do – does this also apply to contributions? Since you say here – all public revenues, does this also apply to contributions? So, I'd like you to say that-- does it refer to contributions, because I think it's problematicly strong? We wanted to ask you what about changes in value added tax, for example. When will that come to the agenda? Here, of course, we're not talking about the rate, we're talking about the way and the time when the value added tax is charged. Taking into account the state of our economy, or all those who, in any way, have the obligation to pay value added tax, I know that you know this well, that their biggest problem is to raise money to pay the value added tax without paying their dues, or not to collect their claims. That's what's choking. I don't mean this way to deal with populism, but I think it's a fact that we have to take into account and the fact that we should in any way help domestic production, not brag about the external trade deficit. Well, our foreign trade deficit is in plus because our imports are down, because the payload is less, so our external trade deficit is smaller than it was and there's no reason to brag about it. Also, I wanted to ask, is there any chance of changing taxes and contributions to receipts? So we've been insisting on them shrinking all the time. You know, and we talked about it more than once, I know you know what that would lead to. You once said here that smaller taxes and contributions don't mean that there will be a fuller register, that is, to avoid it, etc., but I don't think we should just worry about it when we're talking about this issue of state. The state is the biggest debtor, the state has entered wherever it can, it doesn't leave, let's not leave public enterprises, that's what we talked about today. Don't look at me like that, Mrs. Dragutinović. You don't hear me very well. I can make it louder, but I don't know if it'll solve the problem. I say, the state goes in wherever it gets and wherever it wants. An example of this is Dulic's law on the resuscitation of the construction industry. I'm interested - what do you think about it? What's the budget hole going to make? The law is purely etatism, as well as the law that Minister Milosavljevic brought to us the other day. There are no criteria and everything is put into the hands of the minister. When it comes to Dulic's law, I'm really interested, so what's the budget expenditure going to be? Then what do you think of the breach of the contract we signed with CEFTA? You know what's in that law, and we asked him what the finance minister said to you. We also have relations with countries surrounding us, both in the EU and non-EU countries. When Dulic brought us this law and effectively eliminated everything other than domestic builders, which he previously mutilated with his law and ruined, what will they say? How can we go to any market and offer anything? Secondly, I hope you are also aware of the law passed by Minister Milosavljevic ahead of us. The state gets involved wherever it gets, we think it's a very big problem. What we as an LDP are very interested in, and I believe that citizens too, is this economic conflict in the government itself. We have a finance minister, whose statements I really support, we have a prime minister who is silent about her statements, we have a minister for economics and regional development who refutes these statements in every way and gives statements, such as today, that he will negotiate with the IMF on the freezing of wages and pensions. I have to ask you one more time, I'm really embarrassed, but -- who's the minister of finance in this country, you or him? I wish he only cared about the work he was chosen for in this congregation. But we keep hearing about the economic conflict in the government, that is, the statements you make and the statements it makes are completely opposite, unfortunately mine, and I believe, unfortunately and the interests of Serbian citizens, much, much more often, almost every time what the Minister of Economy is responsible for the part that you do, his statements and his policies win there. We heard today that the only way out of the crisis is to increase consumption. I know you're completely the opposite opinion. But as long as the citizens are the victims of such a policy, that no one can know who does what, or who does what, or what is the consequence of what they do? I repeat again, you make a statement that gives hope to both businesses and citizens that something will change in this country, that there is a plan to get out of the crisis. The prime minister is silent about this, he doesn't appear in this assembly to speak on any subject relating to the economy, to finance, but that's why we have one Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, which each of your statements matches. I also ask you to explain to us, this is a rare opportunity, lately we haven't seen each other here, these 5,000 dinar bonuses, what is government policy? It's the humiliation of citizens, it's the humiliation of workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43100	Mr. Maras, please get close to the subject now, because I'm afraid you've come out of the joint principle and uniform search of points 5 to 11. You've gone into a general economic analysis, so I'm asking you now to link it to a subject that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43101	Mr. Novakovic, if you'd like to talk only about members of the amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43102	I apologize for interrupting, my wishes are my personal problems, and the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure is common. So we separate wishes from the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure, and thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43103	Of course I understand you, Mr. Novakovic, but I have to tell you, I haven't gotten away from the subject for a moment. The theme can be viewed only closely and the theme can be seen a little wider. This topic that today is on the agenda, including these credits that come, look wonders, in 2012. All citizens of this country know what will happen in 2012, we heard it today from representatives of the ruling majority, new elections. How do the first wars do that? I hope you plan, like any serious political party, to stay in power. What's waiting for you? I'm not saying, credits are good, conditions are good, it's just a little bit of timing that's weird. Mrs Dragutinović, today, if I'm not mistaken, is July 19th. When are we going to prepare the budget for next year? I must ask you, as someone on behalf of this Assembly, Mr. Novakovic, was at an interstate meeting where your associate was, where we heard from those who had been through the transition long before, which unfortunately takes ten years for us, that they are getting a budget proposal at this time. They're getting a draft budget at this time. BiH, Albania, Montenegro is Europe for us when it comes to respecting the calendar of the budget. We should think about next year. When do we get the budget? Please, I know that this is not the time to talk, nor can you tell me anything on this subject, but I'm very interested – when are we going to be able to get a budget once in a while, so that we can discuss it here by committee, by Parliament clubs, and then try together with you to create a budget that will be best for our country? I may have asked too many questions, Mr. Novakovic would call it a very broad sticker. But I think they're all in the same context. Just because we don't have a chance to see each other often, of course I don't think it's your fault, but the life we live in, the crisis we've been in requires that we meet much more often, that we hear much more from you and from the other representatives of the government, especially the prime minister. What steps will Serbia and all its citizens and citizens take faster from this crisis? I'm just asking you one more time to tell me who's authorized, let's say, to negotiate with the IMF on this issue of salary increases and pensions, to increase spending, and that's the way out of the crisis. With all due respect, so, Mr Dinkic, who said it, I think it is the most terrible statement in the country's economy and the future. I think it's a great opportunity, you're here now, to get answers to some questions. Once again, we expect to amend the law on value added tax in the context in which I have told you. It means taxpayers, as well as the state of Mrs Dragutinovic. The state is the biggest debtor, you know that the state is the biggest debtor. You have to pay the state VAT even though you haven't charged your claims. The state doesn't settle its obligations. When VAT comes on the agenda and will we have amendments to the tax laws and income contributions, where we expect these taxes and contributions to be reduced, for the simple reason to let go of the economy, entrepreneurs to breathe air and start to work harder. Of course, I'm undermining again, and I don't want to deal with populism or any demagogy, but it's the only time, and I know you're okay with it. Not spending, not increasing consumption, but creating conditions. We expect it from the government. This government has passed a dozen good laws. Some change every once in a while, but she's passed good laws. Some laws are not, some laws are contrary to the Constitution. That's what we were talking about. You have always had LDP support when these laws, above all, create conditions for some European values in this country to be affirmed and Serbia's path to Europe to accelerate. That's why I'm asking you to use your authority as finance ministers to take the dominant role in that government, if one is already ready to keep quiet who was in your position. Let's start with that policy that you're talking about so much, which the Prime Minister is so silent about. Some other ministers are trying to turn that policy upside down.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43104	The word is Mr. Ilic Vladimir, so Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43105	Dear Prime Ministers, dear fellow MPs, I will limit my discussion to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Given that I have personally applied this law as Director of the Tax Administration in a way and I want to express my agreement immediately with what the finance minister said, that we need a new tax procedure law and tax administration, given that the current one is largely in a way and the restriction of the tax administration itself, but often confuses both taxpayers and foreign investors, the procedure is quite complex and this procedure takes a very long time. However, however, today's proposed amendments and additions to this law, in any case, I support for the simple reason that they move in three directions. The first one was already said by Ms. Minister, therefore, to comply with the Law on Infringements, the Law on Court Order. The second is to sharpen tax discipline and the third, I think, what I think is the best part, is the part that concerns incentives, the relaxation of taxpayers. Of course, it's good that the jurisdiction to conduct a misdemeanor procedure is passed on from the IRS to the criminal courts, because I remember often the objections we received from the taxpayers in that people's case, the cadmium that sues you, the cadiya, the tax administration itself, carried out the whole procedure. Those who were dissatisfied could go to the Supreme Court to exercise their rights. This model is far better, more logical. However, what may be called a problem is the capacity and sufficient training of law enforcement courts to conduct this type of offence, given the specificity of matter and one parallel related to our prosecutions, where in the proceedings of those crimes conducted before the prosecutions, we have great inefficiency, sometimes for reasons of lack of recognition to the extent of tax regulations by prosecutors and courts, and the proceedings take a long time and often end with liberating judgments due to obsolescence. So here's just a question of how far the misdemeanor courts are prepared and whether they have the capacity to work this procedure effectively. It is also good that tax inspectors and local tax administrations with central administration are equalised, and this will contribute to better motivation and efficiency of local tax administrations, which will now be in a position to decide together with local authorities and to postpone payment of obligations concerning local income. What I would like to do as a special good in these changes is to change the order of payment of the debt, where the basic debt, then interest, is first to be settled, and then the cost of the procedure, while in the present solution was reversed. I think this solution is both better and more logical. Also, I welcome an interest rate reduction. Namely, the rate of interest rates, as I recall, calculated in percentages today is about 24 or 25 per cent per year-on-year, which is an inappropriate burden for those who are late on payments or due for taxes. It seems to me that according to the current solution, it's going to be about 17 and 18 percent a year, which is a huge charge for taxpayers. The introduction of a single limitation period is a good thing, five years is a unique deadline. That's a good solution. In my view, perhaps the most important thing for those taxpayers who are in the process of reorganisation is the ability to postpone payment of the tax debt by 60 months, which is welcome in terms of the economic crisis and the situation of our economy in most of those who have problems in business and the period of delayed payment of 12 months, which will certainly relax those who are in difficulty. We will certainly support the amendments to this law and agree with the minister that it is necessary and I expect the Ministry of Finance to start making a whole new law. Now I would take this opportunity, since I've been given my word, to share with you some thoughts about the perspective of further development, perhaps the tax system and direction of action. It seems to me that one of the key problems that we have today in our tax system is its structure that is significantly different from the structure of the OECD and EU tax systems. I'll be clearer, where in the tax income structure, not counting contributions, direct taxes, which are taxes on citizens' income, income tax and property tax, participate with only 22% in tax revenues, while on the other side of consumption taxes, above all VAT and excise taxes, participate with 75%, which in itself sounds quite unfair and paradoxical, and of course it's not today, such a situation has been years ago. And at a time when I was in the IRS, for example, direct taxes in OECD countries are 53% and consumption taxes are indirect 41%. Therefore, almost twice as much or almost twice as much is taxed by spending in Serbia, i.e. these revenues participate in our tax system structure more than in the OECD countries and EU countries. I am only saying this in favour of the fact that I think that any increase in taxes on consumption would not be good, because it will further deepen this disproportionate tax burden, but certainly I see places in increasing direct taxation, above all, places in increasing the income tax of citizens, especially large wealth, which is certainly our common commitment, and I think that the minister is also considering synthetic tax and progressive taxation. Taxation of consumption by its nature does not appreciate the economic strength of those who pay taxes. So, all citizens pay consumption taxes. In this regard, such a type of taxation, which does not fully respect the economic power of the taxpayers, is less just than taxation of high incomes at high rates and, in particular, of property tax, which is quite undervalued as tax forms. So, in Serbia there are quite enough rich people to tax, their wealth is visible and transparent, and it seems to me that a joint effort of Parliament, and of course the Ministry of Finance, is needed to take this taxation into fuller scope. In addition, from personal experience, an appeal for the minister to make every effort to improve the material state of the tax administration, especially in terms of profit and other conditions of education opportunities. I believe you're aware that's necessary. I really know the conditions in which people work. This is also needed in other places in the administration, of course, but it seems to me that the tax administration is by its nature, by the work it does, perhaps one of the most important parts of the administration. In this respect, any improvement in their material position and level of education will also contribute to the effectiveness of the tax process itself. Finally, there is also a suggestion on tax and profit contributions. I think the time has come and that in the coming period we must all also make an effort to get to the principle – there is no payoff without contributions. Until we establish that model, we won't have any discipline. Once we have established it, we will also have opportunities to think about a possible reduction in contributions and taxes on profits. If we don't, we'll still leave people without adequate health care and the ability to verify their books, on one side, and some who will wait for retirement for months. I'm sure you're thinking about it, like the entire government, and we're slowly coming out of the period when it was necessary to be gentle on big bonds, according to the big social systems that are definitely in trouble, which in this way may have been needed to relax, but what has to apply to everyone, that's the principle of equal relations with everyone. In that sense, it is not necessary to favour those who do not pay taxes at the expense of those who regularly settle taxes, because that is how we bring them into an unequal position. I've had so much to say about the Tax Procedure Act and certainly our MP group will support the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43106	The damage to the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43107	Mr. Novakovic, I insist that the Parliament in the voting day be made known about the violation of the Rules of Procedure you have made. In accordance with Article 100, I am seeking my right, and you have violated the Rules of Procedure in Rule 93, because you have not given me a word in the order of the registered speakers, because in the system I was registered as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group at the time my colleague Slobodan Maras spoke. Under the current rule that the word is given from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group, giving a word to its party colleague, and knowing that the transfer will be suspended at 1800 hours, probably due to the rerun of a good old series, please make the Assembly in the day to vote declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure you have done concisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43108	So everything you said doesn't match the truth. The transfer will be by 7:30. The order of speakers is exactly what I dictated. I am sorry that you do not follow the order in signing up for the word as authorised representatives, vice presidents or presidents of the parliamentary groups. But it's some quiet rule I don't think is bad. So, your rights, in no way, as deputy head of the parliamentary group, have been violated or damaged. But, of course, since you first asked that in the Parliament's voting day, something that absolutely cannot be an injury to the Rules of Procedure, I will ask the Service to register it and the Assembly will declare in the voting day what you asked for. The word has a minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43109	I'll be very brief. I'd just like to say a few sentences based on the presentation of Ambassador Vladimir Ilic. Although I highly respect his opinion, I must express my dissent by comparing the tax structure of Serbia and the OECD. The first thing, whenever the tax structure is compared, is taken into account and the contributions. So when you consider the contributions, then the picture will look completely different from the one you mentioned. Also, another thing we have to take care of, and it is often forgotten, when it is said that the participation of consumption tax in Serbia is higher than in other countries, it is the result and much greater consumption than the production opportunities of the country, which is reflected in the large balance of payments deficit. So we should not forget that we also had deficits of 18.5% of the social product. Now, fortunately, it is smaller – 5.5%. OECD countries on average have surpluses. Therefore, we have more consumption than production, and even at a low rate we collect more of that tax. So, I disagree with the way that this structure compares and whenever we talk about the ratio of consumption tax to direct taxes, we should always keep in mind only one thing – what is the tax rate, standard and reduced? She best talks about taxation of spending in Serbia. As for direct taxation, I really fully agree with Mr. Ilic. What I insist on, I don't know how clear that is, is a completely fair tax system, and a fair tax system is that those who have the same economic power pay the same, no matter how they earn their income, whether from regular employment or from copyright fees. And of course, those who have more – pay more. After all, the intensity of the changes in laws that I have in mind above all will be seen in the property tax, where you will see clearly how much richer those who are on average will pay more than they pay so far. I completely agree with you that it's time to reform the tax administration. Of course, it's much harder to reform and sharpen, let's say, that stick of ours in the hands of the state in a time of crisis, but it's a job ahead of us. Thank you, and I apologize for the interruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43110	Thank you, Mrs. Dragutinović. The word is Mr. Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43111	One more second of my time to discuss the subject, I will use it to tell you, Mr. Novakovic, you have incorrectly commented on my violation of the Rules of Procedure, because your obligation, as usual, was to me, who was registered in the system, and by order when I was already registered, give your word before the G17 parliamentary group. In order not to make a difference in the application of the Rules of Procedure, I hope that the new rules will be decidently written, so we won't be able to depend in the future, we won't have to depend on your will, and you won't be able to misinformed the public, saying that my right is not violated. It's hurt because you didn't give me your word. I was registered in the system when I was supposed to get that word. If you do not inform us whether there is a transfer or not, I hope that you will now, too, adopt the rules of procedure to inform us at the beginning of the working day, so that we can plan our exposure here, because we are not in these benches to look at each other, but to address the citizens of Serbia, which is why we are here. Mrs Dragutinović, a little anger, which I rightly have the opportunity to express to Mr Novakovic, I will not express any moment towards you, or the subject, because my relationship is not a relationship with people, but to the injustice that is being done, or I want to talk about the changes that you have come here today to present them to us in this home. I'll start with what really needs to be commended, because it's a rare opportunity to praise something, which is that there really is one quality change in the amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. It is contained in Article 12, where, in order to ensure a more appropriate tax burden on taxpayers, the order of payment is changed, when the taxpayer finds and finds the means to settle tax obligations, in order to first settle the main tax liability, then interest and the cost of the procedure. Unfortunately, this will not apply until 1 January 2011, but it is not that far, since it is a quality change. I have to go from what the remarks are. In 2002, the first amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration were. The rapid steps then moved towards restructuring the tax system and the modernisation of the public revenue administration was made. A new system for electronic data processing has been introduced, official reports have been introduced by types of taxpayers in all major cities in the country and what has been under special attention and interest of all citizens, it was to take special care to pay social security contributions and they were then transferred from those old places of collection to the Public Revenue Administration. However, since these changes in 2002 and the modernisation of the system, all the support the German GTZ Fund has given and given to the Ministry of Finance, in terms of advice and technical support, we are today facing two open issues, the largest and most interesting for the citizens of Serbia. How is it possible that through such a centralised and modern system, someone who retires has no work experience, no payment of contributions, and businesses operating in the legal frameworks of the Serbian state are under the constant bat of all authorities in charge of controlling legal work and receiving employees? All that we bring as measures, all the laws that we view and as mathematical models, as economic systems, through the achievements of software, information technologies, ultimately come down to the lives of a Serbian citizen who retires and cannot exercise that right because he is not being paid contributions. We're talking about having a deficit as a low-paying state or a lack of funds that we want to finance some state expenditures or obligations that the state has towards citizens and then we have only two ways, saving this country has given up, to make up for those holes. One is borrowing, when we charge future generations and another is an increase in tax obligations, and that is the burden of this generation and the burden of this generation. We have, not one, but three, several agreements and I'll talk about it later, but what you're pressuring at the time of the political and election campaign, which isn't just officially called, but it's taking a lot of time, by all the opportunities we have to see, it turns out that the simplest thing to go is not to increase VAT, because there's no way to pay a bigger VAT, but to go to more tax discipline and we'll always welcome it, but in order for someone to ask for tax discipline from the other participants in payment traffic must have it alone. In the day for asking parliamentary questions, I asked the question – how is it possible that a carrier from the town of Cupria, named Antic, among other things, and your ministry was asked a question, a man who was regularly given the procedure to transport students from three primary schools and pensioners, has unpaid claims from local self-government that the money received as transfer funds from the Republic, was forced to sue in order to achieve his claim and is now asked to go to a settlement in which he will give up his proven claims, which the state has in terms of words, the most direct, local self-government. So, the state owes someone, to a particular security man who provides services or a contractor, or to anyone, and asks him to either press a lawsuit or when a verdict is made, to agree on a settlement, where whoever asks for his money would have to drop, to forgive debts, and the state has the possibility, here, by coming, with one legislative proposal to the MPs, to come out and say – there is one good side of this law and the other, is not bad, the reduction of interest. This one good one where we first charge basic debt, interest and side expenses, and everything else is harder. The limitation period shall be extended, however, in accordance with the Bonds Act, to five years, but from the date on which a tax claim has been established on a document. So, it's not years anymore, it's not three years, it's five years of the state asking for a tax liability. It's harder. The corporate tax administration is shutting down, as far as I can see from this proposal and you're not explaining it. I expect you'll explain, maybe you skipped, because you just walked in and you had to explain the law. In particular, there are cases called restructuring, which is to introduce specific conditions for those not drawn from the drum, not according to some criteria known to us, but by the decision of the Minister for Economy and Regional Development, are privileged enterprises that go into restructuring, and they are forgiven by the debt of one to the burden of the budget, or all of us. You didn't tell us what this means under that State Aid Control Act where we're now putting someone in a more favourable position, or we're denying the state the payment of one part of tax revenue. You've re-introduced a self-reporting institute, so I baptize it for myself. Do we, by self-reporting institute, where we promise someone who owes tax obligations that we will not conduct a misdemeanor because someone will pay the obligations he has alone, we continue to force tax non-discipline, so those who regularly pay for it are wrongly placed in the same rank, meaning unpunished, we put those who did not pay in time, so they found themselves under a misdemeanor procedure. Believe me, these aren't really real questions. That's all the questions under two. One is, did the state correctly measure the opportunities for businesses and citizens to pay taxes, according to the wishes of the state and the question above all questions is, will anyone ever go out in this home or at any other forum, or show the site who are the biggest taxpayers, which is the most guarded secret in this country? You can find out all the information from the private life of every public and less public person, you can find out about me from the congregation restaurant, you can know how much coffee he drank, who he went where he traveled, who he talked to, even conversations between people without a court order are available, which was recently the case when he got involved in the topic and protection of citizens, but the list of the biggest taxpayers is the most protected secret. Why? Because they are the finances of political parties that are able, strength and capacity, that is to say, they are available to data that in different ways do not leave these people on those open programmes where they are regularly warned, blocked or so on. So those who are in power allow someone who funds them not to see how much they owe. In some circumstances, I know a part of that data, but I wouldn't dare because I don't have the original document to bring it up. You can have it. As part of your ministry, which has a really wide range of jobs, you may not be able to follow it directly, but in this country everything has become the subject of a market transaction. Not to call you if you owe a tax, not to say that you did some transaction not legally, that your case is being held in some drawer and that it won't help us much, not even much, I hope, but I'm afraid it won't, this conduct of a procedure both first-degree and second-degree from the tax administration to criminal courts, as you've explained, a criminal court in the first-degree and senior court in the second-degree. What concerns me and what always appears as a dilemma, in addition to Article 46, where untimely tax payments are encouraged, that's where we said self-reporting and unsecured budget costs, in terms of state aid control, by someone going to go into a special process of reorganisation, the question is why in this part of the job alone, I'm talking about the tax, in order to achieve increasing consistency in the application of the law, the proposed precision of individual legal solutions, which I can commend, that what less interpretations know how much tax is due and how criminal consequences will be suffered if they don't pay in time. In the afternoon debate, we had amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. With so many undefined things and with an open request that the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, who is responsible for legal interpretations not only adopts, or violates the law itself, but also gives himself an opinion on the law that applies. The Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, the fight against corruption, the control of state aid cannot be defined, undefined to the end and unclear, and the tax administration is placed on this section called precise interpretation. So, the laws in this country not only have to be fair, logical, they have to be consistent with each other in order for tax collection to really be such that every citizen can say – I will report to whoever does not pay the tax because this is my country, my country, my government, which deserves to pay her taxes and to report to whoever does not pay the tax. At this point, with this attitude towards its economy, with such legal solutions, with such tax burdens and such injustices, it can't be expected from the economy or from the citizens. Because as soon as someone is willing to tax evasion and risk dragon penalties for it or to know that there's an address, some man who can save him from paying his legal obligation, then everyone else will look up to the system of irregular relations to their obligations to the state, and in a closed circle that will mean less rights for both kindergartens and schools, both for hospitals and for the police. I'm convinced that you don't even know how many construction firms work for big and important people as subcontractors, those on the first lists, on the first numbers of those pages, who owe as large taxpayers and who someone says, there are those smaller ones who will pay for you. Do you know how many people say - no one arrests big fish, but they come from us small ones, from the hairdressers, the shoelaces and the small millers? Is that what's going on in America today and what was published yesterday on the BBC, where it's said that Barack Obama passed the law under which an earthquake is going to happen in American banks? You know what they think under the earthquake -- that big banks rip you to bits, so big systems wouldn't have to nurse you, that the entire economy wouldn't be dragged into the sun. Why do you allow some to grow so large that they then represent their problems with a large number of employees as a state problem, and in the meantime they didn't pay their contributions, if they paid their salaries at all or took them black. That's the obligation of this organ we're talking about today. What made me mention that decision that was made in both American homes, I mentioned it because of Professor Moricia's conclusion, which says this: "I don't think Minister of Finance Timothy Geitner is really aware of the scale of the problem (the proportions of the problem are the crisis that lasts and is in the financial sector). My impression is that the financial contributions that have been fed to campaigns and Democrats and Republicans have diluted the debate process in both the Senate and the House of Representatives, because there are too many actors who owe Wall Street too much to do right. This requires the president's leading role, but our president is inexperienced when it comes to financial issues, and we have a finance minister who hasn't said anything deep or useful. I fear that we, even as America, will sail through crisis waters," Mr. Morichi told BBC. I find no other similarity in this text except for this part – that there are many who owe a Wall Street here. In order to engage in a serious reform of the tax system, and you, personally who are not burdened with it, really have a key role to play and we expect you to act on these octopus, which their tentacles provide on the state budget, without returning even by minimum compliance with the legal obligations by paying taxes neatly and contributing to the salaries of their workers so that they can go into retirement politely. It's a job that the government has to do, and it can't do any IMF, no other credit, and no other savings, and we're more of a dry drain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43112	Thank you, too. There's a word, if he answers, Mr. Milorad Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43113	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, we have seven laws ahead of us. I will talk about the first law – about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, but these six laws are bound, especially these three laws relating to the ratification of the debt contract, because it is precisely due to inadequate tax policy borrowing of the state. If we had an adequate tax policy, if it had been built, we wouldn't probably have these borrowings today, especially borrowings that have been present in the last year, year and a half. What tax policy is, may a statement from Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, who said somewhere in January: "The relevant tax system in Serbia is unfair because it protects the richest. We want to change the tax system, so in that direction we suggested and made a draft of amendments and additions to the Property Act. "Unfortunately, this law and a set of other laws from the tax system did not come into the congregation debate. It'll probably be. What has been a fundamental feature of our tax system since 2000 is the inadequate tax policy required, which is necessary. It must be regressive, it must be transparent, it must be open, it must be cheap, it must be cheap from the point of view of cheap collection of tax-based income and must change the structure of fiscal policy, because today, based on direct taxes compared to the European Union, we get twice as much as it is in the European Union, and on the basis of indirect taxes, we have far more borrowings than it is in the European Union. Not nominally at tax rates, but a dutiful review of income, as Mr Ilic said, speaks of that we, based on indirect taxes, have somewhere in the structure of the current 2010 budget something about 70% and 30% are direct taxes. In the European Union, it is completely different. In developed market economies, there is an even bigger difference and it is necessary for the state to make a fully comprehensive tax reform. That the position of the SRS is correct, the European Commission also says, which for 2008, has said what is necessary to do and what are the fundamental remarks of the European Commission on the functioning of the state apparatus and state institutions of the Republic of Serbia. The European Commission says Serbia does not have a long-term and medium-term structural reform strategy. The question for Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance – you also said in the opening statement that this is one of the changes, we need a comprehensive tax procedure and tax administration law. When are we gonna meet him? After the inauguration for the finance minister, you announced a comprehensive tax reform. Here, we've been guslamo for two years under these legal regulations that have been laid down by the laws of the period of communism. You yourself say that tax policy in Serbia is unfair. It's unfair because it protects the rich and it takes as much from the poor as it takes from the rich. So we're in an absurd situation, that poor people put as much into the budget as they're rich. If I'm wrong, give me an explanation. Besides, that's what you said. Furthermore, the European Commission says that there are no sustainability measures for public finances, that public finances are in crisis, that we have less and less inflows in budgetary terms. That's obvious. Just to remind ourselves, the basic principles of government chosen in 2008 were not deficits in the budget, which is now the largest in history, but surplus for 2010. Let's say - the global economic crisis, domestic factors, objective and subjective problems, etc. But what's the principle is that you haven't made a comprehensive tax reform. Two years is enough to look at. You are, among other things, theorist in this area. You've written a lot about the fiscal system, and it's your responsibility, and it's your biggest responsibility. The other ministers in this area don't get along. You are an expert in this area and it has been your obligation to create an adequate tax system that will meet current economic relations, economic conditions in the economy, in the areas of life and work and business in the Republic of Serbia. What's the problem with the tax system? The tax system is very complicated. He's expensive. Workers working in this area work with very small salaries. I took the data from the Tax Administration – there a high professional store has a salary of between 35,000 and 38,000 dinars; the middle expert prepares it 20 to 23,000; the lower expert prepares we come to absurdities. The average profit in Serbia, it's a high professional cook, in the most elite state body. The tax administration must be the most exclusive state body, if there is no motive, there is no success. That's why our financial discipline is the way it is. That's why we have these problems in the collection of income and financial discipline. Now we have tried to increase criminal policy, increase penalties, and we expect financial discipline to rise. He won't. We're gonna lose what he's doing. Here is the data: in 2010, in six months, 1,687 companies and 18,525 companies were closed, a total of 20,100 business entities suspended. At the beginning of the year, we had 66,000 blocked companies by the IRS, eight thousand went bankrupt. At this point, we have about 58,000 blocked companies by the IRS. All those who've been blocked off to the black market. Mrs Dragutinovic, according to government data, was moving goods in value on the black market, both in production and commercial terms, in 2008 about 4 billion. Last year, it doubled, which is 25% of the gross social product. A dozen billion are expected this year. It's 30% gross social product. Who can stop that? Nobody. This can stop an adequate tax policy, a stimulating tax policy, but at the same time a strict tax policy that will drive the black market into regular legal flows. You can't do that with these laws. You can't do that. Why? Because you favor tycoons, because they don't allow you to change the tax system. If I'm wrong, correct me. It was quite enough time in these two years to enter a comprehensive tax reform, as you have announced. Furthermore, you announced a tax reduction and some government ministers also announced a tax reduction, a VAT increase, etc., but all of these were beatings. It's a waste of dust. You in the government don't have an adequate cohesion force that will, in an economic and financial sense, form a strategy, the one concerning economic development, the one concerning stopping negative flows, the one concerning creating preconditions for reviving everything that is now shut down. If we have a day-to-day growth in stopping business operators due to indivisibility, due to blockades, due to the inability to meet certain obligations, you must act fire-fightingly, you must act preventively and curatively, to save everything that is burning right now. It doesn't seem like anything. What you've done with the subsidy system, it's help, but only to those medium and large enterprises. The little ones don't see themselves there. They go to banks, however, the banks don't watch them. They're not interested in banks. Why did you direct that policy through banks? You have a development fund. Why are you avoiding the Development Fund? For years, the SRS has been warning you, take advantage of the fund's benefits, and this fund, to keep it operational and to keep these financial flows flowing from budget to bank, to rotate within the Development Fund. The practice of Western-European developed countries 20, 30, 50 years ago was such that all free state resources, all free funds were put into development funds and therefore have the kind of economy they have. Not shut down, like the situation is with us. I am chairing the Committee on Industry. On several occasions trade unions, the Union of Employers, Chamber of Commerce, etc. They object to the government's policy concerning, among other things, this law. It refers to the huge donations that the economic operator has at the time of production. Those importing re-promaterials must pay the supplier and settle all obligations when re-compromitrals enter the country. The state pays customs and VAT. The State obligation to VAT-ai customs shall be paid immediately. Furthermore, since the re-pro-material has to be processed, the product is made, the economic operator is obliged to pay all taxes, all contribute, to pay both all material and immaterial costs and only then to charge from its buyer. Look, that gap between imports of repromaterials, production and collection takes months. Meanwhile, the economic operator pays VAT, pays customs, pays all the dues. From what means because he's unable to charge? It used to be through various advances, so you take an advance of 20, 30, 50, 70%. You're out of advance today. The only option is to go to the bank, get a 20, 30 loan, even more. Economic operators, but also business institutions, are asking the state to correct the VAT and you need to take that step. This is the last moment to help the economy because we won't have an economy very soon. Economic operators cannot reconcile VAT in this way as it is now designed and legal. Furthermore, the economic operators resent the unfair competition they have from the importers. Everything and everything, suspicious quality, etc. is imported. There is no adequate control of imports. With such unfair competition, the domestic producer cannot be competitive. He's throwing himself out of the economics game. His product remains in storage, and a foreign product is sold which is more unquality, and even if it is not more unquality, we must give priority to the domestic producer because it is done by all reasonable countries of the world. What is important to point out, I received information from workers in the Tax Administration, low earnings, poor motivation of workers, inadequate equipment, inadequate business space, inability to go out on the ground, in particular regarding inspection services. A state that doesn't have an apparatus that can adequately control the market can't collect income, so we don't have income in this sense as you plan. According to your website, the finance ministry, the deficit in the 2010 budget, for six months, is 54,614,000. Now that we see in the structure where it failed, we see that exactly where the most sufficient revenues are in the budget, these are indirect taxes, there are inflows smaller, there's less control, there's no tax police participation, and there's an appointment. Besides, there's a gray market that pays nothing. But these people are driven out of legal flows by inadequate tax policy, inadequate credit policy, because instead of having had a development bank or having turned funds and the Development Fund into a real development bank, here we are now having discussions about forming a development bank and stimulating this mutilated economy through the development bank. What financial indicators can we expect by the end of the year? For years, the SRS has indicated, when considering the budget, that everything we see in the balance sheet is not adequate. The deficit will break in this year. It is planned at 102 billion. These indicators in six months say they'll be far bigger. Cumulative indicators for the state too, you counted on 121 billion, will be about 150, up to 170 billion dinars. Where do you keep that from? Credits. That's why we have these agenda points, these three, even so far. That's why we have these huge borrowings through the purchase of securities from banks and by those who currently have extra funds. Still, given the time, just one sentence of yours. The moment, three months ago, when the dinars began to wave, the rise relative to the euro, you went out with one, in my opinion, unmeasured statement. In an undosed statement, because there was no adequate policy of the Ministry and the Tax Administration, and of all other state authorities, which had to prevent everything you said, and you said that dinar values were guilty of speculators. The next day, the governor disproved you in all of this and said that everything was done by law. You as finance minister cannot go out with such statements, you must not go out with such statements if they do not stand. And they don't stand. Why? If speculative actions are done, then state authorities must prevent speculative actions. Have they been prevented? They weren't prevented because everything was done in accordance with the law. Who bought the foreign exchanges, no one knows. You see, I objected to the governor, and I object to you. Open up, be transparent, just like you said after the victory in October 2000 that everything would be transparent, open those files and see who buys the foreign exchanges.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43114	I'm sorry, Mrs. Dragutinovic has her word first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43115	Although it is my desire to end this session effectively, or at least these points, I would have to refer to my comments. So my statements are never undosed because I'm really not an undosed person. When I used the word speculation, not speculators, or speculators, I used it the way every financial dictionary uses it. So, the completely normal thing on the financial market is two types of transactions: arbitration and speculation. Arbitration means when you use the price difference in different markets and buy it where it's cheaper, you sell it on the one where it's more expensive. Speculation means when you have some information, or you think you have it based on the past, and you expect something different, and that difference between the past and the expectations you actually profit from. They're authorized operations. So, the words I used, I mean in that interview or I don't know what it was, speculation, arbitration are words like you would have found, or an explanation of those words can be found in every financial dictionary, and I use a financial dictionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43116	The word is Mr. Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43117	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we're glad you're back with us, you've been gone a few months and we're discussing a set of seven laws. It's kind of a custom when you're there to always be some kind of package of laws, and neither you nor I, probably, can find a connection that has united all these seven points, and in one time of five hours, we need to discuss such important things. Three of these seven laws are laws that regulate borrowings. The loan, i.e. the law on confirming an interstate agreement between Serbia and Russia, is particularly interesting. More than a year ago, the interstate agreement was announced, which should include, about, a billion, somewhere the euro was said, about a billion dollars, but one was budget support, and the other was meant to be credits for certain projects. Since there are obviously no projects, the first in line comes this part that needs to fill the budget. While the government, on the one hand, is talking about how the goal is to launch production, how it is to invest in projects, of all these possibilities, we are filling the budget. This law is interesting by something else. That may be the shortest law the Assembly has discussed so far. The law has only three members, including a third who says the law is in effect by publishing in an official messenger. If there was no reason for this law, we wouldn't know what these funds are used for. In any word in the text of the law, it is not said that these are the funds that need to be filled in the budget. The argument is only used in this debate, when the law is passed, it will be a law that does not say by any single letter that these funds go to the government of the Republic of Serbia and is not said to be the purpose of using these funds. What opens up as a question when laws like this come to you on the agenda, and that's what the budget situation is like. Whether, after all, it will be better for us to limit the sustainability of our debt, what is the external debt, what is the public debt. That's all the questions that ask for answers. The very fact that we are in debt to fill the budget and to reduce and fill the deficit speaks enough about the situation in which Serbia is. Of course, you will say that other countries are doing it, and I would very much like Serbia to compare with the United States, Great Britain and all those countries. Unfortunately for me, we're a long way from it. Until a few days ago, the government convinced us that the public debt was 31.9%, and then it turned out that the public debt wasn't that big, but it was 34.4%. Am I wrong? Then I apologize, since it's obvious that in the ruling coalition someone is going to submit to other people's amendments and that someone is obviously writing other people's answers. You responded to us, or to our colleague Radulovic, on June 28, 2010, where there are four paragraphs in total, so that I do not read all four, but in the third paragraph, you say "the participation of public debt in GDP on 31 May 2010 is 34.4%". What? (Diana Dragutinovic: I thought you were talking about 2009. No, we're talking about the future, we're not going back in time. We're just talking about things that are ahead of us, with a lot of optimism, we're looking into the future. (Diana Dragutinovic: When you compare Serbia with other countries in the same period of time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43118	Madam Minister, please leave the dialogue for later, and now, Mr. Radojko, continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the public debt isn't 32.4% but 34.4%, and that's on condition that we don't count on those funds that we pulled out of the IMF, and that's not where all the loans go in. No, they're not IMF funds, because you say it's not debt. There are no funds from all those loans we have approved in the Assembly that have not yet been withdrawn, and for Corridor 10, and for all those funds waiting to be withdrawn, when we withdraw them and that will be public debt. The external debt is quite alarming, it is 75% of GDP and has shown itself in this crisis, which has affected the whole world, that when the crisis is over then part of the external debt, regardless of its public debt, becomes public debt. The countries in charge have been shown to have serious problems. The second thing, the experience of a developing country shows that already when the rate of 60% of external debt is crossed, it represents a disturbance in development. Research shows, that's what we did, Mr. Bajec was the head of a team, I don't know if you had a chance to see that research, that countries that had a debt greater than 60% had a growth rate even 2% less in the years that then came. What's been waiting for us for the next few months, it's a change of law on PIO, and there's a clear fact that you were right. I am sorry that there is no gentleman and gentlemen from the PUPS, but it is quite clear that everything is as you said then, and it is nothing like Mr. Krkobic said. We have a fiscal responsibility law ahead of us, and we look forward to seeing what the limits will be for the government's economic policy. I must say, the very brave goal is to reduce the deficit by 2015 to only 1%. It's a big challenge for every government, especially this one. How does the government essentially work? I'll show you on the case. This is now not an answer to Mr Radulovic's parliamentary question, but the answer to the parliamentary question I asked you. I asked a parliamentary question at a session on 18 May 2010. The cabinet of Prime Ministers, according to the number, received the parliamentary issue on May 19th. He forwarded it to the General Secretariat of the Government for further jurisdiction. The secretary general got it eight days later, May 27th, so he sent it to the finance ministry. The finance ministry received the same letter on June 15th. You've been very up-to-date, you've already given your answer on the 16th. So, one day after the question came, you delivered the answer. Well done. The answer to the Assembly arrived on June 30th 2010. So from the moment the question was asked, to the moment the answer came, it was a month and a half. In doing so, it took only one day for your answer, and the other 44 days were a variety of courier jobs between certain state institutions. That's what they complain about and all those who come to work in Serbia. The real work that needs to be done is very short, but all that time that goes on waiting takes an endlessly long time. It's one of the secrets why we're where we are. In that same answer, you say that only in 2011, based on all the positive things that are happening now, will there be conditions for employment growth, through growth in investment and exports. When we look at all the data processed by the statisticians, we see that in the first five months industrial production is 5.5% higher than a year ago. These are certainly data that could create a certain hope and point to a mild recovery. Of course, it should be taken into account that these data are significantly above the data and above industrial production that was in 2008 and that it will take years, at this rate of growth, to arrive in 2008, and it is known that 2008 was not such a great year and that industrial production was quite small in 2008. Exports of 18% in the first five months compared to 2009, but only 90% of exports from 2008, while making sure significant devaluation is achieved. It should also be taken into account that our country's largest foreign trade partners are in the environment, that they did not have devaluation, that we created this kind of export growth with the drop of the dinar. We have data that's worse than in 2008. It's reduced employment, which was usually very small. When a labour poll compares, and you answer the same question to me, the employment rate in April 2008 was 45%, the employment rate in April 2010 was 38%, the decline of 7%. The unemployment rate was 13.3% in 2008 and 19.2% in 2010. Unemployment growth 6% in two years. When we look at businesses, there's no chargeable claims, there's an increasing credit risk for businesses, and there's a growing strain on business conditions. It is clear that we will wait very long for that year to return in 2008, which we have all characterised as not a very successful year. It is clear that growth will depend on countries in the environment, on the EU, that it will depend on demand and will depend on foreign direct investment. When we look at the data from the EU, it is clear that there is not a great deal going on there either. There's no idea what new markets we can win. The EU accession process does not go as we hoped because of the problems they have, because of the problems we have. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that the government has just passed the first half of its mandate. It's going into the pre-election period. If the government in this first half of its mandate has struggled hard with these coalition challenges, if each partner has pushed its projects, if everyone has had their demands, we will hardly expect that in the years to come, by the time the elections are held, reforms will be carried out, that the government will have a single policy. You can see for yourself how many problems you've had with tax policy, and your proposal for tax reform is practically the only reform measure this government has proposed. Everything else was ad hoc measures. You yourself have faced a number of problems in proposing such a root reform. All in all, there are many reasons to worry, there are many reasons for fear, especially when considering that by the end of the year you have to service practically 96-97 billion of those records that have been broadcast earlier, 86 plus 10, those sold by the National Bank and which arrive on December 31st.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43120	It was used 12 minutes and 30 seconds of time by representatives of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of DSS, Forward Serbia and the SRS parliamentary group. The first registered speaker is MP Milos Radulovic, followed by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43121	In the context of this united debate on seven points, they will refer to those points relating to credit debt. We've got three laws here relating to the credit line. One agreement between the Republic of France and Serbia amounts to 11mm, 185m euros. One agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank is 50m euros. And that loan my colleague Obradovic was talking about is a loan between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation of $200m or has been recalculated about 156m euros, which is intended to cover the budget deficit. The total debt of all these loans is around 218m euros. With these three loans since the beginning of the year, Serbia has been in debt somewhere near one billion euros. In March, we were in charge of 505m euros, in May for 200m euros, and now with this 218m we come about close to a billion-euro figure. It would be no dispute if these loans were used for modernisation, for a better life, for a higher standard of citizens, for a greater number of jobs. The problem is that exactly a large part of these loans were used to refinance current liabilities, liquidity and cover the budget deficit. I will remind you only that credit obligations related to "Srbigas" have just been used to refinance liabilities and maintain liquidity and that their amount is 320m euros. We also had in March a couple of loans, i.e. four loans with commercial banks of 190m euros, with the "Marfin Bank", "Alpha Bank", "Pireus Bank" and "Vojvodjanska Banka", with interest essentially on commercial interest. We are now in debt with a $200m loan, and given the length and difficulty of the negotiations, it is clear that it has been taken under commercial conditions. When all these figures are collected, you are only in this year, which in order to refinance liabilities, liquidity and cover the budget deficit, you have committed about 650,000 euros, and that, Mrs Dragutinovic, only in this year. The 2010 budget envisions a budget deficit of 107 billion dinars. However, on the basis of an agreement with the IMF, you were agreed to make the budget deficit 4.75% of the gross social product or, more specifically, 147.000,000 euros. A few days ago, it was announced that the budget deficit for the first six months was 54.61 billion dinars and that the deficit stemmed from revenue cuts and increased public spending. Now, Mrs Dragutinovic, it is already clear to everyone that in the coming months we will also be here to discuss credit obligations to cover such a large budget deficit. So, in front of us, it's already clear to everyone, there will be a new bill of responsibilities for covering budget gaps, which in many ways stem from your unconscious work and abuse. How else can it be explained that a lot of people's money was spent not knowing how, and now I'm going to explain it to you plastically. Publicly, about one billion euros of money went through public procurement without knowing where. What is it, Mrs Dragutinovic, with the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia? As far as I know, you're sitting on the board of the Development Fund and maybe we'll get some answers from you, which is why the citizens of Serbia don't know who we're lending, or who you're lending from the Development Fund? Why is it not known which companies and individuals took billions of dinars and where they spent them? By what criteria did they get them? Are all these loans spent on purpose? Why, Mrs Dragutinović, do you refuse to publish their names? How did fourm euros of credit get the Croatian firm Nexa, the Slovenian firm "Grah Automatic Pyreum GMBH"? How is it possible, Mrs Dragutinovic, that a group of seven persons, including a lawyer, an evaluation of the Development Fund, can allow more people through wild, practically non-existent companies, who were not at all engaged in the activities for which they were registered, to obtain loans and to obtain more than 200,000 dinars from the budget of the Republic of Serbia based on these approved loans? It is estimated that in this way, billions of dinars have been embezzled from the Republic of Serbia's budget. These are, Mrs Dragutinovic, the people's money, which you, on various grounds, kill from citizens who somehow manage to reconcile their obligations to the state while at the same time deprive themselves of many things. They deprive their family of clothes, shoes, books, newspapers, travels, and many things and many of them remain very little to live for. The chairman of the Governing Board of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which should decide on the level of money spending from the Fund, is Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Dragutinovic, Mr Mladjan Dinkic. The members of the Management Board are, Mrs Dragutinovic – who has come out at the moment, likely to take some information, so that she may challenge what I am saying, but I also have the documentation here – then Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, then Minister Sulejman Ugljanin, Minister Rasim Ljajic, Minister Milutin Mrkonjic, and that the way this Fund works and how the funds of the Fund are spent is controlled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Government members, including Prime Minister Cvetkovic, have repeatedly said that Serbia's development opportunity lies in agriculture and that the state will do everything to improve the conditions in this branch and that it will in this sense stimulate agricultural producers. However, while you had a hand and a hat to throw the money of the Development Fund, as well as the money in the public procurement process, you did not have or did not want to give, or to allocate 1.2m euros to protect these same agricultural producers from natural disasters and, as a result, you made a loss to Serbian agriculture and to agricultural producers worth more than 220m dinars. It is a picture and an opportunity of your domestic relationship with agricultural producers, with the citizens of Serbia, and with the way they spend their money. On June 22nd, I asked the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture - why are they so irresponsible to agricultural production and what will they do to protect agricultural crops? To this day, I have not received an answer, except that Minister of Agriculture Sasa Dragin, who likes to take pictures in a comfortable mood, sportingly trained, helps these agricultural producers unload the quantities and quantities of fertilizer, drives a combination, and has no license, which is the same question for Mr Dragin, when he can't answer this question of my own and guides me, Mrs Dragutinovic, I hope you hear, at the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, that they will answer this question of mine. Speaking of questions and answers, the other day, more precisely on June 30th, I received an answer to the parliamentary question concerning the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. That answer was signed by you, Mrs Dragutinović, and thank you. You replied that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on 31 May is 34.4% of GDP and is 10.541,000 euros, with the 2010 GDP projection of three thousand and one hundred and one billion points of thirty-five million dinars. Given that the Republic of Serbia regularly serves public debt obligations and that the sustainability of public debt is an indicator of public debt participation in the gross social product below the so-called so-called, so you responded to me, the limit of medium debt, which is 40%, we believe there are no difficulties in paying off public debt. If you continue to take loans to refinance your debt and as long as you can find someone who can lend you money to cover your budget deficit, there will probably be no difficulties. It's just a question of how far and what is the limit to which you can be in charge? Mrs Dragutinovic, let's see how much the public debt of the Republic of Serbia really is. Where are the 1.4 billion-euro funds withdrawn from the IMF arrangement, as well as the special rights of withdrawal? Juri Bajec, adviser to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, says about the debt, "The total external debt of Serbia currently stands between 23 billion and 24 billion euros, of which is about eight billion euros or about 32% of the state's debt. If a debt is added under the arrangement with the IMF, then it is a public debt (and this goes in favour of Mr Obradovic's story) 37% of the gross social product. Most of the debt, around 15.4 billion, refers to private debt to companies, banks and companies to abroad. The state itself must be very careful (so said Mr. Bajec) to consider borrowing abroad. ''In addition to the arrangement with the IMF is a public debt, Mr Radovan Jelasic said here when we held a debate on the National Bank of Serbia. Radovan Jelasic said on June 15th, "Of course the debt to the IMF is part of the public debt." He also said 1.4 billion euros have been withdrawn from the IMF arrangement so far. Mrs Dragutinović, what is the public debt? Is it 10 billion and 541 million euros? Or, as we've calculated by collecting the funds taken from the IMF and the special right to draw, just over 12 billion, exactly 12.3 billion? Is he 31.6%, as you said the other day, or is 34.4 of the gross social product, as you replied in this letter, or is 37%, as Mr. Bajec, the prime minister's adviser, says? Or, if the planned gross social product is 3.151 billion and the public debt is over 12 billion, how much did we calculate, is about 40% of the gross social product? Are we a country on the border of middle duty, as you say, or are we already a highly in charge of the country? Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic, I have his statement here, said in a statement to Tanjug on 26 May: "The small external debt bears witness to Serbia's great development potential". According to NBS, the total external debt is 24.8 billion euros, and is that, Mrs Dragutinovic, a small or large debt? The World Bank's criterion is the participation of total external debt in GDP. The stake below 48% is considered a small debt, and in Serbian case it is 76.2% of gross social product, i.e. We're on the verge of being a highly-indebted country. That's what Serbian citizens need to know. The IMF criterion only monitors the level of public debt in GDP, not private, and if it crosses 40% of GDP, the state is considered to be highly in charge. Our debt is about 40%. You should tell us where we belong, whether we're in high charge, maybe we're a little in charge, and maybe we're at the edge of this sustainability that you're talking about. Mrs Dragutinovic, you said on July 14th that during the period 2006 to 2010, the growth of external debt was the result of the depression of the dinar course, which was greater than inflation, as well as that the state was deleveraging during the same period, and the economy was in debt to abroad. Is that right? If we're already discussing credit claims here, if last year we had 3.3 billion credits that we verified in this Assembly, if we have almost a billion in this year, I don't see how that state has been decommissioning. You've created a lot more obligations for all citizens. Who and why do you want to deceive, both President Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic, who, speaking of two years of government work, says that it is the hardest for us and that we have a period of recovery? Let me ask you, does an ordinary citizen feel what he has from what Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic is saying? What does he think of all of you anyway? That you deceive him and do nothing to make him feel better. Businesses and economists say the recovery period will begin when the number of employees is greater than the number of those who have lost their jobs. Since the start of this government, over 200,000 people have been out of work. You promised 200,000 jobs. In this year alone, 45,000 workers are out of work. The recovery will be when citizens have higher salaries, jobs, when there are no millions of poor. In the end, let me advise you to start fulfilling the promises you made to the citizens when you created this ruling coalition and when you formed the government and that you do not seek blame for your unfulfilled promises elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43122	21,50 minutes of Parliament time was used. The word has been given by MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43123	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Dragutinovic, I fully agree that the tax law is one of the very important laws. However, I think you should have said more about the Russian loan, because it is unusual and under its favourable conditions is much better than the mass of other loans we had on the agenda this year and last year. I'll talk about it later. There are certainly good elements in the tax and tax administration law and it is in line with the 2006 Law on the financing of local self-government. In that sense, it can be said that the legislator had good intentions. However, like other laws in this sphere, they face a kind of reality that is reflected in this economic and political environment in the IMF. It is enough to compare only the last letter of intent that you and the Governor and Prime Minister, if I am not mistaken on 10 June 2010, sent Stros Khan, where it is seen that this assistance to local self-government in terms of strengthening staff and tax administration will still be insufficient, because as you know in 2009, the government has committed to reducing expenditure on local self-government, if I am not mistaken, that figure was around 160m euros, which is disastrous, especially for those poor municipalities in southern Serbia and in other parts of our country. Also, I can't understand, there's been a lot of talk here about the tax administration being paid badly, that their position should be improved, we totally agree with that. However, as possible if the IMF, which runs economic policy in this country, is seeking to freeze salaries and pensions both in the public sector and pensions for all pensioners. It's something that's being excluded and it's going to be very difficult to improve the situation of the tax administration if the IMF, I'm going to use that term, step by step destroying the state administration, the state authorities, and what I'm not saying, both the economy and the entire society of this country. When I was preparing for this law and for these other laws, I called for a profession, and you will agree that the biggest expert in this area is Bozidar Raicevic, who wrote the "public finances" textbook. He writes on page 361 of this textbook that fiscal decentralisation has very important implications for the functioning of the public sector. However, what you are doing is good, but on the other hand everything you do will be destroyed by the IMF and related institutions, such as the World Bank, which you do not say, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, which is mentioned in these seven laws, because, as you know, in a letter of intent, you may in fact have been forced by a kind of economic blackmail to promise privatisation in the public sector, whatever it means in practice, and it is seen by the resistance of professional and other public in the case of Telekom what it means. Also, Mr. Raicevic, he argues, and there is absolutely right, that the quality of public expenditure in this case is conditioned by this fiscal decentralisation, but argues that fiscal decentralisation is not a kind of dogma, but must be adapted to concrete conditions. The specific conditions in this country, I repeat, are conditioned by this rigid policy, I will use the term, which is dictated by the IMF. The main problem is that your good intentions in practice will certainly not succeed because of the IMF and that is the main problem of economic policy in this country. I'm going to give another example, on page four of the intentional letters, there's a reduction in the number of employees at the central and local level. What happens if the IMF asks for a reduction in the number of employees in the tax administration. If I am not mistaken, the letter of intent also says that reforms in the tax sector will be made in line with external and internal factors. I think that external factor is the IMF. Also, as far as the profession is concerned, it represents an uninterrupted phase and a process of evolution in this sector. Therefore, one environment should be found between these IMF requirements and the social status of not only workers in the tax administration, but also the social situation of people working in the local administration. If I am not mistaken about Articles 7 and 9 of this proposal, it is proposed to establish a basis for assessing the criteria for the determination of large taxpayers, which is now their scope of tax obligations, given the country's market economy. As a first step in that direction, we advocate to give up the intention of increasing VAT. You saw what happened in Romania. You saw the social unrest and strikes that occurred when VAT increased from 19% to 24% or 25%, I apologize if I was wrong, and you saw even one amazing thing, from the point of view of the Europropaganda, that people from Romania crossed the border to buy groceries here precisely because of the shock caused by the increase in VAT and the rise in prices. Also, I think that the focus in all tax laws should be above all what Professor Raicevic advocates, reducing the VAT rate to 5% for basic food and municipal needs, and thus making life easier for the people. Also, we think it's gone too far with the excises. It has implications in terms of rising fuel prices, where double standards are applied to the public, so the NIS is accused of guilty, and it's about excise duties. Of course, the profit tax is, in this analysis, totally low and unacceptable because no constructive dividend is covered. What is it, to explain to the citizens who are watching this transmission? These are the people who live in houses owned by the company, drive cars registered to companies, pay by the company card, and then what is absurd is that the biggest taxpayer is a certain flight controller from Voždovac, not Mr. Miskovic. It is totally unacceptable and I think that legislation and government should, in that sense, change and the way they operate, and the laws and everything that goes with it. As regards Article 28 of this Act, it is stated, in addition to a formulation which has not been fully verified in practice, that foreign investments significantly improve the development of parts of the economic branches and therefore write down the actual tax. What do you mean, the greenfield, the brownfield investments, that's not clear. Secondly, it is not true that foreign investments are a magic wand and that this leads to automatic development. I will only list what Professor Miroslav Jovanovic is saying, who teaches at the European University of Geneva, which says that the tax write-offs are so-called. It can describe foreign investors as a kind of social assistance to foreign companies, which, you will admit, is absurd. It's two concepts that shut down. Also, this member of the law denied that foreign direct investments from 1993 to 2008 were seven times bigger in Hungary than in Slovenia, and Slovenia is incomparably more successful, and I believe that the most successful country in Eastern Europe in the last 20 years of transition. That can't be challenged. For a short time, I'm not going to talk about Menciger's foreign investment research, you know that. I mean, it can't be brought into a direct relationship and there's no need to write off every foreign investor, and under such abstract formulations, taxes. As for the Russian loan, I have a little technical remark. If you could, it's a common practice, for these other EIB loans, for example, to give two versions, in English and in Serbian, it could also be applied here, not only because it's the Russian official language of the UN, but because if you look at Article 10 or Article 9, if I'm not mistaken, it's not clear whether it's a VTB bank, which is the second largest bank in Russia, or a bank that is a development bank with which, in this case, you sign a loan. It's a technical remark. In the context of a credit arrangement with Russia, announced during Dmitri Medvedev's visit to Serbia, we have seen double standards applied primarily by the governors, which is surprising, he says after 10 years of borrowing that this is now a large debt, although it is a sum in this concrete 160m-euro loan in public debt of 10.8 billion euros. That's less than 1%. So I can't see at all the principle that he applies when, especially from October to March this year, he criticises further borrowing, it's clear that he criticises the borrowing of the Russian Federation in one indirect way. As for the loan with this Russian bank, you know for sure, you participated in the negotiations, that it was a development bank and that the chairman of the supervisory board of the bank was just the Russian prime minister. We have looked at this 2007 law on this reformed bank and Article 3 speaks about the objectives of the bank with which you conclude a loan agreement. These are Russian investments abroad, aiding Russian exports, and we even looked at the 2008 law, where it is prescribed that the bank will take over debts from other Russian banks. So nowhere is it mentioned that the bank is working with the budget of the Republic of Serbia or any other country. In that sense, Article 2 of this Treaty is absolutely true. It's a friendly act, as much as it can be friendships in economic relations, because you get a loan for a budget from a development bank. It is a very prominent bank and it signed a co-operation agreement with KFV, a German bank for reconstruction and development, with the US export aid bank. In this regard, the March 2010 loan concluded by the Republic of Serbia with the KFV bank, where, if I am not mistaken, interest is 6.17%. Here you said, and here you're right, that the library is about 0.70% and the margin is two and a half percent, so about 3.6% is interest. So, double the interest of this Russian loan than that of a German bank for reconstruction and development. That shows it's a very favourable loan. I'll give you another example. Jean-Stras Khan criticised banks from the European Union that were lending to Greece because the interest is 5%. So that loan we get from the Russians has less interest than the one Greece gets from the European Union. These are facts and it cannot be challenged by any propaganda, by the governor or anyone else in the media. It can be noted that it is not a project-related loan, however, it is not the fault of the Russian side, it is clear. Because you saw what the CIP director said about the $800 million -- that first the Russians should come here, start doing projects, then get documentation, which is scandalous. In this regard, you also saw that the Russian ambassador said in March 2010 that by December, if I am not mistaken, 2009 was the deadline for the delivery of the documentation, however, the Serbian side failed to do so within the time limit and therefore did not realize the 800 million rest of the loan. Finally, I will conclude, it is enough to compare another credit arrangement between the IMF and the Republic of Serbia, which is best viewed in the letter of intent. The Russian side does not require the freezing of budget expenditures, public sector earnings and pensions, the reduction of profit mass, the reduction of pensions in GDP by 2015, and in this sense the credit is incomparably better than the loans of the European Investment Bank, the World Bank, the IMF and all these accompanying institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43124	15 minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that, on the one hand, there is a good will from the Government as a proposing that the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration regulate some unsaid things, and that there may be some injustices to remove. In any case, it can also be seen that the proponent's wish to increase tax discipline in the tax procedure. This is evident from the fact that it extends the deadlines for filing criminal charges from three years of age to five years. Madam Minister, we can't agree on that, because even the Criminal Law itself provides for criminal acts to reduce the limitation period, let alone the violations in the field of tax policy. Also, tax-based tax-based deadlines are also increasing from three years to five years. Also, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration should not be a law that comes out of our legal system. When it comes to the deadlines for infringements, there is a provision for the Law on Violations, and when it comes to the deadlines for the collection of a tax liability, there should be an application of the Law on Liabilities, which regulates the limitation of the collection of claims. The state can't, if it's just her, protect itself from certain tax laws. The biggest problem in the functioning of the tax and economic system is our grey economy. I can say that the state and how it handled all those who want to deal with the gray economy without being caught. We are now going to discuss whether and how anyone has filed a tax application, how many times he has the right to correct it, whether he filed it in the day exactly, or if he was a few days late, whether he paid the tax exactly on time when the law provided for it, or if he was a few days late. And we don't get into the essence of the problem, that the money from the legal flows is slowly transferred to the gray economy, to the gray zone, as some people like to say. So, the law on fiscalisation, or the introduction of fiscal registers, gives the right for many to no longer have the obligation to pay the market, but to have that money, apparently, by law, as they estimate to be the best. There's already the first problem. Later, this is even worsened by the Law on Trade, so here, now the amendments and additions to the Law on Trade, etc., so that a large number of non-cash operators, who work in accordance with the law and respect the laws and state in which they work, do not come across protection from the state other than criminal liability, provided that it is proved, for those who want to deal with the gray economy and fraud. This large number of companies in the blockade, and one part in the blockade of the Republic Tax Administration, for that very reason. The first time his account is blocked, he doesn't want to settle his obligations to the supplier or to the state, but he takes the money and buys the goods. He buys it in black, supplies a fiscal account, and thus carries out further action, while others, counting on the state, suffer. The tax payer expects protection from that state. I'm surprised that in this bill, the Republic Tax Administration and the Tax Administration of the Local Self-Government Unit are not even, at least each in their jurisdiction, even when they have to show the citizen how to fill out the tax application, because the largest number of taxpayers are citizens, and the tax returns they make are mostly part of the tax returns that are related to the property. Are we now going to empower tax officials only to do so, or will tax workers in local self-government units also be able to do so? In this bill alone, they are no longer given the right to do so. Will the tax worker from the Republic Tax Administration say – you know what, this tax is not our obligation, please contact these in the municipality. This one says - we no longer have a legal obligation to act on your request. There is another observation, which is that everyone on the market, and when it comes to the market, the economy, the tax procedure, and also the criminal proceedings and penalties, should be fully equal. However, when you look at the legal provisions governing the punishment of taxpayers, you can see that not everyone is even. First of all, we disagree with a dramatic increase in sentence, at least a minimum sentence. So it's increased in some places up to 20 times. Probably for self-taxation, so now if he's wrong or doesn't make him take more care of it. However, there is a big difference between punishing legal persons and entrepreneurs. If we look at our Republic Statistics Office, we'll see that it's the largest number of legal entities, that they're small legal entities, that they don't have more than seven or eight employees. Now, explain to me what is the fundamental difference, apart from the status difference, regarding the registration of an economic operator, what is the difference between a legal person and an entrepreneur? I can list you at least a dozen entrepreneurs who are financially, and by traffic, means a lot stronger than most small legal entities, but we are therefore resorting to one established principle that it is legal persons who should be more responsible and pay a greater penalty for the same offence. There's no equating in that game. I think it should be regulated in some of the following legal proposals, because it's also one way to slowly but surely create a gray zone. For these very reasons, and most often what I've just said is done by entrepreneurs when it comes to their obligations both to their suppliers and to the state. When it comes to the laws on our credit obligations, I fully understand that with this kind of state administration, with the International Monetary Fund behind us, the state has to take credit. However, in the Law on Public Debt, we have not stated for one single time that the persons responsible in the legal person or in the state authority are legally responsible for the credit arrangements approved by the Assembly and the funds are not withdrawn. This is our big problem and the state has repeatedly borne budget costs to the lender because the loan was not withdrawn or not used. I think that's one serious problem you're going to have to deal with. Otherwise, otherwise, as long as someone who thinks they can do with state money whatever they want, we won't get any better. It should also bear the responsibility of a legal person or of a state body if the State grants a guarantee, and ultimately is unable to repay the loan itself as it was written in the original contract. That's right. It's often called fraud. In order to achieve some right, I agree with someone, even the Serbian Parliament, to get funds, and then the citizens will return it from the Republic's budget, and we will continue to receive not so little wages and we will continue to employ our party friends and friends, relatives and family. When the state gets into the essence of solving the problems of those tiny ones that are actually ruining the whole system, then we can expect Serbia to move forward in the right direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43126	Ten minutes and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, followed by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I would like to comment on a few things about this first draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act, and I will refer briefly to these three agreements that involve the withdrawal of money, namely the new duties of this country. As far as these agreements are concerned, which provide for the avoidance of double taxation, they are indeed not controversial. After all, they can't hurt anyone, it's okay. But this remains united at this point of the law cannot be fully challenged. There are things that can be defined and recognized as your good intentions, the Ministry of Finance on the one hand. On the other hand, we can really identify a lot of elements that seriously disqualify this government, give us the right to disqualify this government and recognize it as one continuity of the verse or something that qualify its work, especially the sector that regulates our borrowing, the withdrawal of credit, where it is all the same and sloppy, without any strategy, without any concept, without any medium and long-term plans and visions where Serbia should be in five or ten years, respectively. I'll try, of course, in the short time I have to paint it. To take the state seriously, among other things, there must be a consistent tax system, tax policy. It seems to me, for the third time in this term or in this term, we are changing this law. These are the second or third amendments to this law and, interestingly, you're announcing a new law. So this, as part of the tax system or tax policy of this country, cannot contribute to the fact that the state has a consistent tax policy, a predictable tax policy, which would be interesting to those who want to recognize it as a partner, on the one hand. On the other hand, you have a situation where coalition partners are asking you a question about the tax structure, and that's the party's representatives who have been most dominantly handling finance in this country for 10 years. Of course, I'm not going to amnestize your responsibilities for possibly a poor tax structure in Serbia, you, your party and the government you participated in or didn't participate in, but these people have mostly managed finance in this country for ten years. What's left of us from the SRS, as an opposition, to ask you as a question when your coalition partners are complaining about the tax structure. Why haven't you handled this for ten years? On the one hand, they find a way around you to resent you wanting to increase VAT. On the other hand, you, as the most responsible for tax policy and tax structure in this country, are proposing an increase in VAT to ease your soul, and now the question is how much space is given for a serious story, because everything is burdened by your coalition relations and misunderstanding within the ruling majority. Here's to going back specifically and directly to this law that's within this united set, which is the Tax Procedure Act. First I'm going to say a few things that are acceptable or possibly not controversial or at least disputed about this. What's controversial for the SRS is I'm going to try to ask you in my discussion, to ask you to answer that question, and it seems to me that no one has asked any questions in this debate today. First of all, as far as Article 6 is concerned, we are really interested in why this member who defines the rights of taxpayers erases this tax office and local self-government units, so we don't move on. The first indent states that the taxpayer under this law has the right to receive free information from the Tax Administration and the Tax Department of the Local Self-Government Unit on the tax rules resulting from his tax liability, if he is ignorant and basic legal aid, etc. Which is why we're erasing the local self-government tax department here. If nothing else, it has in no way burdened or questioned the application of this law. After all, in the last changes and additions before this, we have installed them into this law. Now it's wiped out. This provision that you are removing cannot in any way question the application of this law. It can only make it easier. As Minister, you should know well how much trouble there was in establishing a tax administration department in local self-government units. I believe there are more today. There are rare municipalities in Serbia that have done the job properly, quickly recognising the importance of setting up this tax department, because they are dealing with the collection of local self-government revenues. You know, if someone understood that in an adequate way, then they would really show awareness of the need for decentralisation in Serbia. In Serbia, in recent years, when it comes to this, we have listened not so much, but people who have been at the local level in services, officials, know how many dissonant tones were on the relation of the tax administration and newly established departments of the tax administration of the local self-government unit. So they accused each other, they gave them unscheduled documentation, they were irresponsible, they weren't incompetent, they weren't put up with the job, and that's how it worked, and the state suffered, they suffered mainly local self-government, because they couldn't through effective tax collection to secure their revenue side of the budget. The state went through this one galatias at a local level talking about decentralisation and now some rights that, say, taxpayers had and were able to achieve in tax units in local self-government are now being deleted through this law. After all, you said earlier – now there will be rights in local self-government, in tax departments, that they will be able to ask the tax administration for everything they need. That's what you just said. Why, if the taxpayers and the taxes paid by local self-government were right and were able to do so directly in the local self-government unit of the IRS? That's not clear to us, why did you suggest that you delete yourself from this law? What's good is Article 12, that's what everyone's been talking about, where the order for the allocation of that amount will change. It's good even in Article 13, we can say hello in part, but I'm going to say what's going on here for the SRS. Dispute is the discretionary rights that are predicted here for the minister, don't mind, for the people you as minister or some other minister tomorrow will be able to powers over these tax exemptions, or, worse still, what comes down to mayors and presidents of municipalities. Imagine what's going to happen here? That's what it says here, in the changes and additions you're predicting, that the minister and the person he's in power, based on a written proposal from the manager of the tax administration's organization unit, according to the main place of business. So, the delay in paying the tax debt is defined by you or by the person you empower, or the mayor, the president of the municipality and the person he has authorized. Do you know what's going to happen here? Do you know how many examples of practices that really question, that is, raise doubts about such rights that are entrusted to people who will be able to decide this? I personally know, and if I am in the process of debate in particular, I will bring you documentation to see how the tax administration or how the state authorities selectively, or how they arbitraryly interpret how some taxpayers, on the one hand, are damaged by the justice of God, and with all the papers they have, because of the irresponsibility or arbitrary interpretation of the rules, while on the other hand, I will be free to say, the bastards who steal both the system and the state, not only to be brought to justice, but rather to sue the state to pay for the damage they allegedly suffered from spiritual pain, etc. These are the weaknesses of the tax administration that, unfortunately, are present, and these may be things that you need to deal with even more seriously and deeply. Now through one positive intention, which can be recognised here, you give rights to individual representatives of the state at high or lower at local level to determine who will, who, or who cannot be privileged, freed, or shifted taxes for those people, or for those taxpayers. It's something that can be opened and asked as a question. For the sake of time, I will end up, when it comes to this law, with what is most important to us. Mrs Dragutinovic, there is no property of local self-government, there is no real estate in the property of local self-government. I do not dispute the intention that you wanted to do here and make, and to protect local self-governments from those who are unconscious about the reconciliation of tax obligations, but you cannot give authority to units, or tax departments within units of local self-government to make solutions that will move the immovableity into the unit of local self-government. When such an attempt came a few days ago here from the National Bank of Serbia, that the property used by the NBS law became the new property of the National Bank, we told Mr Jelasic – Mr Jelasic, this is a scandal. Then Mr. Jelasic said -- it's not a scandal, this is what we're going to wipe out. Now you're doing the same thing. I'm not saying this is malicious, this is either someone out of ignorance or with intent done, but local self-government has no real estate in its property. On the one hand, in 1995, it was regulated, and it was regulated by a part of your current coalition by the fact that the property of the local self-government has been translated into property of the Republic of Serbia, and for the sake of 2000, your party has been dominant or those who make up this assembly majority have done nothing to change it, so that local self-government has its property, so that the province has its property, that it has its own property, that you really show the need and commitment to decentralisation, to strengthen local self-government in order for the state to rise forward. No one's thought about it, and you're getting into trouble today, like the NBS, and so are you who have good intentions. This is a good idea, but it's unsustainable the way you predicted it. The Serbian Radical Party in this context has also proposed some amendments that you should consider making this meaningful and applicable. Until legislation has been regulated, which has not been proposed to this assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but by one party belonging to the ruling majority and never because of the fact that it is so, although in the ruling majority it will not come to the agenda, at least until the Government has assessed it properly, you cannot treat immovable property owned by local self-government and you must seriously consider it because it is not in accordance with the laws that, as you like to say, roof or foundation, which regulate the property of the Republic of Serbia, or property owned by the Republic of Serbia or how it goes. You'll look at it and see how. I don't want to talk about this law anymore. I'm just going to comment on a few more things about these loans that you're about to withdraw. First of all, the loan presented by Mr. Zarko Obradovic. It is nice that you will withdraw 50m euros to build schools around Serbia, but as it says here you are obliged from the republican budget to provide 50m euros because the project totals 100m euros. Our question is, does Serbia have that money at this point? It's on one side. On the other hand, what really leaves the picture unserious is that we're going to give the green light here to pull the money. You'll withdraw the money, and then you'll build groups, programs, projects to spend that money. At least that's how I understood you at the beginning of this story. That's not good because you listened to Mr. Mirovic just now. This is where we boast and come to a second loan. Here's 200 million. Some of the best conditions we've ever received from the Russian bank or the Russian state are quite whatever, but we're not talking about $800 million waiting here because of the fact that you as a government were unable to offer projects and this is not the only case. How many approved funds through the congregation procedure do you stand undrawn from a variety of financial institutions because of the fact that you do not have project documentation? That's what the picture of this country and this government, unfortunately, leaves in one very wrong way and color. What is it that, in my opinion, is controversial here? Now look at this. Let's say, when the Russian loan is here, it starts for two years. When's the first war to retreat? March 15th. We're in July. How's two years? Again, ineffectiveness, irresponsibility, inability for the government to deal with the most serious and essential things. We're dealing with 200 million to patch up budget holes. Where are those money going to go? Which one of us knows that? What's to be paid for? What agencies? Which directorates? What commission? What kind of waste will be covered with $200 million of a new debt on each of us sitting in this room? Not just you who make the ruling majority. Leave it and what a grace period it is and how low the interest rates are, etc. Let the interest be greater, but let us spend money on what will really raise this country to its feet. If not, let us feel it, let our children feel it. What are we paying for this $200 million? Do you agree with me? What are you paying for? You don't know what you're gonna pay for? Who knows? We can only guess. One more thing I'd just like to comment on over time. It's good to get the national infrastructure of geospace data, but I have to use this for one thing that's written here, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. We said the same thing a few days ago in this room. It was the Law on Construction Industry, and the law stipulates that 70% of equipment and services, i.e. equipment and materials, are from Serbia. We asked it to be 100%. Now look, the French give you 11 million and 185 thousand euros, financing purchases in France's French goods and services needed to realise the project. They give you money, you pay back money, you pay interest as much as it takes, but you simply have to take all theirs, so they're French, so it's French, so it's French, so it's domestic, but from the French side, it's business. You should learn from them. We're changing the law in two years three times. Look at the numbers and numbers. You pay off 40 years, it starts 20 years. We can't define the law that will be predictable in the next two or three years. It was one parallel to taking pictures of our situation in society and in the country with, say, a country like France. For the SRS, I repeat, a serious discussion will be held in particular. I hope you will understand what I said and I believe that there are things that can be accepted as well-intentioned and correct, but because of the vast majority of the things that my colleague Mirovic and I have stated, I do not think we will be able to support these borrowings and projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43128	Eighteen minutes have been used by the MP's group. The word is a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, and after that, the MP of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43129	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here at the emergency session was submitted for the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The basic reason for this is the need to comply with the Law on Infringements and the Law on the Regulation of Courts. There are still many reasons, but what prevails in the proposal's intention is to encourage financial discipline. There are some provisions in this proposal that will likely benefit the taxpayers, and Mrs Dragutinovic explained this in her opening statement, and the speakers before me said that in the future, more specifically as of 1 January 2011, it would be a different order for the distribution of the amount of taxpayers who are late for the reconciliation of obligations. I have consulted employees in the local tax administration and their experiences are negative with the current order, according to which interest obligations are first met, and then the underlying debt, because the bonds do not have the right information about their total debt, and the first thing that settles interest remains a larger amount of debt, on which interest is again charged. The proposed order will, according to local tax administration employees, be more favourable for taxpayers. It is also intended to allow for a longer period in which the tax debt will be postponed to undertakings in the process of reorganisation, which should lead to the relief of their operating conditions. A lower interest is also mentioned, which will be calculated at the time of the delay in the reconciliation of the established tax. In order to increase tax collection, an identical limitation period of five years has been defined and then, as an advantage for the debtors, it is stated that, if the taxpayer reports a breach which he has committed and pays the debt with the prescribed interest before the tax control and the application to initiate the infringement procedure is initiated, no proceedings will be initiated against the taxpayer or penalties will be imposed. Let's go back to what is the main intention of the promoter, which is to encourage financial discipline. Namely, a safeguard measure of banning certain activities against those bonds that make a certain type of the same tax offence within two years of the day of the sentence of the same offence and that is not disputed that those who knowingly commit tax offences must be punished and that they must all be equal, both by right and by obligation. However, what cannot be acceptable in any case is the intended fines. Of course, the excuse will be that they are provided for by the Law of Infractions. When we look at the amount of fines that are now scheduled, we'll see that they are really too high in relation to those currently in force. Some sentences are more than four, five, ten times, while some are more than 20 times compared to the present. These excessive penalties are in no way in line with the current economic situation in Serbia. When the amounts of these penalties were determined, it had to be taken into account that the business of most businesses in Serbia is not easy at all. We have already mentioned the company in the process of reorganisation and the efforts to collect tax dues from them, and I think it is important to point out that there is a huge number of blocking companies in Serbia. We heard in the opening address of Ms. Minister that after these changes, plans are being made to pass a new tax procedure and tax administration. Speaking of passing new laws, what the MPs of the SRS are interested in is – why is there still no proposal for a law on financial responsibility in front of MPs? The issue is imposed in itself, as we know that the Serbian government in the December 2009 letter of intent has pledged to adopt a draft fiscal responsibility law and deliver it to the Assembly by the end of April 2010. Here, they passed April, May, June, passing and July, the end and this extraordinary session, and there is still no bill mentioned. There have been some misunderstandings about this law. We realized that it has not yet been defined whether it will be a new law or change the current Budgetary System Act, and then it would be called the Budgetary System and Fiscal Responsibility Act, then whether it will be introduced fiscally larger, with the role of assessing whether the government is running a policy according to fiscal rules or perhaps the DRI will be strengthened by new functions. Besides these things, probably a much bigger problem would be the law's application. It will be necessary to reduce the participation of public revenues in GDP. Over the next five years, public expenditure should be reduced by 0.75% or 0.85% annually. That's the information that's been made public on two occasions. Then, the annual borrowing will not exceed 2.5%, and the public debt will not be more than 40% of GDP. The data on the higher debt were not exactly consistent, as there was talk of him being 31 – 32% of GDP. However, public information has emerged that the public debt has reached 36%, as previously hidden debts appear in crises, such as state guarantees and local debts. However, the IMF's assessment is that Serbia's public debt will increase by 16% of GDP in implementing the planned restitution process. This inevitable burden will be added either to official or unofficial public debt and will then amount to 48-52% of GDP. Although the law has not yet been passed, it can be assumed that it will exceed the public debt limit. Is this perhaps one of the reasons for delaying the adoption of this law, or is the reason perhaps that it is increasingly said about early elections, which could be held in 2011, so it will be necessary to borrow from domestic and foreign creditors, as this could be a way to finance campaigns in power. There is a well-known practice so far, where the campaign builds a lot of money from all taxpayers, and thus the parties in power get votes in the elections. Otherwise, concerns are that Serbia's overall external debt is growing, although we could never agree with the minister on that. The amount of external debt at the end of 2008 was 21.8 billion, at the end of 2009, 22.7 billion euros, at the end of February 2010, 22.9 and at the end of March 23.2 billion euros, at the end of April 23.4.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43130	Eight minutes and 25 seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, followed by the MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a joint principled and uniform review of the proposal for a tax procedure and tax administration, as well as the confirmation of two agreements and four contracts from different areas. My colleagues who spoke before me talked about many of these things, and here I will remain in one law, namely the proposal for a law confirming a financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank relating to the modernisation of schools. Of course, before that, there's only one or two sentences I want to say about these other laws. I want to say about these double taxation contracts between the state of Serbia and some other countries, I think it's Austria, Azerbaijan and Pakistan. The characteristics of these contracts are as follows: it turns out that the state of Serbia is more concerned with some foreign citizens than with its citizens, because some of our citizens are practically subject to double taxation. What's this about? Here, I'm just gonna do one more sentence, and then I'm gonna go back to what I wanted to do, run the main discussion. Namely, some economic operators, some legal entities, and people have complained to me, have problems with VAT returns, of course it refers to those who have the right to return VAT. They're very hard to achieve their intention to recover VAT, and if they are, let's say, persistent and boring to exercise their right, then they're sent a financial inspection and they're simply scared. But let's go back to this contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank concerning, as I said, the modernisation of schools. I also have to say that it's a good thing that this contract is on the agenda of this session, because we all know what our situation is in school and every investment, even if it's what it was, it's good for our school. I have to say, it's a good thing this contract was found very soon on the agenda after his signing. If I'm not mistaken, he was signed on June 8th of this year and here he is a month later in front of the National Assembly. This is especially because if we know many similar contracts in some other areas are waiting for a few years for ratification of this Parliament and when this ratification occurs, it often happens that they are anachrons, that they are outdated and that they are practically lost meaning of signing these agreements. But to not seem to praise this thing now, there are some things that I don't like about this agreement and the first thing that falls into my eyes when I look at the proposal of this contract or agreement is the terminology that an English translator used here in Serbian. Namely, the contract here mentions the term "pre-university education". For all I know, there is also Minister Zarko Obradovic, the educational system of the Republic of Serbia does not know this terminology, and also in informal communication, means the term "pre-university education" is very rarely used. This team before these things were defined long ago by some laws, and we had recently discussed in this House the Law on Preschool Education and Education and about a year ago we had a discussion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, and these two laws define this matter which, in some senses here, should represent this "pre-university education". Indeed, once again, if I'm not mistaken, there was no use in these laws of "pre-university education". Of course, I don't want to be maligned, it's clear to all of us what this is about, but I mean, if we literally interpret this term, then we could come to the point and purpose of all these educations, both pre-school and secondary education, just to somehow get to university education, and that means that it's some kind of interphase, some step that just serves to get there, to get in, to qualify for university education. And of course, in practice, we know that it is not, even on the contrary, the largest number of Serbian citizens has primary and secondary education, while the smallest population, between 5% and 7%, according to statistics, has this university education. Furthermore, there are some more expressions here, let's say, like "physical infrastructure" that may also not be appropriate, but let's go for something else. The modernisation project, it is said, should cover the construction of new and expansion of existing schools, sports, sports facilities, furniture, equipment, strategic development of the education system, etc. Of course, there's nothing really to object to all of this, but let's see how it's gonna be done. This is where Mr. Secretary spoke of three components. The first component refers to the expansion of those schools that do not satisfy capacity under these circumstances. So it's done in three shifts and to avoid that situation from working in three shifts. However, if we look at the list of these schools, we see that there are three schools in Novi Sad, three schools in Belgrade, two schools in Novi Pazar and one school in Lapovo, Jagodina, Aleksinac and Nis. I wonder what's wrong with this other component now? This first component, if I'm not mistaken, its realization begins immediately. The second component of this contract starts in autumn, and the third component starts at the end of the year. That's what you said, Mr. Minister. Which is why you did not predict here or at least announce to the MPs who are the schools, from which the regions of Serbia are those schools that would fall under this second component. So if we're looking at the geographical map of the schools I mentioned here, we see that Nis is the end point where this job ends. Unfortunately, Nis is not a city and is not Serbia's ultimate border. Serbia does not end in the town of Nis, but if we look south towards Macedonia's border, there are still 150km. From Nis, if we look east towards Bulgaria's border, there are still about 100km to Bulgaria's border. If we're looking west to the administrative line with KIM there's also about 100 kilometers, I'm not talking about the region of Timočka and Negotinska krajina. Don't get me wrong, I understand these schools that are working on three shifts and that might be a priority. But that's why it took one and the other, and maybe even the third component that goes later, to list the schools where the investment is going to be done. Because we can't go through some schools, some schools give everything, introduce everything, and some schools work by method and teaching means from the 19th century. As an educational worker, I look forward to every investment in education, but I think these remarks I've made here should be kept in mind. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43132	Ten minutes have been used by the MP's group. The word has been given by MP Vladan Jeremic, and he is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, Mr. Obradovic, when I think about it a little bit better, it is not by any chance a set of these seven laws that we are discussing tonight. On credit borrowing, on the one hand, the state has been quite told and argued, so I would like to draw your attention and attention to the public, above all, to these laws, more specifically to amend and supplement laws in the field of tax policy, for which one of the representatives of the ruling coalition has well noticed that they are good, but that new laws are needed. It is precisely that finding that it is actually based on what is the most important issue at the very beginning for you, Mrs Dragutinović, which is: what happens to the comprehensive tax reform in Serbia and whether we will perhaps wait for this job by 2012, when the avalanche in terms of payments so far is due. I am sure we will agree that the important segment of the overall reforms of Serbia's economic system is precisely this comprehensive reform of the tax system and what is necessary to stress is that some real economic and social effects of applying a particular model of taxation can differ significantly from those forecasts that can provide an economic theory. It is therefore very important that, prior to the decision to choose a certain form of taxation in Serbia, the benefits and disadvantages of each of them are detailed, taking into account not only the theoretically expected implications of applying a certain tax form, but also the practical experience of the countries in which the tax form has been applied so far. Of course, when it comes to Serbia, it is important to respect the characteristics of Serbia's economy, its development ambition, the performance of the tax administration and the level of that tax morality. So, what we are all witnessing is that this designing some new model of Serbia's economic growth is yet to come, but it is evident that there will be an increase in exports and growth of the sector of these exchangeable goods, and the assumption of this is certainly an improvement in the international competitiveness of Serbia's economy, and precisely with regard to the reform of the tax system, it could make a significant contribution to the realisation of the objectives of the new economic growth strategy in Serbia. The existing tax system in Serbia is in line with the so far applied concept of economic growth. For example, consumption taxes, above all VAT and excise duties on cigarettes, are on average lower in Serbia than in EU countries, while taxes on production factors, fiscal taxes paid on employee earnings, are higher. This makes the state more expensive through its tax policy, employment, employment and production, and relatively cheaper consumption. The lack of such access has become particularly expressed in light of the fact that much of the consumption stems from imports, which means that the increase in consumption does not imply and create more significant added values in Serbia. If this assumption is based on the possibility of continuing the existing model of behaviour, which implies more consumption than production, which was financed by significant inflows from abroad, based on credit or foreign direct investment, but there is now a very limited option, then the conclusion is that the new tax strategy should promote the change in current behaviour. It therefore appears that Serbia's new tax policy should be aimed at encouraging exports and employment through the reduction of fiscal taxes paid to employ labour, with the destimulation of import consumption and by increasing consumption taxes. The tax reform we look forward to should include significant changes in the property taxation system through the reduction of its regression now in place. The essence of such reforms, according to the SRS, would be precisely a restriction on the reduction of the tax base based on depreciation from the current 70% to about 30% to 40% and replacing such a regressive system of fixed tax credits. This would end this current practice, which has already been said tonight, that a member of a wealthy person's family is worth more in terms of these reliefs brought by a real estate owner than a family member who is poorer. Of course, tax reform should include further adjustment of the company's tax system through an increase in its allocative neutrality and simplicity, and fundamentally these changes should be the replacement of an existing complex system of tax incentives by a single investment tax credit regime and a more stringent normisation of the rules for taxing profit repatriation through a hidden dividend. Such a complex of tax reforms would only create conditions for investment, employment and exports to make import and consumption more expensive, thus putting Serbia's tax policy in full position to promote long-term sustainable economic growth. One of the basic things that should be done or that right and right move would certainly be state reform, and that need is also so great, because since 2000 it has remained intact by change. And not only that, but it's known to everyone that party employment has put her in a position where she is now at both the central and the local level. Another thing, state spending in Serbia is one of the highest in the world. The more spent in the private sector, the less private, the more inefficient consumption is and the greater the damage to income and well-being. Of course, high spending in the state sector undermines economic growth and price stability and absolutely all the reasons say that Serbia should reduce rather than increase state spending. We believe it is important to point out that instead of considering increasing existing or introducing new ones, it is necessary to consider the efficiency of the collection of existing taxes. It is defeating the fact that about 30% of the economy is making that gray sector. Clearly, if that's the case, there's room for a better VAT charge. There is also a problem that customs charges are low. Now all of this for the background, as a key problem, has obviously a fact that some politically powerful structures have interest in this state, above all that corruption in tax and customs collection occurs on a large scale and also what might have to be solved by the amendment and supplementation of the law that we are discussing, so the fact that the tax administration was quite ineffective. Some enormous increase in collection is unrealistic, but if there was a possibility of a certain increase it was real and if there were an increase, or an improvement in tax collection, then there would certainly be a possibility of a certain tax reduction, which would certainly further affect better payment. There is a dilemma about whether taxes are low or high in Serbia. If taxes were low, state spending would probably also be low, perhaps 30% of GDP, but it is clear that this is significantly above this percentage. The problem is that in Serbia there are many taxes and that the rates by rule are high, except for a few taxes, primarily on corporate profits, individual income taxes, etc. So what I would like to point out at this very moment is that when it comes to the government, in particular, to your ministry that should have a crucial impact on what is happening in this sense, it is clear that there are economic health moves and those that certainly do not fall into that area. What we were talking about, above all, about state reform, reducing state consumption, more efficient tax collection, certainly belongs to that group that could lead to what I was talking about at the very beginning, which is to a economically sustainable development of the country. While on this other side, in the SRS' view, it is, in fact, an increase in existing taxes, the introduction of new, new borrowings of the country, because it can certainly only mean bigger taxes, or more taxes in the future. Now whether you as a minister or a government as a whole have the strength for these, in our opinion, the right moves or these others, will likely show time. If we can't control the costs ourselves, it'll spontaneously do a drop in the course of dinars, inflation, and unfortunately, we're witnesses, especially in the last two months.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43134	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Education Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43135	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I really wouldn't keep my fellow MPs for long, but since I won't be in a piece dedicated to amendments to the draft of these laws that are being discussed today because there are no amendments to this law, I still have a duty to say a few words about this loan law, since both counterpart Nikola Savic and counterpart Dragan Stevanovic have asked questions. I allow myself that I may not have explained well enough at first, but it seems to me that my colleague Stevanović did not fully include the content of what I was saying, with his colleague Savic mentioning several schools himself and stating the reasons why the project has some three components and what the essence of the first project is. What MPs need to know, this is another loan that we conclude as an education system with the European Investment Bank. The first was in 2005, a colleague, Diana Dragutinovic, said. Thanks to this 2005 loan, we managed to finish last year, for the first time in a long, long time, some schools and then we made nine completely new and four new schools, so 13 of us received new schools in different parts of Serbia. This loan and therefore we have been publicly promoted at the level of all of Southeast Europe as the only country that has completed its education project completely, and thanks to that, to be honest, we have received this project very quickly. This project is not, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right. You're right. You're right. You're right. You're right. So, very taxingly, I'll even give some concrete examples to see if it's not some sort of speculation or something that doesn't know what the content is. Very accurate and taxing we listed for these 12 schools as the first component of what was contained. For the rest, we couldn't, for the simple reason that there is absolute agreement in the European Investment Bank and in our country that we have to make criteria in the meantime. This is where we knew what our goal was. For the first component, we aim to lift the third shift in a number of schools and you are right, these are the Technical School in Lapovo, Technical School in Jagodina, OS "Brothership" in Novi Pazar, OS "Rift Burdžević Trso" in Novi Pazar, OS "Alexa Shantić" in Belgrade, Kaluderica, OS "Radoje Domanović" Borča, Belgrade, OS "Vojvod Stepe" Belgrade, Kumodraž, "Ljupce Nikolic" Aleksinac, "Svetozar Marković" Novi Sad, "Kosta Trifković" Novi Sad, "Dusan Radović" Novi Sad and "Branko Bjegović". Here in this document that I own here I have very detailedly written everything that follows us to the realization of the project for these 12 schools. It is also contained what is proposed solution, whether the construction of a new facility or reconstruction, equipment, demolition and construction of a new facility, upgrade and then, of course, very precisely determined what the costs of the loan are, which are our assets and the amount of these funds in the structure of these costs, what is the timetable when the intention is to start this, when the solution to the problem of what it means. For example, for this school in Lap's existing school building, the existing school building was torn down, otherwise, it's a fragrant situation that we found, that one school, based on the word of the mouth, was destroyed in Lap's. It is said: "Only you bring down the school, no problem, there will be money, and then when the school is destroyed, it is said: "The money is gone, you are able to manage and do what you will." The case works, just to see what the situation is like in Serbia. The existing school building has been torn down, it is necessary to build a new one and provides for work descriptions, construction works and public procurement. Why am I saying this? It's about these 12 schools that cancel the third shift. When we make criteria together with the European Investment Bank, and we will do so from the ratification period, we expect, by November, on the basis of these criteria, to be realised so-called. The third component of these 24m euros and then the map of developed businesses will expand at the level of Serbia as a whole. Somewhere earlier, speaking of the situation in the area, if I may say, educational infrastructure mentioned that we have a situation that we have about 500 schools older than 95 years. Now you can think about the situation throughout Serbia. We have an education system that lasts a long time, but it hasn't been invested in it for long. Our idea is to do part of the business, of course, through this project, part of the business through the budget, what we have, I have to say that it is very, very modest of this loan, so this credit is very valuable, and part of it through the NIP, and then at the end of the term of 2012 we really show one map of what was done in education at all levels, including not only pre-school, primary, secondary, but also student and higher education. That's our idea. The question of why we didn't now predict the rest, we couldn't because it was one joint agreement, to start realising this project as soon as possible. It is a wonder for them that we are not full 45 days after signing this contract, because it is practical in other countries to ratify it from six months to three years, believe it or not. For them, it is a miracle, and for us a good thing, which is the subject of today's legislation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we will begin with its realization immediately after ratification. The funds provided for these 12 schools will begin to be withdrawn. Look, some of these schools are about equipment, equipment procurement, some of these are about reconstruction. It's somewhere to build a whole new school. You will understand that the construction of all this takes a different period of time, so that there are no words from fellow Stevanovic that we do not know what we want. For the first component, we are absolutely ready because it was one joint agreement to start spending the funds as soon as possible. Component two, related to the information system, the elements of the strategy, is also something we're doing right now. objectively, it's a small amount of money compared to all of this. Of course, it's not going to be such a sum, but, let's say, the example is, when it comes to the information system, we're going to announce a public tender and we're going to see what offer is best. I want to tell you that all of this we are doing, since it is a terriblely large amount of money for our terms, and it will be clear, publicly, available to all and all will be able to learn from "a" to "s" how the project is implemented, starting from the day of ratification of this law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the beginning of the realization. That third part, so-called. Component three, we're just gonna talk about it. Our idea, of course, with the money we have, to make as much effect as possible, to make efficiency as much as possible, and of course we'll take into account different factors – 1,820 schools, plus a few hundred outages, is over 2,500 objects, and there really should be criteria for some even territorial representation to be realized through this project. This isn't the last one. We were just today having a conversation with the Council of Europe, with their bank, also trying to make one contract, one loan that might be, if we had all agreed, given that the Bank of the Council of Europe has this social dimension, that this would be at the end of the year the subject of discussion between our Ministry of Finance, us and them, and the subject of discussion of the National Assembly next January, and then ratification. I'm talking about this because for us in education, this is very important, because we don't have our money. Dear colleagues, MPs, you know that we spend a seventh of our budgets, but 95% of that amount goes towards individual incomes and contributions to personal incomes, etc., remains very little for investment when this government begins its mandate. The demand from different levels was about 60 billion dinars. We, together with the NIP, had about a billion and 200 dinars for education purposes, which was about 2%. Last year, the figure was halved due to the financial situation and simply a lack of money inflow in the budget. That's why this project is extremely important to us. When it comes to these 13 schools, we were just handling the principle of abolishing the third shift. Nothing else mattered. Of course, we used certain objects that were built to display the property of that facility as our participation, so that we could satisfy this essential side, to get a loan, where we participate with 50%. So it was convenient for us to present some schools, given that their property is several million euros, as a participation of the Republic of Serbia in the security of financial work, since it is 50 to 50. I must tell you, you understand that dimension. Otherwise, the loan is very favourable. My colleague Diana spoke at the beginning of the financial or conditional technical dimension of this contract, but, as far as I heard her, for the first five years there was no payment, and then she went. So these are the means where they will absolutely have a school, or educational system of their profits. I must tell you that I look forward to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be in a position to improve the state of schools in the Republic of Serbia through this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-19-0.u43136	I'm concluding a joint principle and uniform search. This concludes our day of work. The session continues tomorrow, July 20th, at 10.00 p.m., with a single search on the 12th and 13th agenda – a proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and a proposal for the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia, with the plan being to deal with the 14th item of the agenda tomorrow, i.e. the proposal for candidates for the selection of members of the High Council of the judiciary from the law professors' order. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than a third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs, the course of the session takes place on the basis of Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure, under which the presidents of parliamentary groups or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups may request notice and explanation whether any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Željko Tomic. Here you go.
