ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45523	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are some 86 MPs in the hall and that there are rules of procedure for the work of the session. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs, the session of the National Assembly takes place on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that an extremely President, or authorised representative of the parliamentary group, is entitled to act 1, to request the notices and explanations referred to in Article 1st, paragraph 1, may take place at a session of the National Assembly orally, in one address up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament attending the sitting, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has been asking the same question in the National Assembly for a long time, I will do it this time. The question is for the government of the Republic of Serbia. With the minister sitting here in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, rather than taking advantage of the opportunity to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia what will he do for the protection of one of the most fundamental human rights, the right to the life of Dr Vojislav Seselj, who has been in the detention unit of the UN tribunal since 2003 and who in the last two months has been drastically deteriorated health conditions, since he has continued high blood pressure, tachycardia and arrhythmia? The Serbian Radical Party has been calling for competent state authorities for nearly two months and informs the local and world public that in the heads of individual powers in The Hague tribunal and those behind The Hague tribunal, ideas could be created that in the case of Vojislav Seselj, the same scenario as in the case of Slobodan Milosevic could be repeated, which is that in some way they kill the one against whom they have failed to prove anything and who they have held in custody for almost eight years. The SRS appeal is absolutely based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, it's based on Article 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia protects the interests of its citizens abroad, is based on Article 32. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees, among other things, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, to be tried within a reasonable period. I would like to remind you, Mr Ugljanin, that Vojislav Seselj is in the detention unit of The Hague tribunal since February 2003, that in February 2011 it will be full of eight years as Vojislav Seselj is in custody and that the trial is not over. If that were happening in an English, American, French or German court, that court would probably be dismissed. It is incomprehensible for the state to care about the health situation of Vojislav Seselj. We are interpreting this concern by the fact that you in Vojislav Seselj obviously do not see a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, but rather the president of the SRS. We ask you to see a man in him, to see a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, just as you see all other citizens, and to take all the measures that are in the power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent resolution ministries to rise up in defense of the right to the life of Vojislav Seselj. I must say that the Serbian Radical Party was concerned by Mrs Nada Kolundzija's statement given in the National Assembly a few days ago, which comes down to the following: Vojislav Seselj went voluntarily to The Hague tribunal, no one forced him, and what we can do now, if we die there, we did not force him, it is his struggle, as far as we are concerned with the position of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. The question now arises, what kind of message, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, is that you send the remaining two Hague indictees to General Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic – surrender voluntarily, and what will happen to your lives, whether you will be proven guilty, whether you will be threatened by the health situation in The Hague tribunal, what we care about. We have often had the opportunity to hear from the representatives of the authorities, so it was in the case of Vojislav Seselj, so it is in the case of the remaining two Hague indictees, that they should prove their innocence in The Hague. You've heard of that formulation, Mr. Ugljanin. All over the world, the prosecution proves guilty, only in the case of the UN tribunal that the defendant has to prove he's innocent. The difficult task was carried out by Vojislav Seselj, proved he was innocent, completely broke the prosecution's concept and both chief UN tribunal prosecutor Carla del Ponte, here and now Serge Brammertz, suffered total indignation, as in almost eight years they failed to prove any point of the indictment. Then someone thought – since we failed to prove the guilt of Vojislav Seselj, let's make his health worse, let's repeat the scenario as in the case of Slobodan Milosevic and get ourselves out of the process in the most elegant way possible. Please, Mr. Ugljanin, you and the government, don't let another murder take place by citizens of the Republic of Serbia in The Hague tribunal. (President: five minutes. I'm done. You may not be able to influence when the proceedings against Vojislav Seselj will be concluded, but also how you can take all the measures that are in your jurisdiction to protect life and how the health of the president of the SRS is compromised.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45525	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45526	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, my question will be for Mr. Obradovic's Minister of Education. We are already waiting for his response to tightening the accreditation of the International University of Novi Pazar, although the better address would be Mr. Ugljanin, but we will still wait for the answer of the Minister of Education. My question concerns good students. Good students announce tomorrow's protest of several colleges in Belgrade. The protest is because of what we told you when we passed the amendments to the Higher Education Act, I think it was in June. This law is cosmetic, it does not solve the essence of what a law must solve, such as the law. compulsory completion, i.e. pre-test work and its proportionality in relation to the oral exam. These pre-examination obligations are, in principle, essential or should be the essence of these changes. It's not regulated. You remember we told you that we needed to reduce the number of deadlines to allow students to see teachers more often, to get better insight into students' skills, to make it easier for students to master the material from conversations with teachers, that teachers and students have more time for each other. We told you, among other things, that you had to get rid of funding. And this tomorrow is the result of simply that article 88, so rubber as it's made, it doesn't solve it. What's going on? Again, some good students, who may not have passed one or two exams, have 48 points, cannot be sure they won't have to pay their tuition. There's even a college where students who gave all the exams have 60 points, I can't be sure they'll be on the budget. Last year you had some hybrid co-financing solution, where some students didn't pay tuition, didn't have a right to a home, paid for the cafeteria, paid for the exams, etc. This must be resolved, because education reform, as well as health reform, is something that is the essence of overall reforms in this society, and unfortunately nothing is happening in these areas. That's our party attitude. The other day, health minister Mr. Milosavljevic admitted that he was wrong two years ago, so he returned the right to the doctors for additional work. Here we ask the Minister of Education to say when he will change the law, that all students at the beginning of the year would be clear criteria and that their efforts, if they give regular exams, would be paid, so that they would not pay fees, or be on the budget. Because, really, this reranking and what's going on absolutely destimulates the students. I'm talking about students who learn and give exams on a regular basis. Clear criteria must be established at the beginning of the year, that the student knows that if he learns and passes the exams will be on the budget, i.e. That he wouldn't pay his tuition. The law is so unspeakable. Since you, as I say, have become a practice of adopting amendments to the law a few months after the law was passed... So, since it's already a practice, let's figure out that it doesn't happen every year before school year what's going to happen tomorrow. By law, even since 2012, students with 60 points, those who have absolutely cleaned the year, will not be sure they will be on the budget. So that we don't have these scenes every year that we're going to have tomorrow, let's work it out sometime. Good students have the right to be on the budget. Those who are bad, let them pay, but to know a clear criterion, not that it depends on money. After all, both the Youth and Sports Ministry could be involved in this, not just young people from the Liberal Democratic Party. This ministry is not just about fans, hooligans and sports, it's about all young people. Certainly, it is not enough to take or steal the LDP slogan "Young are the law", and nothing is done to resolve this issue by students. We need to talk urgently, to clarify the criteria, to make it clear to everyone, and that this isn't happening tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45527	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45528	The Honorable chairman, these days, a survey by Group 484, which says that 24% of young people are interested in leaving this country; of which, 33% of respondents, those who have the highest education, also expressed a desire to leave this country permanently or for a long time. The reasons for leaving the country are cited mainly as a poor economic situation and an unregulated social system. According to also published surveys, the country has been estimated to have left more than 30,000 people over the past two years, and nearly 10,000 of those with the highest education. Two years ago, they waved promises of a better life, a higher standard, 200,000 new jobs, higher wages, higher pensions, lower life costs, a life that couldn't wait. Today, Serbia is last in Europe on average. Today, the quality of life in Serbia is also the lowest, of all the countries in Europe, even in this infamous record of the past, Albania and Macedonia, which were the poorest countries, with the lowest quality of life. Today in Serbia, almost a third of young people want to leave this country because it has no perspective. In addition to the full economic imperceptibility and inability to live normally, this government has made it possible for us to get a new Information Law in these two years, which significantly deprives civil liberties and public expression, so today you can see in the media only what the parties in power like. We've also received the Law of Electronic Communications, according to which the government can listen to the one who comes to mind. Today, information has been released in "Pres", the title says "Serbia lowers the ramp at the border" – that soon everyone suspected as potential asylum seekers in the EU will have to answer where and why they travel, how much money they have, and that they support their claims with evidence. Minister Dacic, the police minister, announces that police officers at border crossings will have to question anyone who suspects where he travels, how much money he carries, why he travels and how long he stays and anyone suspected will have to prove his claims. I'm asking you, or I'm asking the police minister, on the basis of which parameters will be determined who is suspicious and who is not suspicious? How will this idea of examining who goes abroad be implemented, and why, how much money does he carry and how much will he stay there? In addition to all possible denials of economic freedoms and freedom of information, we will now have, despite the free visa regime, the right to free movement seems to be denied, so the government will limit anyone suspected of crossing the border. We believe this is a completely inappropriate thing in a country called democratic, and we ask that these things are not applied, because it will completely collapse the fragile freedoms of the country, which are marred by the coming of this coalition to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45529	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45530	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a question for the Ministry of Sports. That's the current question, and it was supposed to be ten years back, and that's when will the Ministry of Sports refer to the National Assembly in the procedure of a new draft law on sports? For ten years, from these democratic changes in 2000 to today, the law is pending. We have changed many things in the country of Serbia, many of the laws have changed; here, the criminal procedure has been in the process several times, and now one part of the law is in the process again, and the law on sports is not on the agenda. Whenever I ask a question for those ten years, how many MPs I am, what about the law on sports and when they will come – here, wait, we will see. Everyone here knows, I'm going to say it publicly, two clubs, not sports societies, but two clubs, for ten years it's been holding back the law on sports in Serbia. They're Partizan and Red Star football clubs. Now we're dealing with a fan problem, what they're doing on the street, violence, etc., and it's essentially about fans of two football clubs playing football worse and worse. We could see it yesterday in the Champions League, as a second-class club from Portugal, Brag, "beat" our champion as a joke. Nothing happens or solves. Why? Because the law should provide for the privatisation of clubs and privatisation of buildings. We all know that, for example, these two buildings, the Red Star stadiums and the Partizan, have been built by the state of Serbia and, of course, that the state of Serbia should privatise them and that the law should so predict, and that is what the problem is. During that time, in a modern world that we seek, an Arsenal leaves Vembly and makes a new stadium, the Emirats Arena, which we all admire when we look at it, which is also far better than the old Vembly. During that time, a small club in England, and we all watch the English league, Bolton, sell the stadium in downtown London and go to the periphery where it makes a new one for much less money than it took to sell the old one, which is also much better from a security point of view. Then we wonder that "The Premier League" is so much better and that "The League Prime Minister" matches are so much better, and there the em is all privatized, everyone behaves responsibly, so of course they have more responsible fans. Yesterday we heard the news that the Red Star held a meeting with its fans and agreed to a famous derby, where twenty-two, who barely know how to play football, run in the field, will be no unrest. Look, he set up a football club with fans not to, and you're here looking for the cause of violence! We're passing dragon laws and we're discussing it. I can say this because I was in football, I was the vice president of a club that played four times in Europe, the Sartide football club at the time, today it's Smederevo. We've never shamed Serbia. We had a great show back then. I know the situation. In 2001, I told Dragan Jajic that he had ruined the Red Star and Serbian football and that because of him, the Red Star would never play in the Champions League; here, ten years later, the Champions League did not come, nor will it, as long as it behaves in this way. We like to take pictures next to athletes. During that time, the water polo team is raising credit to go to the World Cup. The volleyball players don't have the money. The basketball alliance has no money to pay Dud Ivkovic for the results he achieves, but the Red Star and Partizan, football clubs and not sports societies, are still privileged. That's why I think, if we want to solve the problem, part of solving everything that's happening to us is the adoption of a new law on sports. Once again, I ask the Minister's question - when will he send a new proposal for a law on sports to the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45531	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45532	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if it makes any sense for us to meet like this and ask questions to the government. The government has never respected us to send his answers. I personally asked Prime Minister Cvetkovic several times the same question, and I repeat it again. I haven't got the answer yet. What about Nuba Invest, how did she get jobs without a tender? How can a company with 3,000 euros, without a director, without any employee to get such a big job, be a carrier, completely, of a big system like the optics on Corridor 10? No one took care of it, no one gave an answer. I asked a second question, very important -- who authorized the Serbian Ombudsman to give up shares in "Zagrebska Banka", which amounted to up to two billion euros, and to transfer it to private accounts and encrypted individual accounts? There is an official letter on this, signed by the Serbian Defence Office. I asked Minister Cvetkovic that question, and I asked him if he wanted me to give him a copy of the paperwork to start the procedure, and I didn't get an answer until today. I have asked a number of other issues that are very important for Serbia – how the "Mobtel" funds have been spent, how the funds from the Belgrade Stock Houses and the funds from the sale of the third operator in telecommunications. I didn't get an answer until today. I've asked the same question several times. So I don't see any reason to ask questions. I highly appreciate Mr. Ugljanin, I'm glad he came here today on behalf of the government, but asking a question to the government that has no answers to all the wrinkling and awkward questions, I don't think it makes any sense anymore, because no one understands as an obligation to answer this House. We're asking questions about a series of other projects that are very important. I asked the question how is it possible for the government of the Republic of Serbia to allow some advice created as the government's advisory body to put an end to the concession that has passed the parliamentary procedure and most of the votes voted in this parliament. Is it possible that any advice, which is a working body of the Government, which has the right to make such advice as much as it will, will shut down the concession without any explanation or feedback, and that concession has passed the procedure in parliament, has been debated for several days and most of the votes voted in this House? Is any advice more important and stronger than the parliament of the Republic of Serbia? Why are we humiliating our institutions ourselves? I asked a question when parliament would receive a report from the National Bank of Serbia, the governor changed. Never. We haven't received a foreign reserve report, how reduced they are, where they are, where the banks are, how many foreign reserves we now have, and who is authorized to have these foreign reserves. Of course, that question was never answered either. A very important question, I asked how is it possible for Minister Dinkic to voluntarily violate the Budget Law and have the funds he wants, making some of his regional centres and spending billions from the Serbian budget? Who authorized him to do that? If we in this House have passed the Budget Law, does it have to be respected? It can only be changed through rebalancing in this parliament, no budget law can change any individual from the government. However, the government, with its fifteen coalition partners and groups that, in order for the government to not fall, to be held, make mutual deals... That's why the government is extremely expensive. They give in to each other and no one touches very delicate subjects. I asked a question loud and clear – which of the government's officials has companies that are led to members of their closest family and are they working with state-owned public enterprises? But to that question... Name and last name, which officials, which coalition partners have private businesses on their family members, on themselves and do they work with state public enterprises and how much traffic are they making, especially with the RTS Public Service? Of course, I didn't get an answer to that question either. So please, Mr. Ugljanin, intervene with the Prime Minister, if you're coming, if we ask questions, that they at least behave and answer us. By the way, those answers are very important to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45533	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to ask for an explanation? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. Notice of invitation to the sitting: pursuant to Article 90(1) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for today's session, next to the representative of proposal Vuk Jeremic, the foreign minister, and Sulejman Ugljanin, the minister without portfolio, to be present also Mirko Stefanovic, State Secretary at the Foreign Ministry and Momirka Marinkovic, assistant foreign minister. We move to a joint single search of the 3-6th item of the agenda – AZERBJAN PROPOSAL ON THE COURT OF CERTIFICATION OF THE PROVISION OF THE DIPLOMATIC AND SERVANTS AND WITH BRAZIL ON THE UKIDENCE OF THE COUNTRY FOR THEIR COUNTRIES, AS WELL AS FOR THE NOSES OF DIPLOMATE OR OF SERVANTS OF THE SERVANTS OF THE National Assembly to conduct a joint Single Search on 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint Single Search, I remind you that, according to Article 170 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group of SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; Parliament group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Donka Banović and MP Zoran Krasic. If there are any other notices about the election of an authorised representative or representative of a parliamentary group, please send them to us. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil on the abolition of visas for their nationals and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic or official passports. Before I ask the proposer's representative, on the basis of Article 90(2) and Article 87, I shall inform the MPs that the usual one-hour break will be given at 1600 hours, unless we have completed our work in a joint single search, and that in case we do not finish until 1800 hours, we will continue to work after 1800 hours, on the basis of Article 87. Does Minister Ugljanin want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45534	Dear MPs, the government has made a concrete proposal concerning all three agreements. It's all in the context of our opening up to the world. We expect to hear the opinions of the parliamentary groups and certainly propose that these agreements be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45535	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45536	Dearly respected presidency, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, as Vice-President Mrs Comic said, we are considering four different agreements signed by the government of the Republic of Serbia from three states as part of this unique search. We all know the procedure, that these agreements come to the Assembly to be ratified. This is one of the few unique searches where logic is monitored that they can be united, practically, it's all the same matter, different agreements, i.e. different visas are lifted or retained, unlike yesterday's single search where we had a unified amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure and a law on the extension of the validity of travel documents. Yesterday we mixed frogs and grandmothers. Today we're talking about these four agreements. One agreement between Serbia and Azerbaijan on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Two agreements were signed between Serbia and Brazil. One agreement envisions visa waiver for Brazilian citizens, and the other is on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Practically, under these agreements, Brazilian citizens will not have to provide visas for entry into Serbia, and Serbian citizens who are not carriers of diplomatic and official passports will still have to do so. Then there is the fourth agreement, which Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic signed with Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. The agreement envisions visa waiver for Turkish and Serbian citizens. There are no visas for the citizens of Turkey or for the citizens of Serbia. Citizens will not be obliged to obtain visas for entry, exit, transit, passage through the country and temporary stay in the country for up to 90 days over a six-month period. If a citizen wants to extend that stay, to be longer than 90 days, he is obliged to apply to a certain diplomatic or consular representation. Otherwise, by the entry into force of this Agreement, it will be about 30 days from now, the 2001 Agreement, signed between the Republic of Turkey and the then SRJ, ceases to apply. With this agreement we got two annexes, Annex 1 and Annex 2. These are the constituents of the Agreement. In Annex 1, there is a list of valid documents for Serbian citizens travelling to Turkey. If you have had the opportunity to read these annexes, you can see that five different travel documents are foreseen, from diplomatic passports to passports. When it comes to Serbian citizens, there are five such documents. In Annex 2, there is a list of valid documents for Turkish citizens travelling to Serbia, and here we have a list of eight different documents, starting with diplomatic passports, I don't have time to list everything. What can be noticed... Although these differences were likely due to different national legislations; I assume that in Serbia we do not have some of these travel documents that exist in accordance with Turkish legislation. But what wonders is: why is there no temporary passport on the list of valid documents for Serbian citizens? Now, if there was someone at the M.O.P., maybe he could explain it to me. Why? Because people usually, so in practice, get temporary passports if they lose passports in another country or, God forbid, they get stolen. I don't know if any of you have had a chance to lose a valid passport in a country. Then you have to go to the consulate so they can give you that temporary travel document. For example, it was recently in the paper that Saturday high school students were robbed of things, but also passports. Then in Italy, our consulate had to give these passengers, i.e. students temporary passports. That's one logical question. When it comes to abolishing visas between certain countries, it is mostly an absolutely positive thing. There, Minister Ljajic said in his brief explanation or explanation of these agreements that it was our opening to the world. Yes, lifting visas is absolutely, almost always a very positive thing for both citizens and the economy. Especially when it comes to Turkey, we know how many members of families living in both countries, and that Turkey has been, in recent times, rightly, one of the most popular tourist destinations. The abolition of all visas will indeed be positive and will make life easier for citizens. In light of this agreement, the proposer cited a number of reasons why this agreement was signed. Because of the citizens, I know you've been reading, just to list some. This agreement was signed and when it was signed, it came from the good and friendly relations between the two states and mutual interests in improving them. The second reason is that both countries are interested in building a strategic partnership. I stress the words “strategic partnership”. Furthermore, they want to step up contacts and co-operation on a plan to stabilise opportunities in the region. I stress the words "stabilising opportunities in the region". One of the reasons is also to improve bilateral relations and that the two countries want to support each other on the road to EU integration. We will support each other on our way to the EU. In this explanation, you also inform us that the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey achieved significant positive developments in political relations in 2009 and 2010. Yeah, positive, but for who? Has this development, you say, been positive for Serbia over the past two years? The fact is that the leaders of Serbia and Turkey have met many times and Turkey is increasingly engaged politically in the Balkans. The impression is that suddenly Istanbul (when I tell us, I think the Republic of Serbia) is that Istanbul or Ankara is much closer to us than Brussels or Moscow. The Serb suspicion of Turkey's intentions in the Balkans is logical and multiplely justified. The suspicion comes from historical experience and collective memory. Now someone's going to say -- leave it, it's ancient history, we all have to experience amnesia, it's been a long time, etc. But I'll also remind you of some events from a nearer past that, whether or not they wanted to, cause suspicion. For example, the conduct and behaviour of the Republic of Turkey during the Yugoslav crisis and wars of the 1990s. Then, Turkey's determination to create a fake state of Kosovo and help Kosovo Albanians dissipate our country. Perhaps, for example, one of the last statements in the Security Council, when Serbia, together with the EU and Turkey, submitted a shameful resolution – after the ambassadors, the United States spoke to the ambassador of Turkey; if you listened to it, then you saw that his exposure was indeed a source of friendship and concern for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. That's what this strategic partnership looks like. What are some other results of Turkey's engagement in the last two years? I'll remind you, we know all this, but I'm saying this more for the citizens. I'll just list a few things. They all heard it and know it, however, from this halabuka of various non-essential topics, which simply draw the fog on some very important things that are happening under the grain, they can't even remember what's going on. I'll remind them. By the way, the general impression among citizens is that the Republic of Turkey has somehow placed itself in line with those countries that are putting various pressures on Serbia, which very often look like real blackmail. Unfortunately, the government has succumbed to every blackmail so far, so that citizens simply fear what will come next and who will be promised and what will happen to Serbia. What is evident, the number of problems has not been reduced and Serbia is not more stable. Now I remind you of those reasons that the government has cited for signing this agreement – how we are now strategic partners and how we are going to work on stabilisation in the region. Nor are we strategic partners, we are obviously obedient, and that the situation is more stable, is not. For example, there was a destabilising of opportunities in Sandzak or Raška region, as who calls it. There's Minister Ljajic, I'm sorry, Ugljanin, I apologize, who is from Novi Pazar and he understands what I'm talking about very well. The situation is not more stable there, the situation is currently unstable. However, this has also been produced by the incompetent Serbian government, which has contributed greatly to destabilising the area by making some wrong decisions, a completely wrong policy, completely ignoring the economic development of the work. For example, it scared me when I read a statement the other day by Mr. Sutanovac's defence minister, who said, quote, "how in Sandzak will not repeat the Kosovo scenario". Why does Minister Sutanovac even talk about the Kosovo scenario when he talks about problems in Sandzak or the Rasko area, if everything is so idyllic and if Turkey wants to stabilise opportunities? We now have a minister from the Serbian government who says – there will not be a repeat Kosovo scenario. That's not normal. The second example I want to make is that Turkey has put great pressure on Serbia to bring the Srebrenica Resolution to the public and secret channels. In doing so, Turkey ignores the genocide of the Armenians. Foreign Minister Davutoglu told reporters who followed him on the road to Bulgaria a few months before the vote in this House of Resolution on Srebrenica, we could read that in the paper, that, I quote, "thanking the Turkish takeover, Serbs would apologize for killing Turks in Srebrenica. “ These are his words: “Turk in Srebrenica, ” I quoted him as saying. Later, Davutoglu also said, although Mr Jeremic never denied it or confirmed that he had met with Minister Jeremic even eleven times in half a year to agree on the text of the Srebrenica Resolution. So the Serbian government glued the label to its own people that it was genocide. Another example of pressure and blackmail... (President Nikola Novakovic: Mrs. Banovic, I apologize, I must ask you to link all of this to the item on the agenda in the next four and a half minutes, and these are the proposals of the law on the confirmation of the visa waiver agreement. Thank you. ) Mr. Novakovic, in the first part, I was talking about the proposal, I was talking about the explanation, and now I'm commenting on the part of the argument. I suppose the MP can say what he thinks about the reasoning he received for a certain law from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm in the dark. A third example of pressure and blackmail on Serbia and the Serbian judiciary that I will quote is the release of Ilija Jurisic, who was sentenced to 12 years; he did three and his lawyer practically said he had no obligation to appear at a retrial. I'll finish the sentence. It seems that these "best" in Serbia do not lead to European integration. It is evident that he has joined other Western Balkan states and that Serbia is going into Ottoman integration. Whoever reads literature in this area will see the analysis that at this moment the beginning of some Balkan union, where the main word will be led by the Republic of Turkey, so we have learned that Europe still has an alternative – the alternative to Europe is Ottoman integration, so that citizens know. But you need to let them know, so they know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45537	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45538	I thank MPs Donki Banovic for one exhaustive explanation of this bill. I can tell you that as a government, we've had a liquid life in mind. As you know, our tourists travel to Turkey, students travel, patients are treated in the most modern clinics in Turkey. This law aims only to help citizens who already use their rights, their opportunities and explore new opportunities to do so in a much easier way. The truth is, if we go back, there are some reasons, there are some previous debts, uncleared accounts, but as far as the question of our citizens' dignity is concerned, we have in mind that our dignity is the most injured by our young people not working. Turkey is among the 20 most developed countries in the world. As far as building infrastructure is concerned, the third is in the world. We want to take advantage of its opportunities, especially at the time of our business co-operation, i.e. free trade with Russia, Belarus, the CEFTA countries, to help and to enable Turkish investors to invest their money here and use this diagonal cumulation of the origin of goods, to bring their money here, to hire our young people, to start working, earning and earning courage, to get women, to marry and form their families, to prevent the departure of young people from underdeveloped communities into developed. To tell you the truth, as co-chair of the Economic Co-operation Commission with Turkey, I have many conversations at all levels and I see that they are not very interested, their political summit, to conclude these agreements either. But life goes to it. If we already have since 1 September, if the Free Trade Act has entered into force, we have had an obligation to enable these future strategic partners, when they invest their money in Serbia, whether a million or 100m euros, to come without waiting at the airport or not to be returned from the airport. So our government's proposal is to meet life. The second thing, when we talk about all these political issues, we give an economic answer to all the political problems. It's an attempt. Certainly, we are here to respect your opinion, yet you are representatives of the people, you are MPs, and I will convey every proposal to the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45539	Thank you, Minister. The word is from Mr Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Please sign in. Be nice, it's obvious that our system is rustic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45540	I know why the system doesn't work, Mr. Novakovic, but what's worth, if I tell you, goes to the right shoe child. Mr. Ugljanin, since you have accepted a very difficult intellectual job to convey to the government what MPs think, I would recommend that you take a stenogram after this, don't bother yourself, and I will explain everything to you what the views of the Serbian Radical Party are. I'm glad there's a representative of our Committee on Foreign Affairs, fostered and fostered here, it would be good for our public to know what foreign policy this is. Mr. Ugljanin, today we are talking about the foreign policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia on four points of the agenda concerning visas for citizens, diplomats and those who have official passports. I want to draw attention to the beginning that all this matter is regulated both by international agreements and international conventions. There's a Vienna convention from fifty-sixty years ago that regulates these things. The UN Charter's basic principles are to develop peace, good neighbourly relations, co-operation, so that some interstate conflicts with inconceivable adverse consequences do not occur, and certainly they are armed conflicts, war, destruction, etc. So the whole international public law is actually international law, and that's where we end up. So we all have a duty to contribute to the creation of peace, to the development of good relationships and to the development of planet Earth at all. Why am I saying that today we are talking about the foreign policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Because now, in concreteising these basic principles of the Charter of the EU, what is written in our Constitution, we can appreciate what this policy is like. Mr. Ugljanin, in several places in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija are mentioned as sacred. Even the President of the Republic as an organ, not as an individual but as an organ, swears allegiance to the Constitution and, if necessary, bleeds, but preserves at all costs Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Underneath that, you can't go. Now, are you going to say that it's a red line, a yellow line, a blue line, a green line, I'm not interested in that long spectrum of color lines at all, but in what's written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Ugljanin, in the development of relations between states, when it comes to bilateral relations, each country is managed by two principles. When it comes to these visa regimes for citizens, for citizens, it is taken care of that the newly established regime should enable citizens to achieve some of their needs, so it can be a tourist trip, a visit to relatives, it can be, as you say, treatment; I extend that and I say new technological achievements, the development of economic relations. How am I supposed to interpret, Mr. Ugljanin? To sell our goods to them, to take from them only what we don't have, and it's technology, to export our culture, to export our language, etc. So we're handling our interests, we're as ordinary citizens, and those who are in power and are doing it for four years (not important as they came, legally likely) put the interests of the people who live here, and then their personal interests. There's one category, it's like this -- with a country we're in friendly relations with, with another state we're not in very friendly relationships, we have some open topics. What the body called the President of the Republic would say - we agreed on issues that we disagree on. You know, it's the ultimate philosophical range of that so-called real policy. Why are we telling you this? We're having an SAA today. You know, it's not that SAA that was ratified two years ago. We have a Serbian social policy. It is based on principle - declare a man a hooligan, send him to prison, there will be free bread, water and food. Because obviously, you out of the budget can't run an active social policy. We have this SAA, like, Serbian foreign policy; the SAA, about, that foreign policy is based on one principle that says -- we'll be fine and we'll be even better; there's a saying -- when the Germans come, there's another saying -- we'll be better when the Turks come. And so you can sort, the message is the same. We won't be any better if we don't do what's necessary ourselves. We can't get any better on the side. Since there is an agreement in this agenda with the Republic of Turkey, we would now have to look a little bit at our needs and what our interests are. I do not dispute that people are going on a summer trip to Turkey, and if they are going; they are mostly going to that Aegean part, where Greece was once, Mr. Ugljanin, until 1922, and then one of the greatest ethnic cleansings happened. Do you remember that, not as a participant, but as a student? That's what we learned at school. Just to remind you, Chesma, I think, six thousand people came from Sarajevo, even there are places that have our names, Tuzla, Foca, Ilica, you don't know that? I know it all, I've been there, nice places. In memory, the exiled Greeks on the other hand gave the "new", so we have a new Marmaris, the new one, the new one. So that was one of the greatest ethnic cleansing of the 20s, the population's migration. Do you remember anything called genocide between 1915 and 1920? Mr. Ugljanin, don't trust Zoran Krasic, please trust Sweden, Uruguay, Cyprus, the Russian Federation, Greece, Lebanon, Belgium, France, Italy, the Vatican, Switzerland, Argentina, Canada, Slovakia, the Netherlands, Poland, Venezuela, Germany, Lithuania, Chile, and it didn't go through in the US this year. So, a million and a half people. What does that have to do with this agenda point? Mr. Ugljanin, Turkey recognised independent Kosovo on 18 February 2008. This means that they had a stored confession statement, probably the day before that, means on the day of Kosovo's declaration of independence. When I mentioned the Armenians to you, it is some fourteen provinces that have the same meaning for the Armenian people as Kosovo and Metohija for the Serbian people. Just to remind you that this year one of our citizens went there on March 15th and in Yerevan, where there was a monument, wrote a statement, I would say a statement on behalf of all of us – we became victims of the same crime. I understand that Turkey has an interest in abolishing visas, because the visa regime with Turkey so far has been: land at the airport, give ten euros, they strike you with the stamp and the whole visa combination is completed. Why did they do that? No more visas with the Greeks, they want to be a tourist power. I agree, the Turks run a smart tourism policy, a smart monetary policy, they boast, the Greeks "broken" the moment the euro entered their payments. They keep their lira, they take care of their interests, and I respect that. I also respect their quest to lift the visa so as many of our people go there to fly. But we have to have some reflection of state policy. This country needs to cultivate friendly relations with countries that respect our interests, starting with the original ones, to these today's. You can't just give primate to the economic interests of the Republic of Serbia. I see no interest in the Republic of Serbia. Turkey is the first to recognise independence, i.e. it was the first to be Costa Rica, the second to be the United States, the third to be France, the fourth to be Afghanistan (where drugs are made), the fifth to be Albania and then Turkey. So 15% of the territory is being taken from us, the Turks say - it's good. And our foreign policy goes there because the Americans told the Turks to be a bridge between Bosnia and Herzegovina or, to be more precise, the leadership that is located in Sarajevo and the Republic of Serbia, because we have an obligation to warm up relations with some environment. Melt them all you want. Turkey first cried out that there is genocide in Srebrenica and Turkey does not allow anyone to decide that in 1915 it was a genocide against Armenians. What archin is that? A million and a half people! They take care of their interests. I'm not so unreasonable in politics to say that Turks should condemn themselves. No, that's their policy. But why don't we run that policy they run? In the center of their foreign policy, they put their relations. So, even through the visa regime, which undoubtedly benefits, I must say, by abolishing. It's a tendency today to lift visas etc. Somewhere, and somewhere it'll never be a tendency. The United States, Great Britain, Scotland and some other countries are simple (as real, fear of terrorism, or not, it doesn't matter) made a curtain. You heard what Mrs. Merkel said a few days ago. She got caught by cameramen with three fingers, a little lame photos, but she's been in Germany for a year, so on. The concept of a "babrarian housewife", where the Germans simply say their interests are first. They say this way -- there are some who live there for 30 years so they haven't assimilated to German society, they still don't speak German, and they only come to receive social assistance. You know, it's like imaginary humanists, those planetary justice exorcists, they seem like they're skimming, but it's a reflection of the struggle for the sovereignty of a territory. Do you see how much injustice exists in this international law? If we had passed the law here to get rid of the wares, we'd probably have been bombed. Some countries bring it in cold, and everyone calm. I don't know what standard we're applying. Here's another example: pay attention to these agreements signed with Brazil. Brazil is a friendly state of the Serbian people. It says: composed in Serbian, Portuguese and English. There's no Brazilian language. They don't have Montenegrins. You know, when we make something with Montenegro, it says - in both Serbian and Montenegrin. Look what it's all about. You see how some principles are respected, they're universal. What's our principle? Hold the chair. Don't hold my chair, and I'll mess up everything and everything and everything will be pro-European, everything will be the United Nations, etc. Here, on two examples, I have shown this inconsistencies of Turkey when it comes to Serbia as a state, to understand: about genocide or what someone calls genocide, what you want to interpret, both Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are a question of all issues for us. Someone disagrees with that, someone thinks it's high, that it's a story, that it's a call to history, that it's a dream, that a lot of people can say, but for our republic, for this people, Kosovo and Metohija are important. Be careful, if these Turkish representatives who participated in the negotiations were a little more intelligent, they could force Vuk Jeremic to condemn all Turkish victims during the Kosovo color, and since this is what we call money, they would probably also bring a resolution to condemn Milos Obilic and Emperor Lazar. You know, they don't think with their brains. There are files, hop, including hooligans, Serbian social policy, everyone in prison, there's bread and water. Serbian foreign policy – accept everything, just to bring money. Now I have to distract you, I think something else is hiding here. Given that there are several countries here, first of all I think of Turkey, the possibility that holders of diplomatic and official passports by accelerated procedure, without visas can cross, without some big procedure, I think there is a back-up option for the escape of individual ministers. So there's no administrative procedure anymore. When it's thick... You know, it used to be "When It's Hard - Covic". Now, when it's hard, Turkey. Burn there, it'll be protected, I'm sure. When I say this, I don't mean you, that you don't get me wrong, I mean these others who are oho-ho, long ago ministers. You know all the lies that went through Serbia? Free shares of 1000 euros, and that of 1,700 dinars. Devalued the euro with them. Don't let me talk to you any further. Well, 200,000 people we'll hire, and they fire 200,000 people. Now it's about time to charge. You see, you can't lie anymore. You can't create anything imaginary anymore. I'd just draw your attention, B 92 info, that means Belgrade 92, call the police, have that Info, that's BIA, has the Euronews show. Do you know what nice contributions they make to the EU? When you look at these attachments, anyone who looks at it collapses any desire to think about the European Union. A fantastic contribution to the banishment of the Roma from Paris, please, with the passport of the European Union! The French banish Europeans. Spain is on its feet because they have frozen public sector wages. You see in France, they said – we raise the border from 60 to 62 years, and the one from 65 to 67. Private, public sector, students, even high school students say preventively – we have to go out to save our rights. Angela Merkel says -- a cultural project, an EU multicultural project, is over. You know, you have to in that opening... You said these four laws are in the opening function. What kind of opening? Let's open up like a can, shall we? I suppose it's the basic task of all the laws being passed here to ratify some agreements to verify our foreign policy? I'm just asking no one to interpret that I have something against these states. No, I'm against the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure the representatives of these countries with whom you have concluded the agreements, since May of this year, have taken care of their interests. The Turks said – if there are no more visas for Serbs in the Greeks, we also take down visas to grab tourists. A normal reason, a completely normal reason, but where are our interests? Can we say - well, we respect your interest, but it would be good, gentlemen from Turkey, to say to the UN that Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, it means a great deal to us, to the representatives of the authorities in the Republic of Serbia. So you go out and say -- gentlemen from Turkey, stop that story about Srebrenica, to me as Sulejman Ugljanin means that you Turks say -- enough, we won't talk about it anymore, so the people vote for me, so that you can deal with politics. No, I'm not calling you, I understand your interests, but I'm having trouble with that flower that runs the country. He doesn't care about the state, he doesn't care about the borders, he cares about the chair, he's smiling; he loves Hillary Clinton, and let's change our suits to the BBC, give the red sign, give the red tie, give this, look at him, nice and nice. Serbian foreign policy – SSP, we don't care; Serbian social policy – everyone in prison, you'll have bread and water, and then we'll declare our children hooligans.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45541	Thank you. The word is from Mr Bajram Omeragic, deputy head of the Group of Minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45542	Dear President-in-Office, honourable ministers, I would first like to express my satisfaction because the government of the Republic of Serbia has finally accepted that visas should be lifted with the Republic of Turkey, given that the facts are in favour of our interest. Hundreds of thousands of our tourists and businessmen are waiting in huge ranks. As you know, Istanbul airport is one of the most visited after Frankfurt and London. That's where the kilometre lines are formed to take out the visa, past. This is, I say, the end of our citizens' suffering. The data says hundreds of thousands of our citizens visit Istanbul, Antalya, Izmir and other parts. This agreement is also very important for other matters, and that is because we have a number of diaspora in Turkey. This agreement will motivate them to come to this country more often. We in Turkey leave hundreds of millions of dollars as tourists. I will talk later about the deficit we have with Turkey in trade and in tourist services. The interest of the Serbian state is to bring Turkish tourists to our country, to leave millions of dollars, as we leave in Turkey. I am extremely pleased with the fact that this bill came from the Bosniak List, as a list that participates in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that our proposal that we have advocated has finally been accepted in several terms in this House. When it comes to a country, the visa waiver, we had speakers who extended this topic to the strategic foreign policy of the Serbian state, which refers to the previous period, to the present and also to some kind of projection of our foreign policy for the future. For the sake of the public, we need to say a few words with whom we're ending visas. We are abolishing the country that today is the 14th country in the world of economic development, member G 20. Let me tell you the fact that the gross social product of the Republic of Turkey is $593,000 million. As much as it is a regulated country, as much as it is a country that has taken a European path shows the fact that 14,500 foreign companies are operating in Turkey today, 80% are from the EU. Today, Turkey is exporting $111 billion, 57% of exports to the European Union. This Turkey, from that east, as it is in the intonation of many MPs, today there are almost 60% of exports to that Western Europe, where we want to enter. You know that Turkey is a candidate for the EU. The next data is that only in the last two years Western companies have opened 3,000 companies in Turkey. As far as history goes, there's one thing that says that history is taught not by the past, but by the future. We could be holding here today to see what's who's who in this territory 500 years ago. That's what historians, scientific institutes, academys should do. What does today's reality say? Today's reality says – when Barak Obama wins the election in America, another destination where Ankara goes. Why is he going there, that world's greatest force? He is going to meet with President Gul and Tayyip Erdogan, leaders who lead modern Turkey to the EU, a country that has achieved economic development in just seven years that is not remembered after China in the near economic history. You have the following information, gentlemen: today, when the world looms in the economic crisis, you have 5.9 feet of economic growth in the Republic of Turkey. With Turkey, you have China. Imagine that Turkey, as some MPs speak, that it has such economic growth! Does a country that is unregulated, which has no regulated relationship, not follow some European principles can make such an industry export 60% of its products to the EU? May we experience that 60% of our products are exported to the EU. I hope that through this co-operation that we have had in the last few years, which is something that we haven't had in the last 30 years – President Tadic and President Abdullah Gul have met more than five times, Mr Jeremic eleven or twelve times with Minister Davutoglu, not to list the other ministers, of course, with an initiative that came from the Bosniak List and representatives of the Bosniak List in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ugljanin – on this plan we launched some initiatives that lead this country into normalising relations with this very important country. You know that these days our patients are being treated in Turkey, we are flying to Turkey, but let's ask ourselves why Turkey, which was in Romania and Bulgaria where it was 500 years ago, employs 30,000 people in Bulgaria and Romania, and we employ a few hundred people (we have an investment from Heineken or Ephesus). It is our interest to exchange Turkish producers' habits with our producers in economic co-operation to raise them to a higher level. I'll tell you one thing. As a representative of this parliament, I was in Turkey almost a hundred miles south of Istanbul, where you have an industrial zone that has 280 factories. Two factories have three hundred million dollars worth of technology. The budget of the Development Fund, we had almost a report, gentlemen dear, which supports industrial production in this country is 100m euros. So much, for the sake of order of greatness, with whom we are today abolishing the visa regime. As far as our country's foreign policy is concerned, the Bosniak List affects the government and parliament that our 1990s policy never repeats itself, never repeats the policy of isolation, but the policy of active co-operation. Let me remind you of another information that is worrying for us, and we are trying to correct it with Turkish companies. When it was former Yugoslavia, you know that we worked from Morocco to Indonesia: our "Comgrap", "Rad", "Philip Kljajic", the PKK, I don't know which companies; we made billions of dollars in Iran, Morocco, in other world capitals, especially I'm talking about the countries of Magreb and the work of the Muslim world; we built them dams, railways, airports, military facilities, invested in agriculture. Today you know the catastrophic data for our economy. I'm saying that to inform you that today, Turkey... From Morocco to Indonesia, their company has jobs worth more than $120,000. Our interest, that was our market, which we lost in the early 1990s by leading autistic foreign policy, a policy that couldn't be recognized in the world, that didn't recognize friends. Although there is one diplomat whose sentence remains in the history of diplomacy, it says: “There are no more friends and more enemies, there are only greater interests. ” There were a lot of stories here about whether Turkey confessed to anyone, she didn't admit. Let me remind you, my fellow People's MPs, the Bosniak List is otherwise known for its support for the survival of the state of Serbia-Montenegro. We felt that there was no large economic, political, rational, national and any other reason for such a state to fall apart. We were, I must say, pretty lonely in that sense. Of course, we heard in this House that Russia is an extremely friendly country for us, which will not do anything wrong on the international agenda, which Serbia does not think. But, gentlemen, to inform you, Russia has recognised among the first independent Republic of Montenegro. Why, besides all the outpourings of our emotions? So that kind of rhetoric about who's who's friend, that's what modern diplomacy has left in the long run. Today, there is no such emotional friendship in the world, calling for some historical friendships, but there are interests, and we are a small country and we owe... The Bosniak list has always advocated that we have the best possible relations with Russia; both Russia and Turkey and America, both with the EU and with all countries on planet Earth. We're a small country and we have to cooperate with everyone, we have to cooperate with everyone. Of course, with democratic countries, countries that respect certain principles and principles of the UN. I mentioned Russia, the Bosniak List believes that this level of relations with Russia is low... (President: Mr. Omeragic, I apologize, I must remind you of the obligation of Article 106 to speak of the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. We went to Russia, we went around the world a lot, and we essentially just want to cancel visas, confirm agreements with Turkey, Azerbaijan and Brazil. So there are other big states on the agenda. Thank you. I only mentioned in the announcement because previous MPs turned this debate on visa-free regime into pledoies for some new foreign policy of our country. In that sense, I used something that was said before me. I'm going to make a comparison for two countries that we different think are more or less friends of us. Only the company works, the last time Putin - Erdogan met, the result of that meeting, gentlemen dear, is $15 billion, a $15 billion job. Today, Turkey invested $28 billion in Russia. She doesn't mind Russia at all. Today, Turkey says Russia is her great friend. I repeat here: both Russia and Turkey. As far as this agreement is concerned, gentlemen, this agreement allows us citizens of the Republic of Turkey to meet our country, invest, as they invested in Russia, Bulgaria, Romania. Here is another information: Turkey invested about five and a half billion in the Federal Republic of Germany last year out of $25 billion of its investment outside Turkey's borders. So, according to us, this agreement should interfere with Turkish businessmen, Turkish citizens, our diaspora in Turkey, to start investment towards our country, to hire tens of thousands of people, to achieve even better communication, to deepen our Balkan relations. A country that has a developed economy corresponds to stability, is matched by good neighbourly relations, organized relationships. When we talk about what someone once meant to someone 500 years ago, history teaches us (the end, the chairman), 1945, after millions of people killed in World War II, in a war between France and Germany, millions of dead... Just four years after the war, representatives of France and Germany sat down and said – history in institutions, history at the university, and we create the beginnings of the European Union, a Union that does not remember the history of political life. We want to get into that European Union, and people are only four years old... I'll remind you of the relations between the two countries that explain a little world policy: one terrible thing that was thrown out at the end of forty and some years, in a remote country, there people still suffer from it today... In just four years, the United States has made Japan its greatest friend, in just four years; not friends, but the most developed country in the world, with which they fought only three or four years ago. So history doesn't teach us to call on good examples. If you want us to call in bad examples, you've got bad examples. We should look to the future, the future belongs to good relationships. The government of the Republic of Serbia has set off with this visa-free regime. Here we have Brazil, next to Turkey. You know very well that the next world power is with Brazil and India. The Bosniak List welcomes this agreement with Brazil, as we welcome all agreements, as we welcomed the agreement with Russia, both with Belarus and with all countries, and the reason is to open our country, our capacities, our tourism and to have a positive balance with other countries in this exchange. The visa-free regime agreement will allow the state of Serbia to end the negotiations on "Yat". Let me introduce you to the fact that the Turkish National Aviation Company has already completed its negotiations with Lota, the Polish airline, which it will buy. She rented four airports in the Balkans. The company "Turkish Airlines", today when there is a global aviation crisis, made a gross profit in the last year of $1,600,000. We're working on making Turkish companies through "Yat"... And, let me remind you, we, as the Bosniak List, have done a lot to get our IMT into co-operation with Hema, a famous Turkish firm that produces tractors. They already assemble and export tractors to third countries. That is why I call on you, on behalf of the Bosniak List and a group of minority MPs, to accept this agreement, because it will have far-reaching positive consequences for our country, our economy and will make life easier for the citizens of Turkey and Serbia and bring stability to our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45543	Thank you, Mr. Omeragic. We understand. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45544	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we just heard from each other, and we've heard all sorts of things... This morning I had some information that some parts of the city were closed, but we had no information as MPs that Turkish representatives were speaking in parliament today. The speech of the Serbian Radical Party MPs was named – pledoies for a new foreign policy. So it's not any new foreign policy. What we are saying is the policy of the Serbian Radical Party, which, when it comes to internal and foreign policy, has not changed for twenty years. Thus, it will remain until the end and as such, Serbia's citizens will clearly recognise it as the only and only real and external and internal policy for all citizens of Serbia. Here we have four proposals for an agreement: between the governments of the Republic of Serbia and Turkey on mutual visa waiver, and on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports with Azerbaijan and two agreements with Brazil -- one is the visa waiver for their citizens, and the other is the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic or official passports. Of course, it should also be spoken individually about each proposal for an agreement, but I don't see why it bothers to speak at all about political parties' views on foreign policy, because these proposals also talk about current foreign policy. I didn't quite understand why we should be happy and satisfied about the fact that Turkey is the 14th country on income in Europe. I don't know why in Serbia we should be happy and satisfied because the rate of economic growth in Turkey, I don't know how high, something incredibly high. Why should we care that Turkey has achieved unprecedented economic development? Why should we care that two factories in Turkey are worth $280,00,000? Something that most Serbian citizens would like to hear is that we could say here: our foreign policy has acted that the Turkish state that did not recognise Kosovo and Metohija; that the Turkish state that did not force Boris Tadic to declare himself in this parliament a Serb people genocide for a crime in Srebrenica, which is of course not genocide. I guess that's what's supposed to be motives for us to advocate bilateral relations with each other in Europe and the world. It was said here earlier that the language of modern diplomacy does not tolerate emotion. It's said in the greatest emotional charge, at least that's how I understood it. Maybe I didn't get it right, but that's exactly what I thought. The language of modern diplomacy and all diplomacy must and should be a language that speaks of interests; when it comes to us, MPs of this parliament, exclusively about Serbia's national interests and the interests of all Serbian citizens. Unfortunately, our experience with Turkey is not in favour of Turkey in any way favouring any interest of Serbia's citizens, for the dignity of the citizens of Serbia and this country, on the contrary. That is why we think that this agreement on mutual visa waiver with Turkey is absolutely not in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, but only in the interest of Turkey. If this is a substitute for 15% of the territory of the Serbian state, that is, Kosovo and Metohija, then we do not need Serbian radicals, and we are confident that not even most Serbian citizens, the vast majority. We have heard here about Turkey's economic progress, and we argue that this visa waiver is only in the interest of an even greater progress of Turkey. Of course, I said at the beginning, we don't care what Turkey's economic progress is; we're not about the principle of "the neighbors die a cow", but we are about the principle that we and our citizens get better. Why is this in the interest of Turkey? Because the visa-free regime will only mean an increase in the number of tourists in Turkey, tourists from Serbia. It wasn't long ago, several months ago, Boris Tadic boasted that during the summer season, during the tourist season, Serbian citizens would only be able to go to Croatia with a ID card, without passports. Who did he do a favor to then? Serbian citizens, who cannot go to Croatia without passports and without a visa before the season and after the season, and during the tourist season can only go with a ID card? It is truly amazing how you humiliate and demean us all! You disrespect us at every step of the way when it comes to foreign policy. And, of course, not just from the outside. Has anyone from the government of the Republic of Serbia, out of the regime, been ashamed of what some newspapers have written today, say, that the Serbian government has donated to the municipality of Cicevic a stolen car and that the delegation of the municipality of Cicevic in Slovenia has been detained, detained, etc. Because they drove a state Mercedes, which I don't know how much it costs and which one was stolen? Question is, who's the thief? We hope that one day, too, will be investigated. Not this particular case, but the question at all who's a thief, who's a criminal, who's a hooligan. You boast a lot about how you're prepared to deal with crime, with hooligans, etc. We invite you, do it once and for all. Do you think someone believes you were serious when you caught on, as Tadic said, in the face of crime? You catch some criminals, and where's Saric when it comes to drug dealers? Of course, you must not touch the top because you will reach the top of the state government. This and how it relates to today's agenda, because we want to talk and draw attention to Serbian citizens that our foreign policy is anything but foreign policy in the interests of Serbian citizens. That's why I deliberately mentioned Charic. I will also mention Stanko Subotic and Radulovic. I wonder if anyone else remembers him, except for those formerly employees of the "Ce Market" that he had eaten, small shareholders, etc.? Of course, as much as the country is sick, I guess one day we'll find out, too. I'll mention Ejup Ganic. All this and how it has to do with our "great" bilateral relations with these countries, which at every turn show that Serbia is not interested in them, which at every turn demean us, but unfortunately, with the consent of the government, the regime from Serbia. It would not be a problem for us that they are trying to demean us because they want to, but our problem is that representatives of our regime are offered to play humiliated in everything, not only in the EU countries, but also beyond. Do we need... We're talking about lifting visas with Turkey, Azerbaijan and Brazil. We Serbian radicals will commend that we will establish a visa-free regime with both Azerbaijan and Brazil because those countries have shown that they are Serbian friends. Every country in the world that has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija is a friend of Serbia. Every country that has recognised Kosovo as a state is the blood enemy of the Serbian state and we are obliged to treat these countries in this way. We in this House have to stamp it, we have to say it publicly, and we have to warn the regime not to let friends consider the states that took 15% of our territory. What visa-free regime are we talking about with any country in the world when Serbian state officials cannot go to Kosovo and Metohija, when Bogdanovic, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, who was born in Kosovo and Metohija, cannot go there? Do you remember, a few months ago, when he was stopped by KFOR representatives as poor and humble in front of them – but wait, I guess I can get in, I was born here, I didn't come from the forest or from another part of Serbia. Such a minister is one of the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia and one of those who run the foreign policy of the Serbian state. What about the one who is in charge of foreign policy under the Constitution, Boris Tadic? What should we say about this man who went to the inauguration of the Serbian patriarch, to the Serbian country of Kosovo and Metohija on a Croatian plane? Was he allowed to allow himself to do so by the president of the Serbian state? We say, "No, it's not." He can humiliate himself as much as he wants, but he has no right and must not humiliate the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. That's why we're talking about it and that's why we're going to talk publicly, remind the citizens of Serbia what kind of regime is in Serbia and remind the citizens of Serbia how much this regime cares about the citizens of Serbia. I'll remind you, some of you, probably our discussion today sounds like heresy, but I'll remind you that you've also looked at us in the same way when we talked about the white Schengen list, visas, etc. After a year, we can now say again – yes, Serbian citizens, Serbian radicals were right when they talked about it. Why do we say that? Of course, we had nothing against that white Schengen list at the time, but we claimed that no one in Serbia would be better off. Those who were able to travel were traveling before that Schengen list, traveling today. Those who couldn't do it before can't do it today. I'll illustrate it with an example. The citizens of Serbia, such as the visa-free regime, the white Schengen list, and rushed to take these new passports, with which they could cross over to another state without a visa. They were waiting for rows, paying taxes, coming in at five o'clock in the morning to get their turn, and now, that's a verifiable piece of information, I can ask him as a parliamentary question, to ask the Home Office to answer, so that all MPs can get acquainted with it, let's see how many done, ready passports in the basements of police stations in Serbia? For what? Because Serbian citizens have no interest in going to take over passports. They ran, they thought it meant something. However, when they realized that it didn't really mean anything, they didn't need these passports; they made them, and there they were, standing in the basements, the officers were curious about them in police stations. That's what you've achieved with your foreign policy. Today they're writing a newspaper, and last night it was in the electronic media, that false asylum seekers are questioning the visa-free regime with Belgium. Among other things, it is said that more asylum requirements are coming from Serbia than from Somalia. Of course, this asylum, and in this case as in February, is being used well, and this is again a reflection of Serbia's foreign policy, by opening a hotspot in southern Serbia, in Bujanovac and Presevo, in the Rasko area, Vojvodina, etc. This has to do with both this agenda and Serbia's foreign policy at all. But here Mirko Cvetkovic explained that "a large number of Serbian citizens seeking asylum will not endanger the visa-free regime because they are not seeking asylum for political but economic reasons". That's what we've been telling you and what we've been telling you. Serbian citizens can travel, they can travel to these three countries that we are talking about today, as they can in almost all EU countries without a visa, but they can go as tourists, they can go on a limited visit, but they can't get what they expected, what you lied about. You told Serbian citizens all the time – when we go to the white Schengen list everyone will be able to go there and live there, stay, work, to live better. I can't, and the citizens know it today. Unfortunately, Serbia can't live either, because there are more and more cancellations in Serbia, more and more people on the verge of existence. We warn the government of the Republic of Serbia, we warn the regime to stop doing services to someone outside Serbia. Let it do services for the citizens of Serbia, allow normal conditions for the lives of Serbian citizens, and then everyone will travel where they travel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45545	Seventeen minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Dear People's MPs, I have not read the script notice that, in accordance with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, until the opening of a joint single search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, were submitted only by the SRS Parliamentary Group and that Ms Verica Radeta was the first to be registered according to order. The second is Mr. Dragan Stevanovic, whom I give my word to. Here you go. After him, he has the word Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, Ms. Jovanovic, so you, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use what you, Mr. Novakovic, told me in an off-the-book conversation, which is that in principle, debate is being held in the Assembly, not dialogue. I agree with you completely and what you have told me especially I will use now in this address to Members and the public. I would not want anything I say to be understood as a cause for dialogue with one of the ruling majority MPs who spoke here today and who in principle expressed views that were more supportive, representation, or what to call it, some other or third countries, and not the states in whose parliament he was sitting, whose government he supported and which is, in some way, why he represents, and what he's saying, the official policy and attitudes of the state. Also, we are glad to have recognised the views of the Serbian Radical Party in two-thirds of his story. In that context, I am now asking you, gentlemen of power, what is wrong with the states of Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia and all those you have counted? But when you call, without measure, to those states, come on, boast, as a representative of the government, a trade balance with those states in the period in which you are in power. How can you not measure? Use everything and everything to make some of your political interest, no matter how big it is, present or defend it here. The government boasted that after twenty years, for the first time, the Serbian economy went to an economy fair in Algeria. Who's to blame for that? Is it the SRS? It is your fault that you support the government and who did not listen to the Serbian Radical Party, which has been telling you for ten or twenty years, where this country should find economic interest. You then go out and say, 51% of exports go to the EU, the rest are CEFTA countries, around us, 20% waste on everything else. Then the SRS asks you – and how many total exports to these countries participate in GDP, and you say, heads down – 19%. Now you're asking us questions about what's wrong with these states. What do they have to do with Turkey? They're not Turkey, they're Algeria, Morocco, Libya, Iraq, Iran, which we really did build. We're asking you, why aren't we downstairs today? We're not, because, Mr. Omeragic, you support a government that has completely different political ambitions, which this world doesn't care about, which the diplomatic and consular representations have put out in two-thirds of the countries that you've listed. We ask them – why is that? But you support that government. Thanks to your voices, this gentleman is sitting in that government. Don't ask us these questions and don't bring into the same level of agreement with Brazil and Turkey. We advocate that Serbia intensifys its relations with Brazil, that much of what has been established in Brazil is being transferred here because the models of economic, social protection and everything else there have proved to be effective and successful. We ask you, why isn't it here? There are answers, not here. And don't match their interests with Turkey's interests in the Balkans. Their political interests are not the same. Tell a simple answer to these people who listen and watch, why is the "South Stream" late? What is the main obstructive element in the implementation of this project? Turkey, as an exponent of America, for oil, and you know it well. What conditions have been set for a project of only $30 million for the realisation of travel infrastructure in the Raška area? They will give performers, they will set a special contract with what kind of interest will be, etc. They set out what our infrastructure priorities are, not the state of Serbia! In our relations with Turkey, gentlemen of the ruling majority, you are the problem, you who do not have and do not know the limits of serviality, flexibility and leniency. The fact that at this point your party and political interest has been identified with Turkish is another problem. There's an objective problem in you. We don't need Turkey for a friend, we need Turkey for a partner. When someone treats you and sees you as a partner, you're on the same level. I don't need Turks to help, they need to help us. Gentlemen, to 50m euros exported to Turkey, Turkey exports 100m here. All these liberalizations will not bring us happiness or effects, it will bring them, because it will make it easier for them to improve their positive economic relations and business with us. You're the problem, because in these relationships you don't recognize the chance to raise the economy of this country. What's the relationship? What kind of relationship? What kind of diaspora are you talking about now? Who did you invite from that diaspora to come here to invest and invest? The prime minister from the government opened 30 jobs for you. That's something the minister should be ashamed of, because five hundred workers lose their jobs a day. We've experienced it as breaking news on TV. Do you know, gentlemen, that you are now going to introduce a thousand tons of hazelnuts from Turkey to the conditioning industry, which you have destroyed, we are not, from milk, and beyond? The conditor industry, which could be one of the country's carrying business branches, has put us in a position to import everything from Turkey. You put them in the position they are, on glass feet, because you liberalized and allowed everything from Turkey to come here. What did we get reciprocally? We didn't get anything. As long as you're in power, we won't get anything. While you are where you are, guided by such manners and principles, no one will recognize this partner country. Don't, gentlemen of the government, use Russia to cheer us up for relations with Turkey. We don't care what relationships they have. Never will Russia treat anyone as a servant, as you behave in relations with Turkey, the EU, Croatia, Montenegro and all others, and with the Shiptars you intend to enter into negotiations with. You're asking us, why Montenegro? Why do you support the President who supports her European path? What does the European way of Montenegro mean? It implies they take care of the demarcations, take care of their borders. Today, Montenegrins are negotiating the state borders of the Republic of Serbia with the Shiptars, who have nothing to do with Serbia, who are terrorists, are quasi-squatting! You ask us what we think about it, and you support a government that indirectly destroys the territorial integrity and sovereignty of this country. It's blowing the wind in your back. That's not how it works. These agreements, unfortunately, as long as this government is who it is, no economic and political effect can provide for Serbia. Do you know how many Serbian tourists were only in northern Greece this summer? There were seven hundred thousand of them. It's just north of Greece, and I'm not talking about the areas of Athens, Lefkada, Zakintos etc. Let each leave ten euros each, visa liberalisation has cost us so much this year alone with Greece. How much living money did we bring out of Serbia? Now you're asking us why we don't want to be friends with Turkey. We will. We want to be partners with everyone, but with everyone who respects the form of international law and who respects everything Serbia has the right to international law, according to international conventions, statutes, etc. There's nothing for them that can't be true for us. To close our eyes to those facts, no, we won't. You can keep your mouth shut, and you can convince us it's Saturday on Wednesday. We simply won't accept it. Therefore, do not ask us the questions you owe the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, has always said who to co-operate with and where our interest should be recognised. Don't teach us that. Find a measure that will minimise political interests here to promote and defend. Don't do this to the harm and to the self-interest of the Republic of Serbia, in a way that will destroy the dignity of this home, the home where we all sit and where we are all equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45547	The time spent since the parliamentary group's time is ten minutes and forty-five seconds. I'm sorry, I didn't understand Mr. Omeragic that he stayed and as a registered speaker on the list, so now there is, I apologize, Mr. Martinovic, a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45548	The visa-free regime with Turkey will benefit the country. He'll encourage our trade. We believe tourists from Turkey will come to us in a much larger number. As for the comments on how far we go to the sea in Greece or Turkey, the Bosniak List has just advocated going to the sea in Serbia-Montenegro, but the great force has recognised Montenegro, so we no longer have to, as far as it goes. As for the South Stream, let me inform you, this agreement... (President: I apologize, Mr. Omeragic, did you answer the line or speak?) ) No, I didn't, but it's very important because that's what Turkey is involved in. (President: Not to read again what is on the agenda and to warn you of the obligation under Article 106) Okay. The theme, I mentioned, and Brazil, and all the agreements that were supported by the Bosniak List in this House, and an agreement with Russia, an agreement with China, an agreement with most of the countries with which our foreign policy has assessed that we should develop relations; the agreement we have reached and ratified in this House, related to $30 million for the reconstruction of the roads in Serbia, the concrete relation of Tutin - Novi Pazar - Sjenica. If you read the agreement that we have with China, gentlemen dear, and this bridge that will be made, these days it has begun, the project documentation ends, you will see that the Chinese firm has received the job. To remind you, the reconstruction of the railway, the Russian government gave credit; here we listened to Mr. Medvedev, I applauded him on behalf of the Bosniak List, welcomed the loan that Medvedev promised us. (President: I am sorry, but I must remind you again, neither Russia nor China nor relations with them are on the agenda, but agreements with Turkey, Azerbaijan and Brazil on the mutual regulation of visa regimes. Mr. Chairman, it may look like a replica, but that's why I signed up to speak. They just mentioned it, I was going to talk about it, but no one interrupted them when they mentioned these agreements. Therefore, the rule applicable to those who have mentioned must apply to the speaker who reminds them that they have spoken of it. Lawyers like to say that – audience eth alter pars. My colleague Martinovic knows that. I mentioned it because it's a practice, if someone gives you credit, it's so-called. Related arrangements: that's why the Turkish firm is doing this, because it gave us credit; that's why the Russian firm deals with railways in Serbia, because Russia gave us credit; China gave us credit, so the Chinese firm makes that bridge from Zemun. Therefore, these are known arrangements. As far as the visa-free regime is concerned, the Bosniak List considers it essential that this agreement works as soon as possible. It will allow our citizens first to enter Turkey more easily and open up a market of 70 million people to our citizens. If we take the Turkophone countries, which have more than fifty-six million inhabitants, we open up an even wider market. It is our job as a country to raise our economic capacity, to develop our economy. Speaking of Turkey's economy, I just wanted to talk to you about who we're getting into this agreement with and that's the interest of the Serbian state. The Republic of Turkey has no advocates here, there are Serbian citizens who want to co-operate with both Russia and China, and Madagascar, Brazil and everyone else. I never spoke in this House when Mr. Medvedev or anyone else, I applauded as you, welcomed all the agreements with Russia and anyone, so I don't think it's correct to say that the Republic of Turkey has advocates here. I have another reason, and that is to speak as president of the parliamentary group of friendships with Turkey. In this capacity, as a representative of the Serbian parliament, I was obliged to inform myself what Turkey is today in economic terms, what Turkey is today in diplomatic terms and what Turkey is in the Balkans. I think it would be bad for the Serbian parliament to have the president of one parliamentary group, without him knowing all this information and not working to develop good relations with the country and having the chairman of such a group. As president of this group, I have advocated that this agreement be reached as soon as possible. It was these days that we had a business Turkish-Serbian forum, where we heard our businessmen, that we heard in the last four years that our businessmen were asking our government and our parliament to get to that visa-free regime as soon as possible, to facilitate their economic communication with Turkey. Serbian citizens have an interest in getting as many businessmen into Serbia as possible. Are those from Australia, from America, from England, from South Africa, from Algeria, Serbian citizens really not interested much, because money, investments have no color, no smell. Investments open jobs. That's why I mentioned that the Republic of Turkey invested $25,000 outside Turkey last year. Why don't we have anything in that $25,000? It is the Serbian citizens who expect the 25,000,000,000 to be a few billion in the future in our country. Because if Turkey today has nearly 30,000 employees in 1,500 companies working in Bulgaria and Romania, the question arises that Turkey was in Romania and Bulgaria 500 years ago, and there are 30,000 jobs for Bulgarians and Romanians? I agree with my colleague that the fact is that we're taking pictures from 30 new jobs. That is precisely what confirms my discussion that we should take pictures from 30,000 new jobs, and help investors from Russia and Serbia. Not to take pictures, but to work and to have investments that will employ our citizens, because we are in a very difficult economic situation. We believe this visa-free regime will be a good message, as Serbian businessmen who are working with Turkey today have told me and want to work in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45549	Thank you. The estimated time is up. The word has Mr. Stevanović, given the creative interpretation and width of the procedure in this topic, which is otherwise very dry. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45550	With you, Mr. Omeragic, I completely agree on some things. I would really like the Serbian sea to be official, I will recognize it forever as a Serbian sea, both in Budva and in Ulcinj and Herceg Novi; we have seas in the Gulf of Carinthia and somewhere else, but God will give us the conditions to return there sometimes. I'd like to look back on just a few things. No visa liberalisation can improve the trade in goods, it can do customs, excise, customs relations, or customs policy. But let it be that the communication of the business world, Turkish and Serbian, will advance that trade. The answers they need to give us are: why are we exporting to the market of 70 million citizens worth 50 million, and Turkey exports 100 million to the market of seven million citizens? That's the question. We're looking for an answer to something like that. There is no need to convince us that it is necessary to invest in Serbia not two, not three billion, all twenty-five billion. Why aren't they here? Because we're an unsettled state, because we have crime and corruption, because we have unsettled property relations, because we don't have the planning documentation, because we have a lot of problems. The European Commission, not the SRS, an institution where you are leading us, under the allegations, will write what all the problems this country is facing are essentially. Because none of those investors who spent twenty-five billion cannot recognise legal and financial security in this country. I'm not happy to talk about it because it's my country, but the ambience, the business, the legal, the financial, in this country is this government. So, no Turks, no one's coming to invest. That's why we have a budget problem, a deficit that we have, because we don't have direct foreign investment. As long as you behave so unscheduledly in power, this country will be left without investment and without economic progress, nor will we be able to expect anything different and better in the perspective. It was just my idea. It's nice to receive twenty-five billion, but the national interest of this country has no price. There are limits the SRS will never cross. Turkey's political interest here is not clean and you know it well. The road of Novi Pazar - Sarajevo was made. There's a message, so let others think about why. Their interest isn't clean here, and the state has to recognize it, and it's not well-intentioned. If the state recognized it, our relationship with them would be completely different, and they would respect us much more as partners than they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45551	You have to sign up every time, Mr. Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45552	Since I was mentioned and I heard one thing from my colleague – there are roads, a traffic infrastructure that has no good intentions. Turkish firms are negotiating these days, Makjol's talks these days, and has signed a pre-negotiation agreement on building a 72km highway in Belgrade -- the southern Adriatic. That the Turkish firm Makjol enters to build roads, with bad intentions, with Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Marko Mark Markovic, who lives in Budva, White Pole or Podgorica, I think it is really problematic from the point of view of rational logic. Therefore, the fact is that "Colin", a Turkish firm, is also negotiating these days on an arrangement with the government of the Republic of Serbia, to co-operate with the "Exim Bank", which would monitor their work... You know very well, for Corridor 11, we have received funds from European funds, debt, and budgets of about a few hundred million. Turkey has emerged that with hundreds of millions of funding, it credits the Republic of Serbia, to build Corridor 10. I think we should welcome this fact. Note one, I mentioned that the state of Serbia-Montenegro had seas...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45553	Time. Thank you, Mr. Omeragic, we understand. This concludes the exchange of useful data. The intentions are quite... Please don't throw away, be kind, respect the discipline of this house. Mrs. Radeta, don't throw it away, kindly please. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45554	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not say anything new if I say that the basic principle in international relations is the principle of reciprocity. I think Serbia is the only country in the world where there are politicians who say -- well, it doesn't matter what some state has recognised as a newly created state one part of our state territory, what does that have to do with us economic and financial co-operation with that state? I doubt that's the kind of attitude France would have if someone occupied her and confessed to her as an independent state of Corsica. I doubt that's the kind of attitude Germany would have had for someone to occupy her and confess to her as an independent state of Bavaria, or for the United Kingdom to take away Wells from her. There are a lot of politicians in Serbia, and it's practically a mainstream in the ruling coalition's political thoughts -- it doesn't matter that we are being violated by sovereignty and territorial integrity, we with this country need to establish relations as if nothing has happened. Now the question is, what's the cost of this collaboration? I am sorry that only Mr. Omeragic was involved in the debate on these agreements in front of the ruling coalition. I do not want to underestimate Mr Omeragic as an incompetent talker at all, but I think this is a question for a party leading in the ruling coalition, which should have really given some important answers, not only to the Serbian Radical Party, but to all citizens of Serbia. So there is nothing disputed in the desire to co-operate with a state on the economic agenda, but a question arises which is the political price of the co-operation. I must also remind Mr Omeragic and the ruling coalition MPs who will vote to ratify the agreement with Turkey that Serbia and Turkey are burdened by numerous events from our long past. I don't want to talk about it. There's something much more important. I don't know if you're familiar with it, Mr. Omeragic and you gentlemen from the ruling coalition, from other political parties, that eleven Turkish planes participated in NATO aggression in SRJ in 1999. For the SRS, it's not insignificant information. The question arises, why does Turkey insist on investing economically only in certain parts of Serbia? Why the Turkish interest in investing in the Raška region and how problems in the Raška area occurred after it was signed so-called. The Istanbul Declaration, even after Boris Tadic, without asking the citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, put the minority Republic of Serbia under Turkey's international protectorate and chose Turkey to protect our political and economic interests towards third countries? These are some very interesting questions, to which we have not received any answers so far. It's not a problem in Turkey, it's a problem in us. We had a debate yesterday about Serbia's biggest problem being hooligans and so on. Cheerleading group. I am not reducing the importance of the problem the state of Serbia has when it comes to these things. Absolutely, no one in the SRS justifies any form of political or physical violence, we have always been against it, but I am taking this opportunity to remind Mr Omeragic, with whom we are today having a very lively and reasoned debate, both on his part and on our part, and MPs from the ruling coalition, above all MPs of the Democratic Party, on a document that is very important for the ruling coalition. It is the European Commission's 2010 report on Serbia. It's just amazing, when you take that report, you won't find it on any page that the key problem of the Serbian state is the rampage of fans. There they are apostrophe, if I understand correctly, three things that prevent Serbia's rapid integration into the EU. On the one hand, a high degree of corruption. We are one of the most corrupt countries in the world, and on this plan all DOS authorities have failed their exam since 2000. Another problem is judicial reform, which apparently did not give any positive effects. The courts are overloaded. The salaries of the court's administrative staff are miserable and this is the general strike. The courts are ineffective, not to talk about being under a lot of political pressure. The third problem in the European Commission's report is that the government in Serbia has not passed a law on the restitution of property. The Serbian Radical Party is against the restitution of the property, because we believe it is both in political and economic terms a harmful move. I'm telling you all of this to show you that this fama that has been circulating with Serbia for 11 days, how cheerleading groups are the main problem in the state of Serbia, is simply not true. The state of Serbia faces much bigger problems, which the government is silent about. We're already the 11th day under heavy media artillery. Everything in the state of Serbia is great, everything extra works out, we don't have any problems yet, we're still kind of dealing with the question of whether there's going to be a red-star derby between the Red Star and Partizan and the state of Serbia going to flow honey and milk, but that's not the case. It would be good if that were the case, but, unfortunately for both yours and ours, that's not the case. I'd like to go back a little bit to what Mr. Ugljanin said, that we should open ourselves up to the world. You know, the great English philosopher Francis Bekon said a brilliant thought about medieval metaphysics and said: “Medium-aged metaphysics was a great system of ideas, magnificent, very deep, but that system has only one problem -- it doesn't give any practical results. “ The same can be said of DOS policy since 2000. It's all great, co-operation with the world, a step forward, visa liberalisation, the SAA, white Schengen, but, gentlemen, when you draw a line below all that, in both political and economic terms, Serbia has nothing but damage. Give me one country, the EU's leading country that is friendly to Serbia today. Of course, if we exclude these sweet-talking statements that are made in front of TV cameras, how we are the leader in the region, like, they provide both hands for co-operation, etc. But I don't see that the state of Serbia is any better than those statements. Not to mention the majority, in fact, that two-thirds of EU members have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, that we have a problem in the Rasko area. He hasn't shown up since yesterday, of course, but he's escalated these days. Stories about Serbia entering the EU as soon as we tighten this criminal law and take out these cheerleading groups and individual NGOs, we enter the EU immediately tomorrow, simply, Mr Omeragic, not true. As for one also important problem, which the government in Serbia is silent about, the EU is changing some key views, which you believe represent its system of values. I don't know if you've heard, in fact, you've probably heard, since it was news on Sunday, when Mrs. Angela Merkel in Germany spoke to her party's youth, she said something... If someone from the SRS had said that or, God forbid, from another opposition party, he would have been declared a clerofashist. The woman is dead cold, as our people would say - there's no way anyone can come as an immigrant to the Federal Republic of Germany if they don't speak German anymore. She openly admitted that the concept of a multicultural German and multicultural Europe had failed. Why am I telling you all this? Because the member states of the European Union are obviously beginning to think exclusively about their interests, both politically and economically. In the European Union, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, there is no altruism, there is no solidarity, there is no love, there is no idealism, there is a pure and naked interest. It may be selfish, it may not be nice, it's not pleasant, but it is. The question now arises if the leading EU member states take care of their own interests, why is this not done by the state of Serbia? How is it possible that someone can vote for ratification of any agreement with a state that not only formally recognised Kosovo and Metohija, but affirmed that so-called. Kosovo independence in international relations?- I'm sorry. Turkey has practically taken it upon itself to be someone who will affirm the newly established republic of Kosovo. Is that a problem for you? It is for the Serbian Radical Party. If we don't appreciate our interests, both political and economic, I'm sorry, who's going to consider them? Absolutely no one. Mr. Omeragic, in his desire to argue his views, called for, for example, the Russian Federation. I'm sorry, I don't find that very logical. Montenegro was not an autonomous province of the Republic of Serbia, but was one of the federal units, first in the SRJ, then in the SCG state community. Kosovo and Metohija are still, according to the RS Constitution and Resolution 1244, an autonomous province of Serbia. It has absolutely nothing to do with what happened to Montenegro with what is happening to Kosovo and Metohija. The Russian Federation has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija and no matter how much you reduce the importance of its act, it is of paramount importance to Serbia. Mr Dragan Stevanovic has shown in a very nice way, we have nothing against co-operation, in economic terms, with neither Russia nor China nor with any country outside the EU's circle. Not that we don't mind, we're absolutely in. We were also in 1991, 1995 and 2010, but the economic policy of the SRS did not change, but the economic policy of the ruling coalition changed. You realized, after twenty years, you can't win an economic match with the EU. That's why you turned to Russia and China. Because you realized that only with these countries can we achieve some economic and trade co-operation that will be positive for Serbia. Of course, those who listen to us will now ask a question – what does all this have to do with visas? It's got a lot of connections. These days, in fact, from October 10th in the Republic of Serbia, a picture was created that white Schengen visas would be immediately lifted because of wildlings in Belgrade and Genoa and that some countries in the EU are seriously considering taking Serbia off the so-called white Schengen list. However, yesterday, the Republic of Serbia visited the agency news that, when it comes to visas, the problem is not fans of the Star and Partizana, but an increasing number of Serbian citizens who run headlong regardless of country, particularly in EU countries, because they do not see their economic and social perspective in the Republic of Serbia. This is a problem to be discussed by the Serbian parliament, not that the main issue in Serbia will be whether we will ban "the Face" and whether we will ban "Alcatraz". By the way, Alcatraz is hardly a ban because it is not registered. It's just talking about how those who talk about it absolutely don't know matter. So, the state of Serbia, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, has some much, much more serious problems than those of the "South" or those of the "north" than this or that cheerleading group, but you do not face these problems, you are running away from these problems. It seems absurd, but it is true: if not for these and these, no matter what we think of it, the European Commission, it is hard for anyone in the domestic media to talk about what are the essential problems of Serbia. But somehow the European Union, as much as you're courting it, no matter how many times a day you say you're for the EU, doesn't miss a chance for you big Europeans to slap a hot slap. It would probably suit you if every report by the European Commission said that the main obstacles on Serbia's path to the EU are Ratko Mladic, Goran Hadzic, Alcatraz, Ultra Boys, Face, Serbian Dvori etc., but there is no such thing. It's about corruption, inefficient justice, that many, to God independent, institutions don't work, that you disabling them, etc. These are actually the real problems the state of Serbia faces. I'm finishing up, so my colleagues will have plenty of time to say something about this agenda point. So we support ratification of the agreement with all those countries that are friendly to us, which Serbia sees as an equal partner in international relations, but we cannot support ratification of the agreement with Turkey because Turkey shows from day to day that it is not essentially friendly to Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija have recognised and does not respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. This does not mean that we hate Turkey, but that we love Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45555	Thank you. The word is Miss Jovanovic Natasa.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45556	Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within these ratifications of agreements that are on the agenda today, I am going to potential one that my colleagues have not so far; they have mentioned it, of course, by making comparisons with some of those I will mention, as is the one with Turkey. I will speak, because of you fellow Members of the People's Parliament and for the entire Serbian public, and above all because of the friendly Federative Republic of Brazil, about the agreement with Brazil. On June 20th of this year, two foreign ministers signed an agreement to lift visas for citizens of Brazil coming to Serbia, and that's great news for Brazil because of the facts... Today, I learned that two million Brazilians visit Europe every year as tourists. So a couple went on their marriage trip to Serbia a few days ago. They thought, when they read a few months ago in the Brazilian press, that this agreement had been ratified, and when they came to the Surcin airport, of course, they had some unpleasantness because it wasn't done. Today will be a great day to improve our two countries' relations. Here, when you think of Brazil, we all think of summer, beaches, carnivals in Rio, good football, Pelea, Clea, etc. However, as responsible people, we today have to make Serbian citizens, and the SRS has been potential for many years, to learn about the possibilities of intensive economic and economic co-operation, primarily political, with large Brazil; they call it the "South American giant", there are over 200 million inhabitants. It is a country that defends Serbia's interests in that part of the continent, advocates respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country and, unfortunately, a country with which we do not have almost any economic co-operation, so last year exports from Serbia to Brazil were only $700,000. Can you imagine that's less than what it costs one of these agencies whose production you've done ten years ago? When we summary, we see that our sports ambassador, Dejan – Rambo Petkovic, is Serbia's best "export product" in Brazil. Like Brazil's best "export product" in Serbia, Cleo, who recently won Serbian citizenship and said he wants to play and defend the colors of our team. Why is that? Well, because of the unseriousness and service of the state and above all, and this is what Mr. Martinović was talking about today, as well as Mr. Krasic at the beginning of this debate, because of the policy of conditioning, blackmail by America and the Western forces, which you are unspeakably executing. On the other hand, because Brazil has one of the largest expansions of the economy in the world, it is now being kidnapped in a strategic partnership by both Washington and Brussels. We have been informed that this blackmailer delegation, led by Jaeger, has travelled from the International Monetary Fund to Serbia. He said a colleague of Radet earlier, he's going to start negotiations on Monday, but I guess these are the preparatory stages, to look at, before the budget rebalance, all the items, all the items, and when they come to you, Mr. Ugljanin (well, you're the minister without a portfolio, but I guess they ask you something there), when they come to the government and they say, "This can't, can't, can't tell you exactly what we can spend and how much, how much, you're going to give to the pensioners, these poor 5,000 dinars, as if that's the biggest spectacle that could have happened. And you promised them 75% of the average profit, that it would be the pension level, so you cheated on them in May of 2008 and fraud came to power. But when we talk about a friendly country in Brazil, today I want to promote, first of all, the policy of the SRS, which is the only way Serbia can recover and exit from the deep economic and political crisis, which is intensive co-operation with the BRIK countries (meaning Brazil, Russia, India and China); one of the carriers is Brazil. Brazil is not only a country that has a vast people, but is also in territorial terms the fifth, on an entire planet Earth, a country of greatness. What is most important is the statement given by his Excellency Dante Coeljo de Lima on 30 May of this year, meaning the authorised ambassador of the Federation Republic of Brazil to Serbia, a friend of the Serbian people, I am free to say our SRS, who said that Serbia is not using at all the potential that Brazil today has as a leading expansion economic power, if you will and politically, in the world. This data on poor $700,000 exports is only one in a row of failures, and when I tell you that Brazil has 240,000,000 foreign exchange reserves, which are growing more and more every day and Brazil is borrowing money to the International Monetary Fund, so that, on the other hand, Serbia is borrowing itself and hugging itself under a sharp and inexorable Jaeger stick and the IMF, then every normal wonders where the reason lies, where the logic is. Why don't we get money and cooperate with those who are our sincere friends, who defend us everywhere, who advocate the UN for respect for our country's territorial sovereignty and integrity? Because on October 5th, you were brought to power by the automatic rifles and by the coup funded by the American administration to bring America and the Western forces, and Brazil was always on the stand, as well as all the friendly countries of this world, that we ourselves must regulate our relations and respect the politics of everyone else. Unlike Washington, unlike the European Union, which takes away Kosovo and Metohija, which induces such processes as the trendy Turkish investment only in the old Raska area, Brazil and other countries that respect the UN Charter and international law always see respect for sovereignty, respect for international law and good diplomatic relations as the key to every solution. I don't know what you think... This morning, we heard Boris Tadic, who is the creator of the overall policy, who has taken over all the power in Serbia, who is the unimpeached ruler of everything, who said we will start, and he has no mandate to do so, any technical negotiations with the Cypriot side from Pristina. What technical negotiations? What should we talk about when the status issue is not resolved? That is, it was settled under the Constitution of our country; he swore here, took an oath that is binding under the Constitution for the president of Serbia. On the other hand, he says he will negotiate, for starters, on resolving the missing persons issue. Here, Mr. Veljko Odalovic, who is the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, is the chairman of the Commission for Missing Persons, so let him tell the National Assembly why we do not get that report, or at least the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, as these issues are resolved. The 400 Serb corpses most beastly killed in 1999 and after 2000 in Kosovo and Metohija, whose tired bodies remain in Pristina, have not been resolved. Why didn't Dick Marty, the rapporteur of the Council of Europe, file a report today and give him a mandate two years ago? It is precisely because of pressure from large forces, primarily from EU countries, and two-thirds of them have recognised that Shiptarian creation. It is amazing that this government has no hearing and that it does not want to hear the voice and suggestion not only of us as opposition, but of us who truly see the torment of the people. I know that there are those here, said Cedomir Jovanovic yesterday, who are busy digging wells, making a villa on the hill, on Vidic, etc., or those who are in close contact with tycoons and criminals, so what do they care about, sitting in cars (and Milutin Mrkonjic said, it was even a scene and impression of the week of the same-name show, that someone had to wait there for how many hours), driving expensive cars, limos, walking, not seeing people's torment. But, you know, when I or my present colleagues or one of my colleagues goes to the market in Belgrade, in our city where we live, we experience that people are opening our wallets, as happened to me in Kragujevac at Krstovdan this year, that a time-old Kragujevchanka with tears in her eyes shows that there are only 150 dinars in the notebook, and she lives off that miserable pension she has to pay for expensive drugs, etc. We must import everything into Serbia because our factories have been destroyed and destroyed. The ones they do... This is the exact information, and you, Mr. Novakovic, and all the people's MPs of the Union's employers of Serbia's brochure; see the table "Technological backlog of Serbia", not to be – find some radicals that are not correct. They sent people to the MPs. I believe that you from the Democratic Party don't look at it, you thought there were some colorful sides, so you don't care, but table 7 says well: the youngest machine in the factory in Serbia... Mr. Novakovic, you were the president of the Privatisation Committee, you know how the robbery ran, and from Vlahovic further. He knows Mr. Novakovic because he chaired the Committee, where people came, until someone told you, Mr. Novakovic... (President: It is true, but the topic is not privatisation. You're a smart man, you're not for free who you are. You will realize that the youngest machine in Serbia since 1990 is for the production of anything and the oldest in 1971. Unlike us, Brazil, their economy minister said, not that it must stabilise economic policy, but rather fear, he says, overheating. People don't know what to do with such capital and expansion of their economy. Those sugar cane (which is usually the most massive job Brazilians do) convert to ethanol, which is a substitute for gasoline. The energy, according to his Excellency, is something that can also be a good product for Serbia. And we have a lot to take out there, as far as our natural and economic resources are concerned, but who to work at, what factories, when there are keys and locks everywhere, as this one who escaped long ago and when people... They're laughing at my colleagues, because it's amazing, but I always have to remember everything. Mr. Novakovic, you know very well that I must remind you of what you are deliberately forgetting. As for this co-operation, in addition to welcoming what is happening today with the ratification of the agreement with Brazil, we think that our country should return to a part of the story of Mr. Stevanović and Mr. Martinovic, to induce processes concerning ratification and the rapid abolition of the visa regime for our citizens, for example, when it comes to Egypt. Egypt is a friendly country and we should encourage our citizens to go where they welcome us, where prices are affordable for our people, where with a smile they will tell us that we are welcome in this friendly country. Why don't we speed up the process? Because Egypt is the country that has been chairing the non-classified over the last three years, and you remember the non-classified when we have a vote in the UN General Assembly on the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. When it was the last Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, Tadic texted Jeremic and we experienced a debacle and disaster. It's better that he didn't go there at all, and it's better that nothing happened in the congregation at all than what happened to us. In any case, the only way for our country to recover, which is the SRS programming, is to co-operate with BRIK countries, where Brazil is one of the leading forces, to have stability in every sense and to try to attract as much foreign investment as possible from our friends. If our contribution is to attract at least a few hundred thousand Brazilian citizens in due time to come as tourists to our beautiful Serbia or to invest, the ratification of this agreement is certainly a good start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45557	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The remaining time is eight minutes and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45558	Mr. Novakovic, I wanted to criticise you for this application of the Rules of Procedure, so now I will not criticise you that I would not get a warning, but I am uncomfortable with you interrupting Bajru Omeragic as he talks about this subject. The discussion, thanks to Bajra, is going exactly the right time, we are getting complete information on what the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia is. Does anyone like it, if someone doesn't like it, thanks to Bajra and thanks to us Serbian citizens hear some information and can figure out what's true. Of course, I have an obligation, as a member of the SRS, to promote the views of my party and to influence that Bajra's family votes for the SRS, Mr. Ugljanin, those people in Subotica, those in Presevo, Bujanovac, etc. Why? Because I'm telling the truth. Now, visa-free or bullshit regime? The visa-free regime means the peak of friendship between states, but we now have a lame regime, because we don't see the principle. There is no principle here to govern power in Serbia. When it comes to Turkey, you have heard for yourself, the government has responded about a declaration concerning Armenia -- we will not put it on the agenda, we are giving priority to the economic interests of the Republic of Serbia. So, human rights, a moral aspect, a lacmus question for the principle of a state, we step on it all, that's what the government of the Republic of Serbia said. I don't mind what they said, but I want to make it possible for all Serbian citizens to hear what the Government of the Republic of Serbia said. The government of the Republic of Serbia has said exactly what Bajro, as the only brave representative of the parliamentary majority, has come out to say. A nice man says – businessmen ask for visas to be abolished, because if there are visas businessmen will not come to us to cooperate. The visa costs ten euros. What kind of businessman depends on ten euros, so we're clear. You say they're investing everywhere. I agree. I wish Serbia could invest anywhere. I have nothing against the Republic of Turkey and the policy it leads to on the internal and external agenda, except in the part where it leads politics towards the Republic of Serbia. Why? Their policy towards the Republic of Serbia is contrary to the constitutional principles of the Republic of Serbia. We have all sworn allegiance to the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and must first be our Constitution. One of these first things is Kosovo and Metohija, an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and I represent it. That's why no one is attacking me, because if someone attacked me because of this attitude, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia would attack. Now the question is – what is the priority? Indisputable, Boris Tadic, as a figure of the SAA, Serbia's foreign policy, says – we give an advantage to the economy. He's clear. Since he says we are giving priority to the economy, we will also bring a declaration about Srebrenica, establish friendly relations, turbo friendly relations with all states that have recognised an independent Kosovo. That's the message he's sending. We have the right to object against that message. We are for co-operation, we are for friendship, we are for everything, but to the extent that does not endanger our interests and our constitutional order. My friend Biro's right, I have to tell you. Now we need to treat Turkey like this, and what do we do with those powerful states that they have confessed, which we can't even mention? Biro, you're absolutely right. (President: Please do not speak directly. I didn't say anything wrong. Please don't. (Chairman: No matter. If Bajro and Ugljanin got this right, there's no need for you to worry. They understand what I'm saying very well. I speak in principle. The same policy we Serbian radicals represent not only towards Turkey, but also towards the United States. Who else? Both according to France and Afghanistan and Albania, and according to Great Britain, and according to Germany, Denmark, Italy, Luxembourg, not to order up to 70; the last state to recognise independent Kosovo is Honduras, September 3rd 2010. We think, and since you understand yourself in traffic lights, whether it's red, yellow, blue, green, any line, that you have to put on a clear line. Whoever makes it possible to hijack our territory doesn't deserve to be in the same legal position as a country that's friendly to us. That's what Miss Jovanovic was talking about, that's the BRIK. However, we can also say BRIKS, with "S", with Serbia in the end. Now, don't change the subject. For the sake of the public, I must say, as far as Mr Ugljanin and the SRS' party are concerned, we had an almost identical political position when it came to breaking up the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Both you and I were against the independence of Montenegro. Why? We don't want to tear this place apart by order anymore. Some others were, we know who... But we're going with clean bills, to make it clear that we have nothing against anyone, we're just asking that what is undoubtedly a national, economic, economic and any other interest of this people living in this space be respected. It's one minimum that we don't go under, and we represent it in principle, and when it comes to the United States and everyone else who clearly says by their policies that they want to tear this place apart. Every break-up of this space is causing some conflict, and we don't want those conflicts, to be honest. Why do we need conflict? They've divided us too much, torn us apart. We're looking for a normal internal policy that will impose our position on foreign partners. It's not always easy. It may not always be even feasible, but there has to be an attitude here, a unique attitude. Do you have red lines? We've got red lines. Let's respect those red lines, maximum respect for those red lines. The agreement with Turkey came here in this package. He could have been with another country in this arrangement of states that recognised an independent Kosovo. The same discussion would be, in principle. Otherwise, as far as the Turkish state's policy is concerned, they find the best interests of their own. They have good relations with Russia. One sentence only, Mr. Novakovic. They're bound by a military deadline. At a large number of construction sites in Russia where Turkish companies perform works by soldiers. The Turks have made a good conclusion - what to sit in my barracks, eat my food, spend me, when I can hire him there and make at least a little money. It's their policy. I am not involved in their policy and no one has the right to interfere in their policy, but I am obliged, as a representative of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to protect the interests of all citizens, and they are defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-21-0.u45559	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. (National MP Bajram Omeragic throws out of place. In no word, nor did Mr Krasic misunderstood you, nor... Even affirmatively spoke Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Krasic. Therefore, I estimate there is no reason for replication. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word (please do not throw) to the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint single search on the draft laws under points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda. I'll resume tomorrow, October 22nd, Friday, 10:00 p.m. Thank you for your cooperation, and I'll see you later.
