ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41189	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the sittings. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that there are working conditions. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request information or an explanation in accordance with Article 235? Mr Vladimir Milentijevic, who was authorised on behalf of his parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia has clearly and loudly warned the President of the Republic of Serbia, that the government of the Republic of Serbia would not accept the Eulex mission, because we were convinced that it would not be statusally neutral and would implement Ahtisaari's plan. In particular, we insisted because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not make such a decision. We were right. Today, this is confirmed on the ground, regardless of the tobacco signals from Brussels, that the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija is status neutral. With the support of the Eulex mission, these days, the illegal institutions of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo are further harassing and scaring citizens of Serbian nationality across the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija, especially in the southern Serbian province. What exactly is this about? These are calls for the preliminary procedure of the Kosovo Special Prosecutor's Office, which these days are trying to hand over politicians in northern Kosovo and Metohija, local officials and former officials in northern Kosovo and Metohija for allegedly committed terrorism. It is disturbing and frightening that the head of the Kosovo special prosecutor's office is Isobel Arnal, Judge Eulex, and calls are made by members of the Kosovo Police Service of Serbian Nationality. There is a real danger that event actors destabilise the AP Kosovo and Metohija, especially northern Kosovo and Metohija, and apparently have an intention. I ask two questions to the President of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What will you do to keep the Eulex mission status neutral, as you have accepted it, and obviously not, to end all provocations of the self-provoking independent state of Kosovo and act exclusively under Resolution 1244 because it is only valid for the temporary management of the southern Serbian province? The second question is whether you will call on members of the Kosovo Police Service of the Serbian Nationality not to participate in such and similar provocations, because I believe they are causing us great damage and this is not in the interest of preserving Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41191	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41192	Ladies and gentlemen, I asked Nati Mesarovic whether at the time of the assassination trial on Zoran Djindjic, she had knowledge that Milan Veruovic, a member of the security guard Zoran Djindjic, had been followed by the state security service and had, if she had this knowledge, taken something to shed light on who had ordered it, which is why and whether that information might have helped to reach the background, or who was behind the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Here is what Mrs. Nata Mesarovic replied: "As I am not a judge of the High Court and my conduct in this procedure has been completed without insight into the case files, I cannot give you the required explanation and notice." I ask the question – what was Nata Mesarovic afraid of, what is the Democratic Party afraid of and why not examine everything that is related to the murder of Zoran Djindjic? I remember when Nata Mesarovic went to read the verdict, she said, "I got the verdict." He's saying something. I don't understand, is there anyone normal who would have such facts without starting to question what lies behind Milan Veruovic being followed by the State Security Service and why not examine all the facts about it? He was followed safely to the government with Zoran Djindjic because, among other things, he was wounded in the assassination. This is the best way to say nothing has been done to shed light on the murder of Zoran Djindjic. I am amazed that the Democratic Party, after so many years, not only won't do anything, but obviously hides some facts that might help bring about the background of Zoran Djindjic's murder. I now understand why the Committee on Defence and Security was prevented from obtaining information from the BIA on those three actions ("Shumadia", "The Sword", "Kaktus", which were against the laws, which included many persons who were followed, persons from the underground, current political authorities, former political authorities. It's obvious that someone who ordered these actions was someone who had the need to track these people, the information they got for something he was using. We could probably at least partially get to know what was done in those actions, but obviously DS doesn't want that to happen. You must ask one basic question – was Zoran Djindjic or Zoran Djindjic, Prime Minister, killed? That's a serious question. You have one more thing: when you look at the killings of the president of the state, the president of the government is not such a simple thing; years go by, and the perpetrators don't reveal themselves, anywhere in the world, and here. It is obvious that someone is behind this murder, but that the state of Serbia, headed by the Democratic Party, has neither the strength nor the desire to definitely shed light on all these circumstances. I hope that these new facts in some of the Democratic Party will still raise certain questions, curiosity and ask for further information and finally be calm when it comes to this, let's see what's going on. Maybe there's nothing behind this, maybe these are just insinuations, but I still don't think we can get over this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41193	I would just like to tell you that Mrs. Mesarovic is very responsible for informing you about this... (Dear Todorovic, from the place: When they let you go before, for God's sake, my people.) )......................................................................................................... that you actually need to speak to the institution about the issues that you are interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41194	I will, I'll look into the files.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41195	It's a senior court. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41196	Madam President, I am speaking to you and I ask you, indeed, to give me an answer to the question of whether the institution for asking parliamentary questions is something that can be misused in the way this is being misused. Please, is this where the parliamentary questions are asked to the institutions so that MPs, the National Assembly, as well as citizens of Serbia get answers to questions that are of general interest, or is this institute being misused in the most cruel way possible by bringing up falseness and accusing political opponents? So I just don't think it's allowed, that it wasn't the intention of those who made this institute that it was misused in the way it was abused. So if someone in such a brutal way accuses the Democratic Party, who lost its president and first democratically elected Prime Minister, and if the Democratic Party is accused, which was at the time when someone else was in power and in all ways tried to stop the trial for the murder of Zoran Djindjic... Not to remind myself of all the ways it was tried to stop, not only to cover up the responsibility and the political background of that murder, but to even direct perpetrators amnesty. Not to remind of how the first accused was admitted to the Government of the Republic of Serbia; that I do not recall how some announced that there would be a bloody spring and then fled to The Hague; that I do not remind them that they wanted to abolish the Special Prosecutor's Office, that they were pressuring the Special Prosecutor's Office; that I do not remind many things about the process. Now, at a time when there is a serious deal with organised crime and judicial reform, which I am sure will lead to, that there will also be a political background for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, it is precisely those who need to carry out that reform. Now the attack on Nata Mesarovic, who is president of the High Council of the judiciary and whose primary task is very risky in this country because there are not only criminals and organised crime, there are also political groups that support this organised crime and are now looking for ways to attack those who carry out judicial reform by creating conditions in Serbia to deal with organised crime, trying to actually prevent the state and its institutions from winning... Once again, please, this isn't the first time I've had to react the same way. This isn't the first time, this is happening again. This institute is not designed to make false accusations and to blame for serious crimes on those who were looking forward to the crime, who were celebrating it, those who announced it and those who had just fled to The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41197	Mrs Kolundzija, the Institute of Information, Article 235, is essentially not only known to MPs, but also to citizens of Serbia. They assess the attitude of individual MPs, including the institution and the institution of the Assembly in general, in both local and other elections. It makes me think that citizens still need to judge us. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, you have no right to a replica. Is there anyone else... You can't do business. You can't. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Đorđe Milicevic, Aleksandra Jankovic, Esad Judževic and Laslo Varga. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail... Let me just finish my sentence, please. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on State Audition (Statistics) by Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41198	Article 104, based on Mrs. Hope Kolundji's presentation. Mrs. Kolundjia, I didn't say this for you. I've been saying this for other members... (President: Mr. Todorovic, I can hurt the Rules of Procedure, not Mrs. Kolundzija. So, you can't, there's no reason to talk to anyone. You can talk to me. ) Please, just to finish up, it really doesn't make sense, but here, I'll talk to you. Mrs. Dejanovic, I didn't say this because of Hope Kolundzija, I said this by believing that there are people in the Democratic Party who, on the basis of all this, will think about what is really going on. I'm aware of the fact that Mrs. Kolundjia hasn't changed. She only changes parties. All it takes is for this party to be in power and not to be very distasteful.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41199	The MP, Mr. Todorovic, has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president, or the chairman, if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, and it is immediately after the injury has been done. You didn't do it and you hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I didn't punish you. Now I'm really warning you that I'm going to give you a sentence. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41200	Madam President, I really don't think respect for the Rules of Procedure is a question of negotiation. I really expect you to give a warning measure to an MP who is in the roughest way, because of the lack of argument to defend his lies that he has made, attacked someone here. It doesn't matter if it's me or anyone else. He attacked me personally, in a way that is really inadmissible in parliament. What's also inadmissible, I don't think the Rules of Procedure can be followed arbitrarily. They have to be respected every time in the harshest way to break the Rules of Procedure, that's what needs to be done. The fact that someone has no argument for lying doesn't give him the right to insult others and make up new lies to justify what he said before.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41201	Gentlemen, you have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delic, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelevic, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Stevanović, Zoran Krasic, Vlajko Senić, Lidija Dimitrijevic and Petar Jojić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Stevanović and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41202	Mrs. Dejanovic, thank you so much for giving me your word. Before I begin to explain this very important amendment, I'd just like to give a few instructions to facilitate the monitoring of what I'm about to say. The parliamentary question cannot be misused, an answer to the parliamentary question can be misused. It's the apropo thing that makes... Save yourself, Mr....
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41203	Mr. Krassic, please be logical. The institution of asking parliamentary questions can be misused. Your party colleagues often do so in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41204	Mrs. Dejanovic, does not abuse the right to ask questions anyone who asks questions, he is asking for an answer. The answer can be excessive, reasonable, unreasonable, or absent. Let's move on to the amendments. A number of amendments have been tabled to Article 1 of this proposal, and this bill has been submitted by MPs, which is good. Someone might conclude that all these amendments make their own percentage bids, so someone suggests 30%, someone's 40, someone's 50%. As far as our amendment is concerned, we've been trying not to bid, so let's do this, let's do this, let's do it, or, or, or. No, we wanted to show some even relationship on responsibility. What's this about? In the initial text of the law on the reception of people working at the State Auditing Institution, they are determined according to something which is the basis, and they were the basis of the reception of the President of the National Assembly. We are all aware that the way in which the president's receptions are determined is some political agreement, not something of a working relationship. It's got to come out of it in a way. If the State Auditing Institution is an independent and independent state body, then the reception of people working in that institution cannot be a political category. For the sake of the public, I know it's not popular, but it should be said, everyone in the National Assembly only has a status-equal position as if they're in a working relationship, and this isn't as a working relationship, but as a public function. Given that any jurisdiction is subject to tax and contribution, it is considered to be something of a working relationship. What is considered to be a working relationship cannot be the basis for something that represents a working relationship in the DRI. When determining the amount of salary of authorised auditors, the State Auditor, the State Auditor General, the High State Auditor, the Council members, the Vice-President, the Secretary, etc. It has to start with something that represents calculating the salary, because they're there in a working relationship, not in a cobajaga working relationship. If we were in a cobage working relationship, then all they're doing would be bad work. I think the greatest success of this amendment that is proposed is that the basis of the salary for the authorised auditor and the state auditor is determined in the same way as for state officials with a coefficient of 9 and a coefficient of 8. This confirmed their status as high-ranking state officials. That rank belongs to them, given the work they're doing. In the search for these relations that exist in the award of civil servants, we have submitted an amendment because we believe that the general state auditor, President of the Council, the highest hierarchy in the DRI, would have had to have a higher salary than the state auditor. How much more pay? A relatively higher responsibility. I know it's not popular to talk about government officials' salaries in Serbia, but it's incomprehensible that a state official has several times less salary than someone in the Flight Control Directorate, or in some state-owned public enterprise, or in Luttria, or at the Airport or in those public enterprises that are under bankruptcy. It would be unacceptable if authorised auditors had a lower salary than the directors of local utility companies. There are two ways: or those whose low wage is increased or those who unduly receive a large reduction. It is obvious that there is no power to reduce wages in these severed centres of power located in public enterprises, at different levels of state and government organisation. As a result of this kind of equation of responsibilities and functions carried out in an institution, the idea that the chairman of the DRI Council has 50% higher incomes than the state auditor has arisen. It seems to me that another identical amendment has been submitted, with that same percentage. But they're not amendments, especially this amendment of ours didn't come out as a kind of bid for something, because we've also submitted a second amendment, as regards receiving members of the Council and vice presidents, where we've tried to balance that relationship. We were primarily guided by the principle that that relationship that exists in other state bodies, such as the ministries, that we keep this wage ratio in the hierarchy, to be identical, because the State Auditing Institution is a state body; the Constitution is predicting, the Constitution requires the adoption of a law on that institution, it is an independent, independent state body, doing a very difficult, complicated job. We are deeply aware that even with this intervention, the status of DRI cannot be corrected, given the really limited capacity. There are both objective and subjective reasons. There's something that we can do at this point and we need to be aware of, and there's something that we can just want, but it's impossible to do in practice. And to increase the DRI to 250 or 300 employees, it is hardly possible to ensure that every year 9,000 subjects are controlled in an audit sense of the word. That's impossible. That's the situation. We should make some attempts to correct this status in order to enable this institution to finally begin to meet its constitutional obligations with regard to the revision of how the funds provided by citizens in all our budgets were spent. That's why we submitted this amendment. We wanted to improve this text. I have to, and for the sake of the promoter, these are Members of the Finance Committee who have stepped behind this proposal... The whole Finance Committee is behind this proposal, I can say that, whether it's the MPs or the opposition. I mean first of all those MPs who were at the session when this proposal was being considered; when it came to the proposal they stood behind this text. No problem is there are amendments. It's not the amendments to be submitted to degrade the promoter, it's what I have to say to everyone clearly, but to improve something, if possible. For the sake of the public, I have to draw attention, as far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, the Ministry of Finance has delivered, I think, twice as much of its opinion on this proposal, and on one working text and on this official proposal, that there is an opportunity in the budget to provide funds, to materially support this change of law and make it a more quality and efficient work of the State Auditing Institution. I have to say something about MPs, first of all. I don't understand the government's position. Why? According to the Rules of Procedure and under the Law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when the legislator is not a Government but, for example, MPs, it is mandatory to deliver that opinion to the Government, but the government is not declaring amendments. This statement by the government a few days ago, that they accept some amendment, not only is it groundless, but it is also outside the framework prescribed in communication between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They came out of that frame. Maybe it's an inexperience, maybe they did it by instinct. I don't think it obliges MPs to vote, whether the government is behind an amendment or not. Why? Because for all these amendments submitted by the Ministry of Finance, it has been timely to inform the promoter that there are funds, funds are provided and there will be no major problem. A state audit institution must reach a large double-digit number of authorised auditors, not be at the border of a single-digit and two-digit number. With a dozen people carrying that job, it's practically impossible to do something about it. Much higher expectations than the DRI in that part called coloquial control. They're not controllers. Simply, the public opinion has been prepared that they are some supreme controllers, that they are the whip of God. I would take this opportunity, given that there are few amendments and I have quite enough time to explain things that concern the DRI. First of all, I am speaking to the MPs of the parliamentary majority, but it would be good for the government's representatives to hear it. First of all, I mean the Ministry of Finance and the Department of Justice. You see, after the first unfinished report by the State Auditing Institution, again, some journalists, some writers, on someone's orders, went off with a series of texts and, of course, missed out on the subject. But an ordinary reader doesn't know they missed the subject. Why would he have to know all the details? It's simply read in the papers, it's written in the papers, people who are light-minded believe what's written. I'll tell you in particular, and I'd like to ask for a moment's attention, because it's a matter of principle. It's not about names or last names or institutions. You see, even at the time of that Bolshevik-type socialism in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, even during the time of the self-rule, there was a criminal offence in our criminal law - abuse of official office. By definition, this crime implies both damage and benefit, so an official or authorized person is responsible even when he makes use of his firm, and even when he does any damage. There's no such thing as parallel practice. Everyone here swears to go towards a Europe and some civilizational criteria. We have a paradoxical situation that some, Stanka Subotica Caneta, call it, are taking the lead in the prosecution of tobacco processing, as some call it, the abuse of the official position. No official position he had in the state, but perhaps he had some position in his company. But look, we're laughing at the whole world. The Swiss say - we can't deliver anyone for this crime because it doesn't exist. A group of MPs who proposed the DRI Act stood halfway. Why? For most of the failures, violations and disrespect of some of the provisions of the DRI Act, these actions are prescribed as a violation, there are few crimes. The question is, could there be a crime, because DRI's job isn't a matter of budget inspection. The audit is one thing, and control is something else. If we're talking about reviewing, then probably the main word that needs to stand, to be synonym about it is to examine the bonus – whether all the revenues, all the expenditures, whether it's booked and what the bonus is. Our journalists made us think of the DRI as a budget inspection. They have to change the rules. For each dinar paid out of the account of any beneficiary of the budget (or what we call public funds), internal mechanisms must be installed so that payment is impossible without several types of controls being previously carried out. Why? It's a poor idea of ex post inspection control when something's done. In addition, the budget inspection also has a big problem because when it finds that something is not purposely spent, there is no possibility that these funds will return to the budget and to the account of the user. There's no possibility, and something was a priority at some point. This is a very important topic because we have had some of our own nebulises in the past. I'll remind you of one of those big nebuloses. An indictment has been filed against Vojislav Seselj because, as vice-president of the Republic government, he signed the government's conclusion, which the government voted for, all members of the government voted for the conclusion, and the conclusion reads: "In 1999 because of the great floods... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” You remember Jagodina, etc., all of Serbia was flooded. In the Commission's account for the elemental disasters, there were not enough funds and the government relocated funds from the account that existed for Valjevo, for the recovery of those houses that were destroyed by the earthquake, which could not be used because plans, programmes, etc. were needed. So, one, as I would say, passive mass of funds is directed to resuscitate the effects of the flood, and that later, when the funds are provided, it comes back and goes on purpose. Against Vojislav Seselj, as vice-president of the government who signed the conclusion that the entire government has reached, a criminal procedure has been conducted. It wasn't until a few years later that someone was probably shaking his head a little bit, so he realized that this new, current government, every day, was forced to do so. And this government of ours is forced to react when floods occur. He can't say – please, we have a small amount of funds on our elemental accident account, because, for God's sake, no one was planning to have any big floods. Because who can plan the floods, who can plan the earthquake, who can plan the fire, who can plan some major harassing? No one can plan that. And this government is facing the problem of having to move funds from one account to another. Should we file criminal charges and charges against the Prime Minister and others? Are we supposed to file criminal charges against those taken in the Shop? If they're photographed, for a reason, they should go around, help people. They're in office. They're the first to go to a compromised area. The purpose of what I'm saying is that we need to redecorate these regulations so that these unbulkable things don't happen, so that some enemies of this country don't feed themselves, that they go with a series of texts, articles, to demean and the best intentions that exist with people in power who have to take care of these things. These are things that need to be settled. Every card for arbitrary interpretations must be thrown out. Someone there wrote a text, it's probably a book, so it doesn't matter, at the very least, but it's what the text was made of, and it's been originally declared a criminal, so now you go ahead, go over there and make a case for yourself whether you're a criminal or not. There's something about us that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. Here, I took an example for you of Canet Subotic Frog. They say abuse of official position. What kind of official position did he have? And this crime, by definition, was once Article 242, when you take comments about this member and the case law for that member, it existed to prevent public officials in socialism and socialist companies from listening to the Communist party, so in the manual and in the practice of applying Article 242 of the social enterprise director was responsible even if in some business he benefited from his company. You are now persecuting some people by this article. Why? The whole world is laughing at us. The next thing, the natural link to this law that we are talking about today – no, it's not specifically about these amendments that are proposed, but the very essence of the law – is the Law on the Budgetary System. In 2001, our tours started with the Budget System Act since 2001. That's when it's said -- we have to go with a new law, a system of new public finances is being introduced, etc. How many times have we changed that law? What does that law look like to us now? Let us also consider the Law on the financing of local self-government and take into account other laws concerning the use of public funds. Does it make a natural continent? Is that related to each other? It's not. It's settled. No consistency, no logical connection. Why is that? What's the consequence? As a result, anyone can put a notepad in a small pocket, pull out a pen and act like a big journalist or an economic analyst. We're laughing at ourselves who know little about these things. Who are Serbia's largest economic analysts? People who aren't economists. Sociologists, psychologists, electric engineers, machine engineers. What do they have to do with the economy? Or is he who was told by Vuk Draskovic, a colleague, and we were at the Faculty of Law, how are you an economist? Everyone introduces themselves as they please. What does Medojević have to do with the economy? He's an electric engineer. But he's the authority. Why? They published a newspaper. Who controls the paper? I warned you a few months ago that the mob was controlling, you smiled, now you see for yourself. Now the press has figured out who's in charge of them. We need to settle those regulations. This job has to be done with honor and honesty. Finally, to return to this amendment. Our wish wasn't to bid, our wish wasn't to court someone, but to express in percent what is the responsibility between someone who is the organizer of the job and someone who needs to carry the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41205	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senić. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 149. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution defines who can be the legislator of the law. In this case, constitutional possibility has been used and this is a fortunate circumstance that a group of fellow Members of Parliament has proposed this law. Article 149 says the proposing is obliged to consider amendments and to notify the Assembly that the amendments have been accepted. I remind you, when we had these situations with the government, it was often the case that we moved the beginning of the session to get the government's opinion. I don't think it's a problem. There is a colleague, Branko Ljiljak, who is an authorised representative of a group of MPs, and simply to hear what the promoter thinks about each of these amendments. I think it'll just make the debate easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41207	Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Ljiljak is here and will plead in case she accepts the amendment. Therefore, it cannot be declared and there is no need to plead unless it accepts the amendment. I think we understand each other. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41208	Thank you. President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I think the debate on amendments to the DRI Act has gone to that part that devalues the value of this bill. Namely, the original proposal, which was submitted by seven MPs of the ruling coalition, was an expression, I would say, real opportunities to enable at this point what was the request, first of all, the public, but also members of the DRI Council and the wishes of all of us – to pay in the DRI, which were quite dilimulative, all together to bring about a level that would enable the motivation of new young people who would find that place and that would thus expand the potential and capacity of the DRI. The less important part, but not entirely irrelevant, in this bill was the salary of members and president of the DRI Council. We have been in the Finance Committee for several months to discuss how much, as MPs at this time, we can support an increase in the salary of the president and members of the Council. The first variant, which meant almost double the salary of the one in force, received a positive opinion from the finance ministry. However, through the debate, we saw that there was no political consensus to so dramatically increase wages and then we had about two months of some attempts, talks, negotiations with members of the DRI Council. The difficult situation in all of this was the fact that there was no clear range that would determine wages already we had to solve this problem ad hoc, therefore, as a case for ourselves. I felt that the only logic that could be defended in the Assembly was that we eventually accepted some compromise proposal from members of the DRI Council. The proposal is, in fact, the result of what I have proposed in my amendment, as well as of colleagues from the SRS. So, because of the public, because of members of the DRI Council, because of the expert public who is closely following this debate, I would like to say that this amendment is not the result of any conflict within the ruling coalition. So, if the amendment fails, we will, of course, support this bill because we will certainly improve the working conditions of the DRI and without this amendment. It is only the result of one logic that we respect what the DRI was and the need to say that at this point we have done the maximum and allowed people to work under the conditions that they have practically sought and warned themselves in the future any suspicion of members of the Council, the public and all civil servants that people who do such a responsible job do not have the right conditions to work. I must say that the government's decision to adopt one of the proposed amendments has brought further confusion into this debate, and I must admit that I do not understand why the government has decided to, for example, adopt an amendment that is proposed to increase wages by 40%, and to reject the amendment of my colleagues and mine, which suggests that wages increase by 50%. Because logic suggests that it was some kind of trade, like in the market, where someone came from logic and said -- here, the proposal is 30%, these most extreme ones are asking 50%, we're going as a compromise to offer 40% and we're still going to accept the opposition party's amendment and that it all looks nice in public. I think that's where the government missed the point and I'm sorry it did. I hope that we will have the opportunity to correct this government mistake through this debate, because here, I repeat again, there is absolutely no proposal that has any party commitment or justification. The interest of all of us MPs is that the DRI as an institution should live. It will take much longer than any of us here in the congregation or in political life. It may sometimes, somewhere in some history, be noted that we, as MPs, have made a small effort by voting this law to provide the State Auditing Institution with the conditions to do its job normally, so that the scope of work will be greater this year, which will be the first subject of the revision of public enterprises. In this way, we are going to meet so much of the EU's expected questionnaire, therefore, with a high dose of optimism we expect Serbia to receive an EU questionnaire during autumn, to start answering these questions, to get EU candidate status in 2011 and to speed up our country's European integration. I think for the first time we have the opportunity to do something at least for a step ahead of what EU representatives will inevitably ask for in the coming period. I am sure that, for Serbia's speed of entry into the EU, one of the key elements (if we eliminate this political, Hague issue), will be precisely essential reforms, which include improved public finance management. One of the elements (we can ask all our colleagues from the environment, I mean countries in the environment), one of the basic parameters in which one country manages public finances, how it controls public finances, is exactly the position, role and results of the DRI work. I think we should be further concerned because we are the last country in the region to make it possible for the DRI to work, because we are the last country in the region to receive the DRI report. Today, when we talk about this law and tomorrow when we vote, we need to think about that there are a few steps that we need to make hasty to make up for all the backlogs and shortcomings we have had in the past, to wait until the fall ready and that 2011 would be the year when Serbia will formally get EU candidate status. In my opinion, this debate is, as I said, and when there was a debate in principle, beyond any party dispute, beyond any party logic or interest. This is the need of the Assembly to pass one law that would unite power and opposition, and in fact another attempt to support the State Auditing Institution. Not to the president of the institution, not to members of the Council, but to an institution that has been operating in Serbia for the past two years. It is therefore important that the public does not understand this debate on amendments as some kind of race in whether we will pay the President 220,000; other government colleagues would give it 187,000, and the government is delighted with the idea of making that salary 202,000. That's not the point. I think the point is completely different. I hope we can find a way to fully accept what was the proposal of the DRI Council itself. It won't be a problem, and I won't be disappointed if this amendment isn't adopted. Of course we'll support this law. I think this debate has only contributed to the quality of the debate on the essence of the role played by the State Auditing Institution. I agree with many of the things that my colleague Krasic said and I believe it will be a lesson to the members of the DRI Council to give us a 2009 report in a way that looks like such a serious institution, to talk about the essence, not to create some kind of media performance, which is completely distracting from the essence. Then, of course, we have high expectations of the public, and after that, as always in Serbia, a great and even greater disappointment of the same public. Once again, support for amendments to the law, the belief that we will first of all enable new, young people to find a job in the DRI and that in five or a few years it will be an institution that we will be able to be proud of, and we will be able to say that we have made a significant contribution to the start of the institution's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41209	Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41210	The Honorable Presidency, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as an authorised representative, I think it's very good that we are talking about this issue and that it's very good for the public to see that there are topics in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that MPs can discuss in a way where we all see the same objective in fact, we all have the same goal and all of this goal, which is to make one of the most important independent institutions in this country more effective. What makes me say that? Serbia is probably the only country in the environment, not to mention Europe, which only this year received the DRI report. The public needs to know what makes him significant. It is important because MPs and the public can only so judge the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Unfortunately, the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, although submitted for 2008, has not yet been a topic in this assembly. In previous years, more specifically since 2002, he hasn't even been lectured, and he's just talking about executive authority. The executive authority avoided doing what every legal person in this country had to do, which is to file a final bill for the previous year. Anyone who deals with any kind of business knows what kind of sanctions he's carrying if he doesn't hand over the final bill. The country's top employer, the state, more specifically the government, has not submitted the final budget account since 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, but unfortunately we couldn't discuss it. We could have discussed the DRI report on the final account, more specifically about about 25% of how controlled the budget users were, or the ministries. On that basis, we could see that there were certain gaps. We don't want to talk about these failures right now. It was a topic now, and there will probably be a theme in the future. What is important to us is that by increasing incomes in the DRI, we strengthen that institution. As paradoxical as that may sound, that's true. With the receipts that so far had been provided by auditors, it was impossible for anyone to seriously sign up for a competition and get a job at the DRI. What is good is that the National Assembly, that is, the MPs of the National Assembly in the Committee on Finance, took responsibility to amend and supplement the Law, i.e. to increase wages to state auditors. On the Finance Committee, we've really talked about this for months. Why did the Liberal Democratic Party not sign, or did I not sign this proposal by the ruling majority as a member of the Finance Committee? I think it's best seen from what happened on the last Finance Committee. I think we need to get the public to know that there are very few laws in the procedure right now. Surely in the coming period, if the Assembly does not work, some, in the name of the executive authority, will start again to deal with the National Assembly by saying that the unemployed are sitting here. In order for us to do anything, we need to have laws to discuss. I must say, I am sure that all MPs in this National Assembly are pleased that this law is now on the agenda. I don't think those who sit in executive power, or government, are satisfied. They're not happy that there's a DRI. Now I'm going to explain to you why that is. They gave an opinion, i.e. they said about the amendments submitted to this bill and, as my predecessor, Mr. Vlajko Senic, said, it was an obvious trade. Proposals have been tabled to increase wages to state auditors by a certain percentage (30, 40, 50). Then someone in the government, I don't believe that someone who's bureaucratic, but that someone who makes more serious decisions in the government, has made a decision to accept a middle solution. I am very interested in whether someone, on behalf of the ruling majority, could tell us why the government has chosen the SNS proposal to increase by 40%, not by a ruling majority or by one of the members of the Committee on Finance of the ruling majority, who, I suppose, on behalf of his parliamentary group, submitted a proposal by 50%; or by a parliamentary group that also submitted a proposal by 50%; or by an MP who submitted the proposal by 30%? What is it that the government decided to accept the proposal to increase by 40%? We are deeply convinced that there is no government's willingness to support the work... Not to support, we even think that there is a government willingness to obstruct the work of the State Auditing Institution, because what we get as the DRI report goes with the final account of the Government. In order to talk about the 2011 budget next year, we also need to discuss how money was spent in 2008 and 2009, we need to get a DRI report on this, we need to get a final account from the government. Rule it, of course, does not respond. I may be deluded, but experience has taught us in recent years that it is easier to extract an increase in wages for any activity in this country than to obtain a report from the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Once again, please, if there is someone on behalf of the ruling majority to say if they have any knowledge of what the ruling majority have chosen to lead this state, or executive power, what inspired the government to accept some compromise solution, for some to trade about this? In my opinion, it's an extreme indemnity, irresponsibility and inability to really and essentially commit ourselves to budget control. The only one who can control the right way to spend money from the Republic of Serbia's budget is this parliament. In order for this parliament to do so, it must have a final account, it must have a report from the State Auditing Institution. If the DRI has four employees, or five, we can't expect a more complete report than the one we got for 2008. In order to be better in 2009, new employees must be admitted. To get a new employee, it's a prerequisite to raise their wages. We have now done everything in the name of the National Assembly here and indeed all the parliamentary groups agree that it must raise the wages of those who work there because it is, I underline, one of the most important institutions in this country. But if there is someone who could give an answer, in the name of the ruling majority, what has decided to accept the amendment, which anyone could have submitted, but by chance it was filed by the Serbian Progressive Party...? Of course, I don't mind, but I'm interested in what inspired the government to accept their amendment, not the amendment of a member of the Finance Committee who submitted a proposal or some other parliamentary groups in front of his parliamentary group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41211	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Comic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few minutes that I will use from the time available to the MEP Group ZES will be used thanks to the talks, consultations and here by fellow MPs Nikola Novakovic, Zoran Krasic, Rade Obradovic and Slobodan Maras. I am grateful to my four for being told about the current procedural and content phase in which the DRI is located and the direct proposal to supplement and amend the law that is before us. What is the core of my remarks that I want to share with you? The Authorised Proposer of the Law on the State Auditing Institution was the National Assembly. After much work by the working group, the MPs had an agreement, both interpartial and between the ruling majority and the opposition, that it was necessary for the state to get an independent institution to control public revenues, the way in which they are spent, just as much in terms of legality, or in procedures, in which we collect public revenues from all to give them only to some, whether we do so respecting the true value of the dinars. It was in 2003, so 2005, 2007 and the law was passed. Today's act ahead of us... The proposal is once again a group of MPs and the mandated promoter on behalf of that group of MPs is the National MP Branko Ljiljak. Why this kind of introduction? Because the amendments have been submitted. We happen to have something that's a paradigm when you build institutions, when you edit the state, and when you try to do it the fastest way possible, using the most knowledge you have, you do the job well. This act was filed by a group of MPs. On the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we're asking for the government's opinion, no matter who the proposer is, and that's fine by now. What's the discussion, and what's going on for the first time? The report the government sent us, that she accepted the amendment. If you interpret the obligation for the Government to give an opinion, it can give an opinion when it is a proposing, whether the amendment accepts or does not accept it, but if the Government gives an opinion on an amendment to a bill proposed by someone else, we first have a dilemma whether the Government can accept that amendment or can only say that it has a nice opinion on that amendment or does not have a nice opinion on that amendment. I'm a bit of a cartoon, but you understand why this is an important moment. Because this is the first time we have such a situation in parliament, which means that there is maturity of the interpartial agreement and enough knowledge about how important an audit institution is, but that there is also the conquest of the space that parliament, the National Assembly must have, which is that some of the topics we want to propose as MPs, regardless of whether we are working as members of the committee, whether we are doing it as members of the working group, as was the case with the Law on the National Assembly, or whether we are going to do it by making us seven, eight, three, two MPs, no matter where we are, say -- see, this part in our society is without good regulation, we have a proposal. I do not dispute, of course, the business law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept the amendment, but I only consider myself an important enough event to make it clear to all of us what we will be doing in the following cases when it comes back to the Assembly of the draft act which is not proposed by the Government and in what way we will seek, perhaps more precisely in the next text of the Rules of Procedure, what rights the Government has in that case. So I'm not entering the content of the amendment, nor am I entering the content of the very proposal for an act that is before us. I believe that the event is important enough and I see it from the discussion of fellow Members of Parliament, as well as that it needs to be illuminated and the way I do it using the time of my parliamentary group. Why is this event still a paradigm? Because it shows us that we are at one stage in the foundation of institutions and state planning, when we all know what we want. We want an independent state auditor, we want a trustee for information that will provide free access to information, but also protect personality data, we want protection of citizens, we want RATEL (so we want someone who takes care of telecommunications), we want a Council of Broadcasting agencies, which will take care of protection. We all want it, so I don't keep order, and that's where we agree, I think. But what we're arguing about, what we may be missing knowledge of is how we want everything we want to improve the quality of service or to regulate the state in a sector, how to do it, and how to control it, because it's our constitutional jurisdiction. Now a broken line appears, and that is how the Government of the Republic of Serbia participates in the process, when we agreed that we needed regulatory bodies, when we agreed that we needed institutions like the State Auditor and when we needed to intervene in the work. With the hope that we will find a common solution and understand what it is that is happening to us for the first time, I would like to stress that, both personally and within the parliamentary group and as a member of the Democratic Party, I support the institution of the state auditor, as well as any other control that would deal with public finances, because it is the key to good governance. The governance of the country is very often best and only seen through budget management. It's even better if there's someone who's independent and professional, who can judge you by one to five, from one to ten, how well you manage the money you collect from everyone and by your policy you define that you give to only some. With a desire to fully clarify how the Government will play a role in our Rules of Procedure in giving an opinion, and with renewed gratitude to colleagues who have dealt with similar things, I hope that in the end, in the voting day, decisions will be taken that will be taken by the entire Assembly, because this is just as important as the building of independent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41213	I thank Mrs. Comic. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41214	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it can be said that the debate that has been in principle and today in particular is a good part of the extra-party and that it is an expression of support for the work of the State Auditing Institution. Of course, the concern expressed by the fact that Serbia is among the last countries where the state audit institution has started to work and who have received a report on the final account is partly paled in front of the fact and encouraging that this is the first government of the Republic of Serbia to do everything to make the DRI work, and by accessing the problems that the DRI itself has pointed out completely prove that it is absolutely interested and wants to give any kind of support to the work of the State Auditing Institution. Of course, the importance of the DRI in the system of state authorities, which is repeatedly highlighted here, is also caused by the fact that the Republic of Serbia has to deal with the work of the DRI continuously and that it certainly is being accelerated, both organisationally and in terms of authority and in terms of strengthening its independence, because the fact that such institutions in the environment and in the EU exist for tens of years is in favour of this. In the principle debate, I said that, and this time I want to repeat, respecting the debate that is under way today, that there have been other proposals to amend the DRI Act at this time. First of all, it was an initiative to extend the mandate to members of the Council, with the idea of strengthening independence in relation to MPs, or government, or even nine years, based on experiences in some other countries. However, the goal and the basic idea that these days' proposed changes aim to achieve is to neutralize primarily the first limitation set out in the report, which is the lack of state auditors. The urgency arises in that sense that we... From what I understand, we all agreed that we wanted to have DRI work in full capacity and that the 2009 final budget report of the Republic of Serbia would be an opinion in full, not an expression, like in this case we had, therefore, that it was not in fact expressing an opinion. Of course, this basic idea, as an initiative that came from the DRI itself, was shown by the fact that the competition the State Auditing Institution had repeatedly called did not produce results, the fact that the profits were really small and that they could not motivate people with special abilities, the knowledge that they were doing the job. They were: for state auditor 50,715 and for authorised state auditor 63,554 dinars. It is indeed an amount significantly above what exists on the Serbian market for auditors of this quality. The idea is that authorised state auditors and state auditors are stimulated in a way that ranks state officials, in the first and second groups, with coefficients 9 and 8, with the proposal heading towards a basic basis to be made by an authorised state auditor with a coefficient of nine, which would be based on 16049 dinars of 144,411 dinars. I deliberately mention these amounts because I've realized more than once that in public it's mostly about basics, coefficients and general things, and that the figures that represent profit are not at all, and in that sense, there's been a slight confusion. Therefore, this basic profit is also the basis of which the basic earnings of the President of the Council, members of the Council, are further built, the Supreme State Auditor. So, for the sake of state auditors of 128,000, therefore, auditors who are in fact required to exercise control are now very stimulating and very competitive in the market for people trained to do this job. For President-in-Office of the Council, when the basis of the authorised state auditor is taken, the bill envisions an increase of 30% and would amount to 177,773 dinars under the proposal. The Council member's salary would be 90% of that profit, so 168.996, and top state auditor - 152.096 dinars. Of course, the profits of the state auditor and the authorised state auditors were not at all the subject of the dispute at any time, nor of the Finance Committee, of any MP, of any parliamentary group, or political party. The subject of the debate was the earnings stemming from this basis and the first proposal, which was mentioned here, that the Council president's profits would be increased by 100%, so it would be double the salary of the top state auditor, so 288,000 dinars. The SPS-JS parliamentary club considered such a profit amount inappropriate, i.e. not compatible with the current economic situation in the Republic of Serbia. He may be comparable to the presidents of the board of state audit institutions in the surrounding countries and perhaps one day he will be in RS, I would like to be, because then we will have DRI in full capacity, but at this point we did not want to support such a proposal because we felt that he was not suitable. Respecting this fact and the follow-up of the ideas of law and hierarchy to be established, and estimating the current economic situation and the potential of our country, the proposal was to increase the profits by 30%, which would indeed give one decent profit at this point. The fact that this profit is kept at 90%, as I said, will allow the hierarchy to remain in that series and profit level. Another proposal, lower earnings, would violate that hierarchy and we did not want such a proposal, and I appreciate that, with this decent profit, we have also established this idea and trend that, although the Ministry of Finance has granted an additional 25 million dinars, this bill saves a few million dinars. Of course, the State Audit Institute is very important. What I'm saying is that her independence will not only be caused by a material position, which we want to repair. On the contrary, we have heard several times from the president of the DRI and the state auditors themselves that this time, without pressure, they have done the job, which means that this type of material position and profit is not a defining factor in the sense that the DRI retains the necessary independence. This does not mean that, following the work in the DRI in continuity and possible changes and additions of this law in some subsequent period and other laws that we expect, that when the DRI is operating at full capacity, it proposes what would be in the interest of the better work of the State Auditing Institution itself... Appreciateing what I've said, I think the proposal is an optimal solution. The Proposer, acting in these ideas, without any intention to bid or strike, has found at this time a good proposal, which will enable the work of the State Auditing Institution in full capacity, with the wish that, in the coming period, it also has full support of the Finance Committee, and I hope, the National Assembly. So this was an initiative. It is good that, in this way, it is debated both in plenary and in the meetings of the Committee on Finance; of course, it is the National Assembly that will give its final word and support either this proposal in the basic text or something else. I think this basic proposal is optimal at the moment and should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41215	Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41216	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Col. Komic is not here right now, since she opened a very interesting topic and her discussion was interesting, because it was also about how the procedure, which is particularly important. We are discussing how to enable one of the most important state institutions to work, and in fact we are discussing the procedure and in the end it all comes down to percentages or dinars, as counterpart Kasalovic said. What we can conclude... Or, someone who follows this debate may conclude that it is obvious that the procedure is not clear enough in the Assembly; on the other hand, regardless of what the ordinary citizen thinks there are very strict procedures for the adoption of certain important things, it is obvious that there are no clear rappers around the salary of the state auditor to determine these and many other salaries. First things first. The fact is that this Rules of Procedure, which Mrs Comic most spoke of, reflects the real situation in this House, which is that 99.9% of the acts are government acts. This Rules of Procedure, in fact, treats the adoption of all acts, but it always puts the government first and then you get into a situation that, since this Rules of Procedure is not in line with the new Constitution... I'm glad Mrs. Comic came, since I insisted several times. This Rules of Procedure did not comply with the Constitution, changes a year ago only changed a few members, but the new Rules of Procedure must define that the Government is not an exclusive legislator. For example, the new constitution says that, in addition to what citizens can propose, MPs can, but the National Bank can also be an authorised legislator of the law. The National Bank is an independent institution. Therefore, if the National Bank proposes an act, the Assembly, or the Government, could only give an opinion on some aspects, and that the opinion is not binding, on some aspects that may be intruding in the affairs of the Government and that the opinion should only be related to possible assistance to the Legislative Committee and procedures within the Assembly itself. It's a similar matter with the state auditor. The main task of the state's audit is to control the government and it would be illogical for the government to interfere in the procedure when the state audit law is passed. We need to build a body that will control that government. Here is the question: The government has proposed that some amendments be accepted, is that an opinion binding? Another thing, in which way, which is not clear in our rules of procedure, can avoid voting on any amendment? Why? If the relevant committees accept a certain amendment and the Government accepts it, then the amendment becomes an integral part of the text, in case the Government is a proposing. What happens in case, for example, the Government does not accept the amendment, and the Authorised Proposer (this is in this case a group of MPs, with representative Branko Ljiljak) and committees accept the amendment? Is that an amendment to the vote or not? As for the procedure, I pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not to prove that someone was right or wrong, that was not my goal during this debate. The only way to point out that there are shortcomings in the procedure is to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no other way to get word. Mrs. Djukic, if you could just... Since you didn't quote the member that I said was hurt. This is Article 149. You've given me an explanation that an authorised proposing representative should only plead to the amendments he accepts. That's what you told me. Am I right?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41217	I said it made sense, that's logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41218	Doesn't he have to make a statement about amendments he doesn't accept?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41219	He needs to make a statement about all the amendments, but he will ask for a word in case he accepts the amendment, because it is understood that they amend... It's a matter of logic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41220	If he's quiet, it means he didn't take it?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41221	If he says he's accepted it, he's accepted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41222	Because the Rules of Procedure say something different than what you just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41223	He pleads on all amendments, but does not have to comment on your suggestions after every participation in the debate to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41224	It's his duty, because if he didn't deliver in writing...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41225	He has no obligation orally to plead. They're going to analyse all the amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41226	I will read to you Article 149 to see how simple things in this congregation can be unclear: “The legislator, the committee responsible, and the Government are obliged to consider before the National Assembly meetings the amendments submitted under the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments are proposed to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. ” He doesn't say silence means rejection or anything, but he says they owe them. I'm pointing out how vague the procedure can be. I don't see what's going on here. If he says they're obliged to plead and say exactly which ones they accept and which ones they don't, then it can only fix the debate. It's not my intention to point out the error of procedure, because it's the smallest thing about such an important law, but obviously we need to know how and what are the reasons why some amendments are accepted and some don't. I'm going back now, since we've discussed the procedure. We've come up with a situation to talk about such an important body, and to discuss percentages. When you look at these amendments, you see it's 30, 40 and 50%. Let me remind you, when this original proposal, which was considered unrealistic, the government also accepted the original proposal. We, as the Finance Committee, have received the government's opinion, where they say it has the means to increase the salary 100%. That was months ago. The government did it and said it had funds. It's estimated to be a lot. There were other suggestions. Now the government decides, between 30, 40 and 50, which percentage will accept. Does this mean that by this percentage, when the government accepts those 40, it practically cancels the bill and this 30% because it prefers another solution? I don't think that's a good way to do it, and we should figure out a way to support a single proposal in the voting day, and that the whole assembly is behind one of these solutions. I don't see that there's any difference. We will also support Mr. Senic's amendment. I think that the salary of the State Auditor and the support of that institution should be reached by the votes of all MPs and there is no reason to be different, in the spirit of the procedure and independence of that institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41227	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41228	Madam President, if anyone else checked in, I'm ready to wait, not a problem, let everyone finish, so I'll...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41229	Mr. Stevanovic, the order of giving words is from representatives of the smaller ones to the larger parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41230	By amendments and by amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41231	When you all answer at the same time, then I respect the principle that is common.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41232	A man always learns something new.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41233	There, you've learned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41234	I also have to notice, Mrs. Comic won't mind, but you seem much more constructive when you sit on this side. You are here in office of the Government and here in office of Parliament. My question is: does anyone in the Assembly know what percentage we will accept, since we are not interested in what the Government has given and sent to the Assembly as an opinion? We agree with that, considering it's not a proposal. The government's attitude towards this institution has been promoted for five years since the institution was formed and established, and it is much better that we will not respect the government's position, because who knows what it would be, although it is expressed as it is. Based on what we just heard, the SRS amendment is identical to Mr Senic's amendment. Since Mr of the Democratic Party will support this amendment, indirectly the SRS amendment, we call on everyone to support the SRS amendment, or Mr Senic, to be accepted in the assembly by a percentage of 50. Why do I say that? I cannot agree, on behalf of the SRS, with Mr Senic that today has been done to the maximum, that we are making the most of this session with these changes and additions. Salaries are only one segment of the amendment and addition of this law that the Assembly is obliged to do to enable the operation of the DRI in full. Salaries are only one segment and you could hear it from Mr. Sretenović and that thematic session you asked for, and you could hear it in public, and in a number of other discussions, which are plenary, as some others. The State Audit Authority expects some other changes, both in the context of its independence and in the context of public procurement and in general in the audit process, etc. Not to enter these segments of this law and their needs now, we cannot narrow down the story to the increase in wages in the DRI and say – here, at this point we are making a maximum. That's certainly not true, but the time will come for us to discuss these other changes and additions. What we also cannot accept is that today we meet, in a way, the public request. If that's true, then so is our defeat. We are expected to provide this public with responsible, effective and complete control, which should be achieved by the DRI. What's the problem? The problem is, we got in half a year and we're just discussing all this right now. If salary increases will be a key motive for those who need to enter the DRI, I remind you of the principle discussion, and then we said – by the end of this year this job will not be able to bring an end. By the time this comes into force, by the time it is announced, or announced, and effective, as the competitions dissipate, the competitions take place, these people enter into the business, here we are at the end of the year. Mr. Senic said – the scope will be greater this time, as DRI will enter three public enterprises. It will enter three public enterprises, but at the expense of three other state institutions. It enters this control of the DRI with personnel, technical and materially the same capacities as the 2008 audit. It's a good thing they're going to search public enterprises, that's just fine. Imagine what's going on out there... I mean, you know exactly what's going on out there. We commented the other day, not to remind myself of JAT, Telekom and some other public enterprises that are in a much worse and worse situation than JAT and Telekom. It's a good thing he gets in there. There is information on the other hand, people who work in these institutions where the audit is being carried out today say that auditors are dealing with completely peripheral matters, not because of their ignorance, but because of the capacity deficits that are objectively needed. Be assured, it's not true that the range will be greater. The 2009 DRI report will be the same as the previous report, by its size. Major abuses may be identified and determined, but be assured that more than 27% of the total budget of the Republic of Serbia and its spending will not be treated and will not be controlled. It is our defeat; you who support it and who stand behind the executive authority, and in principle, let me say, and the institutions of the Assembly because they haven't done all this much before. Maybe we'd have done it sooner, if we were in a position to decide, to push, to look, but now it's all in your hands. Everything we're talking about was expected to be done a long time ago. What else is important to say? Now a partial responsibility will fall on the DRI, that's what we said in the principle debate. You will say, "You have received wages, so now you are working." That's not all. With these changes and additions from the DRI gentlemen, they take great responsibility on themselves. To be banal and to say about the salary, whether it's 190.000 or 200,000, it doesn't matter to that public who on average receives about 30,000 and less, but that's the average; that's the average going to go to this 200,000, and this of 200,000 is going to make that average. For those 200,000 or 190.000, they are required a great responsibility. President-in-Office of the Council is asked for responsibility to create adequate triage and shake those who will report to the competition. These people must not be exclusively motivated by 190.000 or 200,000 dinars. That's what we said. These should be people who are responsible, capable and committed to the public interest, as we are calling here, as Mr Senic said, at the request of the public. It's someone in public who cares how much pay I take. He asks me for results and asks me to point my finger at the minister, the director of a public firm, the head of a regulatory body, how he unintendedly spent money; not as he ate burgers and kewapes, but as he conducted public procurement, as he called the tender, as he set up tenders, as he paid for contracts, and did not renew them or implement them through adequate procedures, defined by law. That's what these people are supposed to do. That is why we say that it is a great responsibility for those who will choose these people, and ultimately those who, on behalf of the DRI, and at the expense of this support they are to receive in parliament, will exercise future control. We propose to accept the SRS proposal, which he submitted in the same text and Mr Senic, or G17 plus, which will support the DSS. So, at least in this segment of support for the DRI, we in parliament will be absolutely clear of conscience, if I may say so. We did everything we could, and the government was no longer expected. The government found the middle: we gave 30, these gave 50, so come on 40, we met in the middle. The government doesn't seem to care objectively that this institution is doing the right thing. A few months ago you passed the Law on the National Assembly, apostrophe of Parliament's control function in relation to the executive power. This is an opportunity to show that you are behind this, you and all of us together in parliament, and we who insist on a control function from the point of view of the opposition, to give full support to an independent body, which will not remain independent again until some other parts of the law are changed. As far as we're concerned, it's acceptable for the SRS to accept this 50%. It's impossible there's no money in the budget. For this money in the budget there must be. Twenty-five million in the annual budget is nothing for one state, especially by providing mechanisms that will save hundreds of millions on the other hand, or billions, we once said. The finance minister pointed to the fact that they can't control over a hundred billion dinars that move exclusively in the public sector without talking about public procurement going through private companies, etc. It has reason to give money to this institution, but from the position of the control section of the government to control, or to seek results for such a thing, however devastating they will be to individuals who will be subject to the treatment of the State Auditing Institution. All of what we're talking about today we'll only be able to expect from next year, when the effects of this law and other changes and additions are completely stuck on the ground, or in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41235	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41236	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, so that there is no doubt that the MPs here are now divided into those who are willing to support the increase in income in the DRI and those who have a reserve in relation to it, and that this is in some way interpreted as supporting or missing the support of the institution, I would like to say the following. As far as we're concerned, we're really interested, and we think it's an immeasurable interest from the point of view of the state and the citizens of Serbia, to make the DRI a serious, independent and responsible institution. As far as we're concerned, we're willing to do anything to make it happen. I do not want to dispute any sentence of what you have cited as the importance of this institution and as potential gains that this society and this state should have from the responsible work of this institution. I agree that everything you said is true. I believe there is a good will to do everything to create such an institution. As for the fact that our parliamentary group, or the representatives of our parliamentary group, have proposed amendments to the laws that involve an increase of 30%, I have a need to explain what criteria we have in mind. One of the assumptions for the independence of the institution and those who work there is the level of income, so that those who work there are not prone to corruption, that they are not prone to bribery. But if that's the way we look at it, then I don't think there are any salaries that could prevent an individual from being corrupt in a situation where the other person, whose interest is immeasurably greater to corrupt, can offer more incomparably than the state can ever offer to such an institution. That's why we don't think it's supposed to be the only criterion for creating a DRI. Since this must not be the only criterion, it is understood that the criterion must be expertise and knowledge. Here we came from what are real assets that can be hired by a good expert who knows how to do the job, not measuring the moral quality of the individual and his ability to resist from a certain level of pay, and from some lower level not, corruption and attempt to be corrupt. Because if we try to value it that way, then there is no possibility that the state pays as much as some individuals can offer if their interest is incomparably greater. What was also very important to us, we went from how necessary it was to providing experts in that institution. According to all the indicators, the analysis of how many these experts receive in some other institutions, we have concluded that this percentage of 30% is an adequate percentage, which can enable high-quality professionals who know the job to be employed in the DRI. At the same time, we also had in mind some other parameters that are also extremely important and that we have to go every time in the name of society we try to take a step in building an institution. We came from the fact that it is equally important that we have independent experts working at the Anti-Corruption Agency, so we compared how much this country can pay in times of economic crisis and difficult situations, also expecting them to be resistant to any form of attempt to be corrupt, on the one hand, also be very brave because it is a business in which they not only later report abuses, but also point to potential abuses and point to corruption, with intent and instruments to prevent them. Therefore, it is necessary that quality experts, people of integrity, people immune to attempts to be corrupt also work in the institution. If we compare receipts to the Anti-Corruption Agency, we'll see that they're smaller than what we suggested for the DRI. At the same time, the need for society to cope with negative phenomena, crime, abuse, corruption, etc. implies that we have a strong and independent judiciary. In order to have a strong and independent judiciary, we must also allow them to receive as much money as the state can pay, and on the other hand, to get quality experts for that salary. So nothing less important, nothing less dangerous and nothing less susceptible to potential corruption is even the job of the judge. Then we compared how much judges are receiving, and we realized that this is what our proposal is more than what the judges are taking. We've come from the fact that it's not the idea of changing this law to institutionally corrupt an institution and to start competing on who's going to offer the institution more, to maybe create a more favourable position in possible DRI reports. So, taking into account the need to strengthen this institution, the need for the best experts to come to that institution, we wanted to determine which, in this economic situation, is an optimal measure. If we can get the highest quality income judge we get, if we can get the highest quality members of the Anti-Corruption Agency for the funds they get, if we can get in other places, if we can get good, unsuspected pay officers (their job is also risky, their job is also exposed to possible corruption) and so on, then this measure of 30% is an optimal measure, in which we create conditions for the institution to develop by receiving the highest quality experts from that area. On the other hand, we will not try to create an illusion (not a real assumption) that we can give enough money, and that if it is not good, it will not be corrupt with much more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41237	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41238	Just to get the discussion back on the right topic, without intending to challenge anyone's discussion and those free compositions. This law and this amendment have nothing to do with corruption. They don't have any contact points with corruption. This amendment of the law is necessary for the State Auditing Institution to conduct a competition. They had two unsuccessful competitions. Several hundred people report, they choose those who meet the conditions: “Are you in the mood to receive you? “Yes, we are. ” They ask the candidates: “What is our salary? “40,000”. “Thank you, I have already received 150,000 in the existing company.” So it's not about corruption, it's about whether we're going to have eight authorised state auditors or we're going to have forty. We can't even finish the job with 40. Please stop chasing things more. This has nothing to do with corruption, this has to do with whether or not we're going to fill in the systematization, elementally. When I say elementally - minimum, we could justify the existence of an institution. How can we talk about having an institution and having eight auditors and 9,000 legal entities to control? That's not working. One more thing. Please, since 1990, everyone has advocated the principles of the market economy. That by simple definition means free market, which is more free, labour market, goods, services and capital. We're missing more flossules to get someone into a working relationship for emotional, patriotic, patriotic, satirical, humorous, and other reasons. He enters a working relationship to earn, to restore his work ability, improve his life, allow children to eat, be neat, develop. How much money, how much music. Guys, let's be realistic. We had the Patriotic Army, the Patriotic Police, the Patriotic State Security. You've seen the books, what the patriots of national security did, followed. No more. So let's sum it up. As far as the specific amendment is concerned, it does not refer to a place that has yet to be filled, but to a filled place. What place? One man. People, one amendment refers to President of the Council's salary, that's one. Should he have any higher salary than an authorized and state auditor? You should. How much? Not to bid, but to be in the same proportion as it exists in other state bodies. The amendment is about the amendment that Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic will explain, where some correction is being made in a series. According to her amendment, she'll explain it much better, follow this change and come to that next amendment practically the same, when it comes down mathematically. It's a good thing we've opened up the subject and salary in other institutions. You weren't here this morning, Mrs. Kolundjia, when I talked a little longer; there were some here bored, but I generally talked about the compliance of our regulations and that there was indeed an unacceptable solution in the existing law, where the salary of the state auditor is determined according to the salary of the President of the Council, and the salary of the President of the Council depends on the salary of the National Assembly president. The president of the National Assembly and everyone in the National Assembly of Kobayagas are in a working relationship, and not in a working relationship, but only received as public officials. Well, you can't make a government official pay for something that's a sausage. The advantage of this law is that the authorised auditor and the state auditor are returning to the system of government salaries, civil servants and determines from them after that. So what looks like we're bidding whether it's 30, 40 or 50 refers to only one man, the president. The next amendment applies to members of the Council, there are five of them. That's why I said, it's not worth talking about right now, it's going to split people up as a kind of auction. We don't need to bid anything here. But we need to consider some hierarchical relationship that already exists in the civil servants' pay system. That's what this is about. There's no talking about any corruption. The issue of corruption is not a question of the material position of one that can be corrupt. That's where I fully agree with you. You can give a man 500,000 a month's salary, so he'll be even more corrupt. It's just, you know, you get used to it, you grab it, you take it, you take it, you take it. So you see these tycoons, they've become simply money addicts. If he didn't make money today, I don't know how many thousands of euros, he's sick. They become slaves to their money. Now the capital rules them, they don't master the capital anymore. The capital has a natural desire to spread, to fertilize. They pathologically enter new jobs, grab jobs, make monopolies etc., to confirm that old thesis – don't ask me about the first million, and then I'll tell you everything. Well, those big industrialists... He, when he crossed that million dollars, and one philosopher calculated that in life a man can normally make up to a million dollars, but those who have a lot more, their capital requires that they have legal business and control their employees. They're not big fans of the state and obligations. Well, they all came out by stealing from the state or shutting down the state. If we go to those principles of market economy, please, there's something that we can't change. Everyone for their work needs to be paid. It's not just about DRI, it's about anyone who works. And to him who works with the craftsman, and to him who works with the industrialist, and to him who works in the public service, to everyone who works in his own market. He must be paid for his work. I fully agree that there are other civil servants and civil servants who have a very strange salary. Perhaps this is a good example of comparison between judges and authorised auditors and state auditors. But the revision is one brand, that must be said, one professional brand. You see how much they receive in these private audit houses, where we have given one other law the right to establish the legal person's credit rating, whether they have properly booked, correctly demonstrated the activity, whether the financial results of the business have been properly shown, etc. I get the impression we're not ready for any changes. We'd still like to live in some self-government socialism, where SDK inspectors (as SDK) were god and beating and controlling everything. Today, basically, we only have two principles in the economy: liquidity and insolvency. Is the privateer going to eat his own capital, whether he's going to eat his own machines, that's no longer interested in the state in the extreme. But all participants in a business life are interested in what he's like as a business partner, and that's why we need an audit to say what the bonus is. That's what this is about. I'm not going to use time as a representative of the Finance Committee because all of this has been unanimously done on the Finance Committee, from the Committee members present, and we don't need to make any bigger noises needlessly. We agree on this. I don't think he deserves this much attention about one man's salary, and the next amendment, the question of paying three more; he doesn't deserve much attention. Vlajko Senic is right, let's give this one 50% higher, and then let's call them accountable afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41239	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41240	In principle, the story of the State Auditing Institution is a story Mr Krasic was just talking about, but it seems to me that a moment ago from the field of this dry economy or finance has already come out in philosophy. What is devastating is that the story of DRI defends categories, areas that have completely failed us in Serbia, as state institutions, so the story goes from the judiciary, and we all know exactly what the situation is. I don't argue that you've implemented the reform, but the effects of the reform we all feel good, we hear a lot about it, but we do feel concrete. Let's not go into judicial reform now. The essence of the story, I am completely in agreement with Mr. Krasic, and mine, was not to share here, to share MPs. I have clearly drawn a line between us in the legislative body and the gentlemen of the executive authority. This is the sole story of us in the legislative power. There's no dispute about their salary being raised. What do we do when we say this? Twenty MPs can launch an initiative to replace a man talked about and Mr Krasic just now, President of the Council. We can do it. Suppose it's never going to be a matter of someone's abuse or political whim or anger. If we are the ones who have the chance, based on the law, to replace him or launch an initiative for his shift, there should be nothing to us that will potentially question his work or functioning. It's sad if in independent regulatory bodies, I repeat, we only bring the story down to wages. That's sad. It's sad that we live in a time where standards and values, which you say we don't share, are only money, if we have to motivate someone to do a good job for the judge, the auditor, the doctor, etc. I'm not a man who doesn't understand market functioning at all, everything is fine and I accept and adequate compensation and everything, but this is a job that implies both responsibility and justice, and at one point and courage. But you will no longer be able to decide; one man will decide. In the name of the SRS, I've apostrophe. You're not wondering anymore. As we ask ourselves, let's do everything, maximum, so that later we can shake whoever we've put all the mechanisms into our hands. Then we'll have arguments to launch the initiative and replace someone. Not because of us, let's not give room to anyone to defend themselves, to have a reserve – well, I'm not this... Here's all of us, you got it, you're doing your job the way you're supposed to do it. One more thing, it is distasteful that you are trying to bring this job into context with European standards, European integration. Spare us the stories today. Let's talk about this for our needs and for Serbia, because of the circumstances and the ambience that is in force in Serbia. Yesterday we listen, or the day before yesterday, when it was in the Assembly – you know, we pass a law on fiscal responsibility. We're passing a law that will formulate a body that may be a pandan of DRI. You'll give him, I suppose, the powers you could give to the State Auditing Institution as an alternative. Now a new body. What's that gonna open? Wait till we see the bill. We haven't seen him, but the IMF's already giving a grade on him, and that's where you sent him. But we or you... You didn't get it. Your government sent him there first, and then you're going to give a grade on him, probably through a plenary debate, or all of us together. For what? Why fiscally larger if you have a state audit institution? It's a relationship to the State Auditing Institution. The state audit institution, its functioning and its report, as Mr. Senic said earlier, qualify you on that road to the EU and you have completely failed. So let's talk about this as something that's our thing and our need and our obligation, after all. You're boasting that we're going to pass the law, 40%, say, the biggest debt in terms of GDP. You're boasting about it. We boast of weaknesses. There's a 60% standard in the modern world, and we're boasting about the 40% standard. Why? Because our real economy is completely rotten. Now we boast how responsible we are in that part. These are some paradoxes, paradoxes that are appearing in a completely different way today in this discussion. So it's not our intention to share anyone here. Mr. Krasic said nicely, we are fully agreed to support everything he will give, but we believe... I repeat it once again, and I end it, and I don't want to talk anymore, so let the Assembly do whatever it takes, because the government here has failed. Let the congregation show that she is willing to do anything, and then, with full right, she will be able to demand responsibility from those she has given full support to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41241	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41242	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the debate obviously shows support for the work of the DRI, but ways and ways, when this bill on amendments and additions to the DRI Act, are a little different. My second announcement today was primarily a discussion by Mr Krasic, who, I want to say, was on the heart, with his presidency and initiative very much contributed to this debate today and that this draft law on amendments and additions to the DRI Act even reaches the agenda. But he said the key thing and stripped the whole, to the end, the idea of this law, which is that the DRI should be in a position to successfully conduct a competition for the selection of state auditors and authorised state auditors. The law follows that idea and the DRI initiative. The profit found at the first moment remained as an uncut proposal in all discussions, among all political parties, all the MPs. Of course, that profit, which is now foreseen in terms of 128,000 and 144,000... If you want me to say percentages, the increase for state auditors is 153% and for the authority of state auditors is 127%. Other profits and wages... As Mr Krasic said, it is people whose earnings and material position were not the main trigger for this law, whose jobs were filled. The idea of this law respects the fact that earning an authorised state auditor is a basic profit for determining and earning a President of the Council. What is important here is to say, therefore, it's about one man, but not in that sense that his profit is just his question. For the President of the DRI Council, it also demands the profits of members of the Council, then the Supreme State Auditor and Secretary of the DRI. If earnings are increased by President of the DRI Council, profits are increased, according to the hierarchy that has been established, both members of the Council and the Supreme State Auditor and the Secretary of the DRI. Additional resources should be allocated for this. So it's true that one man is concerned, but not just for one man, but for the other. We had demands that this profit, the basic profit of the state auditor be increased by 100%, but we also had a proposal to increase it by 20%. What's important here to say (and that's the idea in this second part of the bill) is that this amount of 20% increase in the basic earnings of the authorised state auditor is produced, the established hierarchy of the profit trail, so that the profits of the Supreme State Auditor will be less than the earnings of the authorised state auditor, which is certainly not compatible, because the Supreme State Auditor is superior and has a wider range and complexity of jobs and deserves to have a greater profit than the authorised State Auditor. Of course, by estimating the idea in this part, that in this situation of the economic crisis, we are managing the profits that exist, we are establishing an increase in earnings, so to determine the earnings of the President of the Council by increasing the profits of an authorised state auditor in an optimal percentage, the lowest, which provides a decent profit of 187,000 dinars... I'll remind you, it's about 100% profit increase. In this way, and by further increasing the profits and suggestions that exist here, we would have produced in the hierarchy an increase in profits. It's not about any kind of bidding, it's about the logical trail of the law-makers' idea in this part to allow for the work of those who work in the field, state auditors, authorised state auditors. With respect to hierarchy, profits are increased optimally, at the lowest possible level that can withstand the current budget and the Republic of Serbia, while ensuring decent profit in these conditions. Believe me, when it is declared to be 187,000 dinars, it really looks like quite a decent and respectable profit. If we were to discuss some of the parameters and the consistency of profits in the state bodies, it might be possible to discuss some relations and profits, and the president of the Assembly, vice-presidents, and us MPs, but above all the president of the Assembly, because the profits in the DRI were related to the earnings of the President of the Assembly and the Vice-President. In that sense, of course, an ad hoc solution to this law can be considered in one part and perhaps unfounded in some clear parameters. On the other hand, it should be clear, because of this approach and the urgency of amending this law, that the government's commitment and the ruling majority to provide maximum conditions for the operation of the DRI, because it is one of the conditions for the Republic of Serbia to receive public finances, so that the spending of every dinar of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can be determined. That is, of course, the interest and expression of the government's desire and the ruling majority, and the need, not just one of the conditions in our country's European integration. I expect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to appreciate this idea because this is an optimal solution, in my opinion. Of course, in the day of voting, whoever decides is the majority, that is, it will be as decided by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but we will certainly get a shift in the work of the State Auditing Institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41243	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and Petar Jojic. Mrs Dimitrijevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is a logical trail of the previous amendment submitted by colleagues Zoran Krasic and Dragan Stevanovic on behalf of the G17 Group, plus the same amendment, Mr Vlajko Senic. If this amendment had been accepted, more specifically these amendments, the President of the Council would have increased the basic salary by 50%, thus creating conditions for the president and members of the Council to be paid higher, because this salary of the President of the Council is the basis for the billing of their salaries. With such an increased base, 80% of that salary would mean a higher amount than this 90% of the unexpanded amount in the bill. It wouldn't be much higher. A simple calculation shows that it would be higher by about two and a half percent compared to the one in the bill, while the post of President of the Council would be respected. Since it has been repeated repeatedly that the problem of staff deficits is that wages are not adequate compared to the complexity of work tasks, the solution is, of course, an increase in wages. The work of the auditor is responsible, it takes a lot of knowledge, practice and that interest really needs to be respected, and one of the types of respect is certainly the salary that the auditor will receive. On the other hand, in addition to qualifications, the nature of the job requires that the auditor be satisfied with his incomes. Where an auditor audits the work of budgetary users in most cases, he encounters a number of irregularities to make up the minutes and submits a report. So he'll reveal what was done, how the taxpayers' money was spent, whether it seemed right or wrong. It is no accident that for years since the establishment of the State Auditory Institution has not functioned, because as soon as the work began, various irregularities were immediately detected, and only a partial audit of the final account was carried out, covering a little less than a third of the budget funds and only 18 budget beneficiaries. Many of these irregularities have been known before, however, the DRI report is an official document that has confirmed all this. The result of the report was the withdrawal of the 2008 Final Account Bill by the government, and the reasons for the withdrawal was explained by the prime minister himself, saying it was about minor cosmetic changes. The irregularities found in the DRI are numerous: breach of the provisions of the Law on Public Procurement - there are a number of disputed procurement contracts, among other things, translation services, computer services, information services; unfounded labour contracts and excessive fees (it is a matter of signing a contract on a work to carry out those tasks which the DRI says represent the tasks of the state administration and that no contracts can be concluded to carry out); many hours of overtime (that individuals have worked up to 30 hours a day); there are no internal audits; no repayment of loans from the budget, and many others. Otherwise, the DRI controls spending of money from the republican budget, the business of public enterprises, compulsory insurance organisations, local self-government, political parties, the National Bank, as well as beneficiaries of international donations. It is very important that we briefly remind ourselves of how much the profits were made by certain public companies managers in February of last year, 2009. The highest salary was paid by the CEO of JAT Airways and amounted to 379,161 dinar. Otherwise, this is official data from a report published on the government's website. The second highest profit was the CEO of Telecom Serbia, which had a salary of 354.879 dinars and the third director of Elektroprivreda Serbia with a net salary of 345.779 dinars. According to the report, the director of Transnafte had a salary of 331,163 dinars, director of PTT Serbia 297,202 dinars, deputy director-general of "Nikola Tesla" in Belgrade, 297,474 dinars, director of "The Official Messenger" 275,904 dinars, the Institute for textbooks and teaching funds 226,214 dinars, "Srbijavoda" 220,500 dinars, general director of "Srbijasum" 205,415 dinars, director of "Serbijavnica Serbia" 202,383 dinars. We all know that many public enterprises are big losers. Also, the government published on its website a list of earning directors of public agencies paid in February 2009, according to which the highest salary was received by the Director of the Central Charter Register - 355.205 dinars and the Director of the Privatisation Agency 344.149 dinars. All other directors received high salaries, not to list everything, and the lowest salary among them was the director of the Anti-doping Agency of Serbia, whose salary was 97,411 dinars and director of the Institute for Nature Protection of Serbia, to which 71,703 dinars were paid. I listed all this data so we could make comparisons with the salaries of state auditors, because these are the people who need to audit the work of these highly paid managers of public enterprises and other services. A colleague, Kasalovic, has already cited the salary of the institution, according to current regulations. As I said earlier, an auditor's job requires a high-level, expert frame. These jobs cannot be done by candidates who do not have enough work experience, but are needed by the ability with a rich experience, who has specific knowledge and skills to do the job. Otherwise, it is important to remind ourselves that for years after the adoption of the DRI Act, conditions for work were not provided for this body, first of all no space was provided. That's enough talking about the government's relationship to this control body. Looks like it was simpler not to work. It would probably not work for much longer, however, a report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress in European integration in 2008 drew criticism about the incomplete operation of the DRI. As the word "Europe" is the only law that respects this authority, it has joined the role of the State Auditing Institution. In the end, I will also say that we are well aware that many people in Serbia today work for a salary of between 10,000 and 15,000 dinars, many people work on black, without insurance and paid contributions. Unfortunately, among them are people with higher education who cannot be employed in the profession. Now, some of these people who listen to this debate represent these salaries that we mentioned can act as high amounts, but when we realistically look at all the amounts that we have cited, it is clear that these amendments and additions to the Law are a prerequisite for a more complete operation of the State Auditing Institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41245	National MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41246	President, how many minutes do we have? (President: 13 and a half minutes. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, when it comes to reforming legislation in Serbia, one problem should be said, which is that there is a failure to use a parallel-legislative analysis. What does that mean? Serbia has the Institute for Comparative Law. If this area, which should be governed in one way by EU countries, continental or Anglo-Saxon law, should then be taken into account the fact that MPs and all those involved in law-making do not have the opportunity to obtain analysis, parallel-law, as regulated individually in some countries. I'll remind you that a state audit institution in Canada was established back in 1878. In more developed countries, the status of an audit institution is very high. I think the number of auditors under that rule that was established, accepted and delivered to the National Assembly is small. You remember that the MPs of the SRS were searching two years ago and we barely found four auditors; reportedly, the auditors were four, so to speak, officials, here in the attic of this building, and the Law on the Auditory Institution was passed in 2005. The problem is that the audit institution is not equipped and not filled with the needs of the state of the Republic of Serbia. If you currently have forty employees, along with state auditors and president, that's very little. It is not possible for this number of people to carry out adequate and comprehensive control of budget users. It is between eight and nine thousand users of the state budget of the Republic of Serbia. One logical question arises: is this number of people able to audit and control budget spending? In my assessment, it's only symbolic and there's no question that they can exercise certain control over budget spending. In the Government of the Republic of Serbia alone, you have 25 ministries, and in some developed countries you have between 10, 12 and 14. With this population, it's absolutely inappropriate. In addition to saying, in addition to 25 ministries, there are still 111 bodies of the republican level that need to be controlled. What about public enterprises owned by the Republic of Serbia? What about public enterprises, who's gonna control them at the local level? What's the number of these public utility companies? Great, in every community. Do you know how many municipalities and how many budget users there are, other than public enterprises, as an institution in a bar? From 2000 to today, no one controlled them. They control themselves. It is known, and it is said: trust the goat to keep the cabbage. There's no control. What's absolutely visible, this government has no intention of enabling, filling and providing DRI conditions. If there were a will, it would not have happened if we had control over fifty users of the budget and that immediately at the start of the people working in that state institution have identified a number of irregularities, but the trouble is that it is not governed by the law that the responsibility of those who do not purposely spend funds and where there are numerous abuses. Because now it turns out that someone can spend half a billion dinars unintentionally and have a criminal report filed and that they pay a fine of up to 50,000 dinars maximum. It's not an adequate punishment. That's not the point of punishment being achieved. There's a problem. Therefore, there are a number of laws that are closely linked to the DRI and the laws applicable to financial and material business to be changed, harmonised and passed by firm laws. The state auditor in the west has a special building, has special police security, no auditor can go to another office to another fellow auditor without having previously checked, or wrote a note, or even his boss. Our auditors have received some inadequate premises at a railway station in Belgrade, and now they have some rooms, also inadequate, at the Hotel Slavija. Therefore, it should have the will to enable the audit institution to carry out such tasks, which are and how important for the state of Serbia. How does that happen in practice? How does a non-intentional waste of funds? I'm afraid that we don't beat up empty straw here and collect classes on last year's scale, and forget that many budget users do whatever they want, burn and burn, spend the non-intentional resources of taxpayers. The National Assembly must be that controller and be responsible for the supervision of the Government and its resolutions. The government can't spend money without control. Auditor reports must be submitted more frequently, in order for parliament and MPs to be familiar. Here's an example that's fresh, to inform the public now, and so are you, Madam President, on one occasion, whether he's small or not, whether he's insignificant or not. What happened? A number of tourists gathered in Zlatibor the other day, about a thousand of them, and these are representatives of Serbia's heat, so they held counselling at hotels in Zlatibor. A thousand of them should have spent, by all accounts, about fifty million dinars, and gone to agree on how to raise heating prices. I'm asking if any executives were taking secretaries to counsel them on the Goldibor? Did they leave for tourism or was this counseling, and for what purpose? Imagine, one day they travel, three days they stay, the fifth day they come back. The price in hotels is between four, five, six, seven or eight, where there are closed pools. They left because they also heard the weather forecast, as it is often given, there was likely to be an announcement that there would be snow on Zlatibor, so that the cabler built by Mr Dinkic wanted to visit and ski, should have had some of that intense heat and cooled down. I'm asking the Ministry of Finance. This is important for parliament, and it's important, Madam President, and you know that we don't raise these questions by chance. You know how many hundreds of thousands of citizens in Serbia are now heating up with heat. If they have now spent fifty million on Zlatibor for only one trip to counseling, how much will they spend in a year and how much will they raise prices, and the heat is losing eleven billion dinars, or 250 million euros? This is an example that citizens should know, that money from taxpayers cannot be spent this easily and that Parliament's control must be in relation to the auditor and the government. I ask the question and ask the Ministry of Finance and the State Auditor to determine who was in the heat on Zlatibor 16, 17, 18 and 19 May 2010, on which basis, who is the organizer of the seminar, how many participants, namely, from which city, how much money was spent, and how much money was once put on the path of this tourism. That was also in the judiciary. You had a situation in the judiciary that the presidents of the courts or the public prosecutors never missed any counseling, but that's why hundreds of millions spent and the state paid. I see the Justice Department is now taking certain steps to prevent abuses. This requires this control, but the budgetary institution must be established; it must work. I am looking for an answer to the question I have asked, because I believe it is important for Parliament and for our citizens who pay for heat energy, i.e. The price of heating. Now follow how much they will raise the price, and you will see that the wages or pensions have not increased so much, they are still. Some don't have a salary or a pension, and they have to pay for the heating. How much heat will that pick up now? From where? Look at this wasteland. With this waste of the state and the Ministry, they must stand in the way. There's no control in public utility. There's a problem. (President: Time. I thank you. I'd like to ask this response from the Ministry and the State Auditing Institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41247	Mr. MP, the institution of asking parliamentary questions has been regulated by members from 199 to 203. Rules of Procedure. You've actually had one discussion about the amendment now, and asking MPs questions is, of course, possible, but... The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Zoran Antic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to the DRI Act and how important it is for the SNS, and I'm sorry that I got the impression that we lost almost two hours of talking about the salaries of state auditors. It seems to me that it's still in everything that's going on around the DRI marginal thing. We from the SNS even came at some point into the situation that we should justify that our amendment was accepted, and it was that we wanted to show support to the State Auditing Institution and that the proposal, which was about 30% increase, was potentially 40%. Some parliamentary groups, such as the G17 and the SRS, seemed to me, suggested 50%. We all had only a good will and there was no reason to create so much controversy about it, to outwit ourselves, to be shown as a favorite of the government, and someone like someone who isn't, to spend so much time on the procedure, whether it's respected or not. It's a matter of the Rules of Procedure. Here, you'll change it soon, change the Rules of Procedure. Let's talk about DRI more seriously, because DRI needs to control over 50% of gross domestic product, because that's how much it goes through the public sector. So if you look at the fact, many of the colleagues have already mentioned it, that we have seven auditors... Let's be a little self-critical, respected fellow. We're the ones who passed that law four years ago. What have we done with our actions or inaction that has contributed to the state today, when it comes to national audits, like this? Has the Finance Committee done its job well enough in the previous period, has the DRI topic been on the agenda enough, has this been often on the agenda of this Parliament? I'd say it's not, I'd say we've also been involved in a bad situation when it comes to DRI, and we can't have the responsibility to transfer to executive power, because the executive power by some nature, knowing the situation in Serbia, is running away from the DRI. It's not in her interest... As he boasts about the citizens, why should he not treat one institution that needs to control it? We cannot thus be amnested by responsibility for the situation in this area. So these predicted changes, which are so agreed among MPs, and this salary increase should mean an increase in the number of auditors, but all that is suggested is, I think, just a drop in the sea when it comes to DRI. We have a much more serious job ahead of us, and I hope that this assembly, and the Finance Committee, will be able to come out with much more serious changes, to put more serious pressure on the executive power to improve the situation. It is not necessary for the EU to blackmail the government by the fact that it will not lend loans to this or that public enterprise if audits are carried out in the public undertaking. We need today, when we are talking about selling some public enterprises, such as Telecom, to have the right state of the value of these companies, that we MPs, who should take part in this debate, know what the balance sheets are, what the balance sheet of the "Telecoma" success, that we know how real it is worth, and not that we already pre-contain that property and, possibly, some income that is based on that sale should be realised. We also need to know how to manage these public enterprises. The directors of these public companies are full of praise at their expense, but if they enter into the activity and the passive of these companies, it will be seen that many things are not as pink as they are presented to the public, that the property of one good part of public enterprises is being destroyed from year to year; that we have very bad governance, and that is party governance; that we, in particular, will be talking about Telecom, in a sector which has a great growth not only in our country but in the whole world we do not yet achieve such results as we should, because only the short term debts of that company are increasing significantly. It is obvious that this company, regardless of what it charges its services for 50 days, and the services to others pay only after about 700 days, as things stand out of balance, does not have enough of its own crafts. It is one more serious way to focus on the state of public enterprises and it is the State Auditing Institution that should enable us, us and the public, to gain real insight into the business of these companies. I would like to say that I hope that in some future period we will also take care of the overallity of the funds spent from the budget. In fact, there's not a word about it today, and today it comes down to a possible control of the legality of spending funds. It is only when we are at that stage that we can assess the overallity and results of certain investment funds that are being invested and going out of the budget that we will be able to say that the State Auditing Institution has achieved one capacity that is needed through the control of the public funds that we have in general. I would say that, unfortunately, when the DRI theme is on the agenda, it shows that today in this country, when it comes to institution control, we have a very bad situation. I would say that the executive power on that, not to say insist, but does nothing, but, unfortunately, we, as a legislative authority, do not insist to the extent that numerous affairs that are being opened daily are being sanctioned. In this way, citizens' trust in institutions and this institution, the institution of the National Parliament, is being undermined. Everything in this country can't be relativated, it can't be everything and it can't be. We must finally come into a situation so that the independent regulatory institutions we have, which we have formed, are not only forming because it requires the EU, not to form, but to really be the essence of the control of the spending of funds and the behaviour of the executive authority. I hope that these amendments proposed by the Serbian Progressive Party and the adoption of this amendment by the government will not be an obstacle for MPs to vote. We are ready to vote for amendments to the SRS and the G17, where wages are increasing, but wages are what is marginal throughout the story. It is much more important how the DRI works and, above all, all of us who have passed this law, we from the legislative authority, we have to do a lot more to make sure that the situation is fixed, and it is currently extremely bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41249	The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41250	Just for a little while, so I don't lose my comment. The position of the Serbian Progressive Party is that the Council, which numbers five members, should receive much more serious authority and have much more impact on the work of the DRI, as we have gained the impression that this influence is not enough. The amendment goes that way. I'm sorry there was no understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41251	Thank you. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and Dragan Stevanovic. Mr. Stevanović wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41252	Given that this is the end of the discussion, I would conclude -- the Serbian Radical Party is, when these amendments and additions to the Law are in question and when this institution is concerned, exclusively wanted to be constructive. It showed on the Finance Committee (Mr Krasic and others), and our intention was to show it today. As far as we're concerned, the State Audit Institute, its independence, its freedom and, as I say, the commitment to do the job that the law provides will never be questioned, but we have no intention of calling anyone or anyone responsible if everything that the Assembly provides and enables through the procedure in the institutions is questioned. We have no intention of keeping quiet and closing our eyes in front of that. We also ask the representatives of the authorities to follow this example that we MPs of the SRS tried to show today in the debate and to set up in their relationship with the State Auditing Institution exactly as we do. I think it will give one more quality to our economic, financial, or fiscal system and be in the interest of the citizens, in which we all allegedly all swear and to which we all call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41253	Thank you. Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, I give my word to the proposing representative to Mrs Branko Ljiljak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41254	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as someone who has been elected to be a rapporteur of seven MPs, I would like to say a few words. My exposure will relate to a lot of discussions that were very constructive and show that we all want the DRI to work in a good way, that there is no pressure, we all realized that, especially in the Finance Committee, where I have had a little more contact with the DRI members, and that they are doing their job responsibly, that they need help, that we said this at the tide, when the debate was on the final account of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. These are the initial steps. They're always clumsy and we have to give them not only support with words, but also really, so they can start doing their job the way the law requires. I would like to point out, with all the discussions on how the executive authority is doing its job and should be criticised and audited, that this is the first government that has received the DRI report, that despite all the difficulties at first (more technical nature than other species) it has had the strength to give the State Audit Authority the support to start working, resulting in the report. He is partial, but these are initial steps, which will be corrected in the continued work of the state institution. Next, although everyone criticises, there are no certain material conditions to work, there is no room, appropriate, she somehow put it to work in these new rooms where it is now the turn; where, I agree with all previous speakers, it should be quality, although my part is to accommodate young people who will be educated during work and receive certain certificates. Every year, the state audit institution submits a financial plan for its work, I think many MPs know it, and the 2010 report says that they currently have 22 employees. At first, the members of the Finance Committee remember, and I will now remind the citizens, we helped them to get more funds in the wage-related work than the Ministry, or Government. So we've already sent enough signals to the State Audit Authority to work and do their own job. It is planned to employ 80 people, and that is why the Ministry of Finance has re-balanced a certain part of the funds that will apply to newly employed people. I expect that to happen. There are remarks that it will last six months, until employment; it doesn't have to be, these people don't have to get that salary right now, but now they have a conviction that they're getting bigger. As for making amendments and supplementing the law, in order to avoid these bids, how much will be paid and how many percent higher, I and then at the session said that I advocated that state and authorised auditors have as much pay as it will be for private sector people, and I think that it will be and I have assurances, to move into the DRI. So, first and foremost, I was, and I think that's why the promoters signed this, that people who are going to do their job are going to get a good reward. Certainly, the Board of Audit Institutions, as someone who will decide on their work, should have a higher salary. I see he's doing the same thing. The situation in Serbia is a little more difficult than it was in earlier years, and therefore we have not made bids on whether it will be 20, 30 or 50%. Thirty percent higher wages on what auditors are getting came as a result of the agreement and negotiations that the systematization that exists in the DRI will not undermine the integrity of the DRI Council or the people who are going to do so. That's why we thought it was good and that it should be in this percentage. Not because we think it's enough, too much and so on. I don't think it's too small, but the situation is that I think this is going to be decent for whoever works and decides in the DRI. I repeat once again that there was no problem with the Finance Committee. Support exists. I certainly must point out that we in the Committee are doing extremely well, that the president is cooperative. This time I also really agree with Mr Krasic's presentation in the work on the topic on the agenda today. I also agree, and I would like to repeat this time that the audit institution is often scrambling with what the audit institution is doing and what the budgetary inspection is doing. In doing so, there are internal auditors in the work of this audit institution, who have not yet developed, and we need to take care of that. The other day on the Finance Committee, we had a budget inspection report; I don't think it went lightly. But the same problem is with budgetary inspectors, and they don't have the right salary at the moment; they are under the Ministry of Finance and fall under the law that determines salaries for civil servants and tenants. Maybe we could have our own attitude there. This, however, was done in agreement with MPs, who had appropriate objections, and with the DRI, and I think it's a good proposal for this time and that we should all vote together. In the discussion, we showed that we support work and I think that if we continue to do good to Serbia, in every respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-20-0.u41255	The proposing representative, who I thank, has just called on all MPs to, in line with the atmosphere that was in the debate on this point, take part in the voting day and vote in favour of the proposal. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We'll be working on May 26th at 10:00 p.m. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 155 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 140 MPs are present in the hall. Since more than 126 MPs are present in the hall, and in the meantime more proposals for selection, appointment and resolution of functions have arrived in the assembly procedure, with a proposal to put them on the agenda during this session, the conditions for the National Assembly to declare in agreement with Article 165, paragraphs 3 and 5. The National Assembly. We move to a decision on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure during the session, pursuant to Article 165(3) and (5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 May 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 144 MPs, 138 were declared. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The G17 plus parliamentary group is based on Article 165(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda of this session be put on the agenda – a proposal to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 146 MPs, 138 voted in favour of this proposal. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is, on the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, and submitted that to the Assembly on 20 May 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 147 MPs, 140 were declared. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. We're continuing our work. We move to a single search of the 13th item of the agenda – a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the time of debate for parliamentary groups are five hours and distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 7 minutes and 24 seconds; to the G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; to the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; to the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina MP group – 8 minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - 6 minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Milos Aligrudic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no statements on the lists of MPs, before the conclusion of a single search, do I ask again if anyone who has not used the law of Article 93 wants to take part? No, I don't. I thank you. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia The time of the debate is five hours and is distributed in the way I have already informed you. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Susana Grubjesic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that no one is on the registered lists of parliamentary groups, so I am concluding a single search into the draft decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS You have received a proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the International Parliamentary Institutions, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly. You have received the amendment of MP Zoran Krasic. I remind you that according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours and is distributed as I have already informed you. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. The promoter doesn't want a word. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that there are no candidates registered on the lists of parliamentary groups, so I am concluding a unique search on the draft decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 26 May 2010, starting at 12.30 a.m. as voting day on all agenda points. You forgot that we're going to apply the Law on the National Assembly and we're going to have a solemn character and I'm scheduled to vote in 1200 hours today. Gentlemen, there is a suggestion that we move to the polls immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for deciding. We have working conditions. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Abuse I am working on a vote on the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Labour Abuse, in principle. The vote was 125, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill became an amendment of the People's MPs: Dusanka Plečević to Article 6, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic to Article 13, Aleksandra Janković to Article 15, Lidija Dimitrijevic to Members 16, 22 and 27, Radovan Radovanovic to Article 17, Nemanje Sarovic to Article 18, together Milan Dimitrijevic, Milice Vojić Marković and Aleksandra Pejčić to Article 19, Bojan Mladenov to Article 24, Dragan Stevanović to Article 35 and Milan Avramović to Article 36. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Milovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 129 MPs, one for. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, together Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic and MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of 131 MPs, two for. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The government has accepted the amendment. Of 133 MPs, 123 for. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 140 MPs, 8 voted for the amendment. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 139 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 138 MPs, three for. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The second amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 137 MPs, three for. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 137 MPs, three for. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 137 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. During the search in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Of the 137 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 5 and 5. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 136 MPs, 120 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 6th amendment together. Of 136 MPs, 7 for. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Of the 134 MPs, four voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 134 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 6. The government has accepted the amendment. Please let us plead with him. Of the 134 MPs, 123 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Milan Avramovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new title and a new member of the 6a. Of the 134 MPs, 26 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 134 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, four voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for this amendment. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 15th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 21st Amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 24th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 27. We'll get back to you on this amendment. We now declare the amendment to Article 24, which was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. We now declare the amendment to Article 27, which has been tabled by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs on Article 27. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 125 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic of 128 MPs, for one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 30. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 126. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Of the 128 MPs, for 26. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 31st amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 33. The government has accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, for 120. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 36. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 120 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 37. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. During the search in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 122 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 128 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 37a. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 122 voted for the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 38. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 119 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Dear People's MPs, since we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law on preventing labour abuse, in general. I'd like to make a statement about the bill. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the bill. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on preventing abuse at work. Before we move to a statement on the second item of the agenda, the draft law on volunteering, let me inform you that part of our today session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly is accompanied by a group of students of the "Mileva Marić" High School from the Titell and the "22nd October" High School of Frogs, accompanied by their teachers. Let me read their names: Dusan Bogojevic, Milos Cvetković, Tijana Petrovic, Brankica Sarkić, Jelena Todorovic, Jelena Živković, Allen Dišpiter, Stefan Stević, Željko Dešić, Milovanka Panić, Saša Lazarčev, Milica Milenković, Aleksandra Jovanovic, Snezana Pantić, Amanda Bajović, Nenad Jandrić, Svetlana Jovičić, Čedomir Ždrnja, Zorica Gerić, Radivoj Dejanović, Aleksandar Janoš, Aleksandra Krinokuća, Slavica Milinov, Milica Mišinski, Pavle Stojković, Ivana Kokoz, Milica Keleč, Jelena Beljin, Petar Bubnjević and Jovan Cavic. She is accompanied by the sociology professor Ines Bereš, members of the municipality council of Žablj: Maksim Srekovic, Dragica Dragin and Milena Isakovski, as well as the teacher Borislavka Mikeic. Let's say hello again. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE VOLONTATION LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the draft law on volunteering in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on volunteering on principle. Of the 128 MPs, 124 voted for the law in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to the vote, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is under Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure rejected as incomplete amendments by MP Zlata Djeric to Articles 7 and 12. Law proposals, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and not voted on, as well as that an integral part of the bill's proposal became an amendment of the People's MPs: Milice Vojić Markovic, Donke Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic to members 4 and 22, Snezana Stojanović to Article 10, Gordana Pavnović to Article 12, Zoran Popovic to Article 20, Donke Banović and Nikola Lazic to Article 23, Milice Vojić Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandr Pejčić to Article 23, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group to Article 24, Ivan Jovanovic to Members 25 and 32, and Zlata Djeric to Article 27. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we move to vote. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic Markovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanović Plassic, Elvira Kovac and joint MPs Zoran Ostojic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 129 MPs, 9 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic and joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 3. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 125 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Of the 129 MPs, three voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 11th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Elvira Kovac, Miljan Rangelovic and joint MPs Zoran Ostojić, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of 129 MPs, 7 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 120 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 116 is in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 11. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 115 for. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. Of 129 MPs, 9 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 116 for. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, two voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. Of 129 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 19th amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not accepted the amendment. Of 129 MPs, 110 for. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ivan Jovanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 24th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 25th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 25th Amendment were submitted by MP Elvira Kovac and joint MPs Zoran Ostojic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 129 MPs, 7. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 27th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, MPs Miljan Rangelovic and together MPs Zoran Ostojic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted. Of the 129 MPs, 8. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic and together by MPs Zoran Ostojic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 129 MPs, 9. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 29th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 30th Amendment were submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic and together by MPs Zoran Ostojic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 129 MPs, three voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 32nd amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure have submitted an amendment to Article 34. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Dear People's MPs, since on the one hand, the National Assembly has accepted an amendment to the 11th group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia", and on the other, given that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become an amendment to the 10th National MP Snježana Stojanović Plassic, I have been informed by the National Assembly that the situation referred to in Articles 146 and 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the need for the National Assembly to halt the adoption of the draft law in general in order to adopt amendments with the text of the draft law and to amend which disagreements are being removed. Accordingly, I am setting a five-minute break and I am asking the MPs of the board to take active part in the work in the scheduled time.
