ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41293	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I would ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that there are working conditions in the Hall of 90 MPs. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Dejan Radenkovic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the proposing Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, I would like to inform you that I have invited the sittings to attend and Milica Drazic, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, who I welcome. We are moving to a unique search of the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the founding of the REGION School for State Administration (RESPA) You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 152 paragraph 3, and in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, and that is: Parliament's Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; MP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Zoran Bortic – MEP Group SPS-JS; MP Jovan Palalic – Parliamentary Group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP Jovan Nesovic – MEP Group G17 plus; MP Aleksandar Martinović – SRS MP. According to Article 152, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the draft law confirming the Agreement establishing the Regional School for State Administration. Does the proposer's representative, Mr Milan Markovic, Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41294	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Thessaloniki Agenda for the Western Balkans, as early as 2003, urged the countries of the region to form a regional mechanism to improve public administration training and education to be ready for the European integration process. The idea of setting up a Regional School for State Administration was established in 2006, when a Protocol was signed on the establishment of a school, and the RESPE Treaty was signed by Albania, BiH, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia at the end of 2008, creating a basis for institutionalising Respa and its transition to a second phase of existence, an international organisation. Meanwhile, RESPA has begun organising training with EU funds. Its headquarters is decided to be located in Danilovgrad, Montenegro, and as soon as the agreement is ratified by at least five parties to the contract, this document will enter into force. RESPA will become a legal entity, an international organisation aimed at strengthening the co-operation of state administrations in the region, strengthening relations with EU countries and members of the European Economic Area, developing administrative capacities, which are one of the conditions for European integration and strengthening human resources in line with the principles of European administrative space. Jobs of co-ordination of Serbia's participation in Respa's 2007 activities meant to date the election of representatives of Serbia's state administration to participate in training organised in the countries of the region, annual conferences of Respa, international conferences and summer schools in Bruž and Luxembourg. Only from January 2009 to June 2010 did about 60 civil servants from Serbia undergo different training programmes organised by RESPA. The training covered different topics, starting from training on governance in administration, strategic management, to training in the field of EU public policy impact on national and public policies, regulation making, human resources management, etc. It is particularly important that Serbian civil servants participate in prestigious European summer schools in Bruges and Luxembourg, whose programmes cover different aspects of the EU, its institutions and policies. The participation of the Republic of Serbia in Respa is extremely important from the aspect of EU integration, as regional co-operation is one of the conditions for EU membership. The EU has continued to support the establishment of Respa, which is also highlighted in the conclusions of the European Council. Therefore, although one of the main activities of Respa is the professional training of civil servants of its members, the importance of Respa cannot be seen only from the point of view of training but must be assessed in the wider context of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union. In addition, as RESPA aims to become a core for increasing institutions in charge of training of civil servants in the region, to build on domestic training programmes, in particular from the aspect of EU integration, as well as to carry out an advisory function of adapting the administration of its members to the needs of EU membership, the development of Respa is in line with the policy of the Republic of Serbia in the area of state administration reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41295	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's reporters want a word, Mr. Bosko Ristic and Vlatko Ratkovic? (No) Does MP Petar Jojic, who delivered his opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? Mr. Jojic is not here. Does the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet, which has issued an opinion on the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the formal reason why I gave my opinion is the fact that we only got this bill one working day before this session started. That is indeed the manner of the ruling majority. It's already getting sassy and rude. We have no other way to fight it, but to inform the public of how this congregation majority actually works. The second reason, a fundamental reason, and more seriously, is that the SRS believes it is absolutely unnecessary for the state of Serbia to conclude this agreement on the establishment of a regional school for the state administration. The minister said, and the explanation says, that seven states are signatories to this agreement, but it certainly needs to be said which states they are. These are: the Republic of Albania, BiH, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia and the UN Interim Administrative Mission in Kosovo, which steps forward on behalf of Kosovo in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244, in the presence of the European Commission. This, right, stands in the light of the bill of this law. We think it is becoming too dangerous that we are a little bit more and more open-minded in parliament to propose laws in which a signator is someone on behalf of the self-proclaimed and false state of Kosovo and in a situation where officials of European forces are increasingly drawing attention to us that Serbia will not enter the EU unless it accepts the fact they accept, that Kosovo is an independent state, we are playing with such laws with someone who does so on behalf of the false state of Kosovo. It's absolutely unacceptable for the SRS. Should we remind ourselves that a conference was held a few days ago in Sarajevo, where representatives of Serbia also sat next to representatives of the fake state of Kosovo and then, God, they say they will not write in front of them what state they represent but only a name and name. The public of Serbia needs to know that this is already becoming very dangerous and that you from the ruling majority are increasingly leaning towards the fact that, slowly, step by step, in fact, and accept this self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. On the other hand, we believe that you are degraded with this agreement and education in Serbia, as well as people who have been educated and who have gained working experience in the work of the authorities of the state administration, so we do not see why someone would go to education on how to apply the law in Serbia. You said, Minister, that, I don't know, 60 employees in the state administration were in some kind of education, but since the centre of this Respa, as you called it, in Montenegro, in Danilovgrad, then probably, you take care when in winter you educate these to be on the Frog, and in the summer period to be, let's say, in Herceg Novi, people have a good time and to rest on state spending. Also, citizens, and above all, government employees need to know that this teaching of someone who has perhaps been working in the state administration for 20 years is costing 12 million dinars. You, at the same time, threaten to fire tens of thousands of government employees and, now, imagine that you've put these 12 million dinars into a budget in order to earn these people how much family you'd spare if they didn't run out of bread, that someone who works in the state administration still remains... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... at your job, and you're completely needlessly spending state money... (President: Time. Thank you. )......................................................................................................... to get someone...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41297	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41298	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, starting with the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law contained in Article 97(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 99(1) of the Constitution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, shall have the obligation to confirm international contracts when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them. In that sense, the draft law on the confirmation of a regional administration school agreement, RESPA, is one of the important rules on our country's path to European integration. The initiative to set up a Regional School for the State Administration, RESPA, was launched at the EU and Western Balkan countries' Thessaloniki summit in June 2003. The aim of this initiative is to strengthen regional co-operation in the areas of state administration, administrative capacity, human resources development and the adoption of the basic principles of the European administrative area. The goal is for RESPA to become a regional forum for training civil servants from the Western Balkan countries, to network state administrations from the region and to ensure the process of exchange of experiences of state administrations of Respa member states. A constitutional conference was held in Brussels in May 2006 at the ministerial level, which signed a Protocol on Co-operation to create a Regional School for State Administration. The protocol was signed by representatives of the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, BiH, the then state union of Serbia-Montenegro and particularly representatives of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, as well as a representative of UNMIK on behalf of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. The protocol is signed in the presence of the European Commission. According to this protocol, preparations for the institutionalisation of Respa, i.e. the establishment of a seat for the establishment of a legal basis for future work. In January 2008, according to an election procedure, the Supervisory Board, as the managing authority of Respa, decided to be the headquarters of the Regional School for State Administration in Danilovgrad, Montenegro. Following the establishment of the headquarters, activities were launched to prepare the draft international agreement establishing a Regional School for State Administration, including the preparation of Letters of Purposes concerning the establishment of this school. The letter of intent was signed in June 2008 in Slovenia, and this act expressed the support of Respa member to agree, confirm and sign an international agreement establishing RESPA as an international organisation. Following the signing of this act, the text of the international agreement with experts on the international right of all participants in these negotiations has been agreed. The agreement was agreed in Paris on 28 and 29 July 2008, except for its financial provisions, which were subsequently agreed in Podgorica on 11 and 12 September 2008. The agreement on the establishment of a Regional School for State Administration was signed in Podgorica on 21 November 2008 and signed by all participants, except for the authorised UNMIK representative, who was to sign on behalf of the provisional government of AP Kosovo and Metohija, and on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 1244. In this way, normative conditions for the start of the regional school for state administration based in Danilovgrad, Montenegro, were acquired as international institutions. In order for this school to start working and accomplish its function, i.e. through the Respa process, to ensure that the work of local government authorities in the countries of the region is brought closer to its normative order to EU countries, which is more difficult, is needed for its entry into force and full application to be ratified by five members. Since the Agreement has been confirmed by four members, it is necessary for its implementation to be confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore this law is also put into practice as a matter of urgency. The failure to pass this law could produce harmful consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations in the process of joining our country's EU. This, a team earlier, that regional co-operation is one of the commitments the Republic of Serbia has made to the European Union and that the European Commission has seen progress in its 2009 report. Dear fellow MPs, the objectives of the Regional School for State Administration, as international organisations, are aimed at improving co-operation in the field of state administration among the members of the signatories of this Agreement. This co-operation will ensure the strengthening of experience and exchange of information with EU Member States and the European Economic Area. The work of this school will strengthen administrative capacity in the state administrations of Respa, in line with the needs of the European integration process. At the same time, human resources will develop significantly in the state administrations of Respa, according to standards and principles of state administrations in EU countries. A large part of Respa's activities will be focused on the different types of training of the students of this school, who will be trained for this area and which are important for the issue of our country's EU integration, as well as for the issue of reform of our state administration, the RESPA function will not be exhausted only on this. On the contrary, our country's participation in the Respa activities is also very important from the point of view of the integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU. It should be borne in mind that RESPA will also represent an advisory forum for administrative reform and the development of the administrative capacities of all its members in the EU accession process. Therefore, the participation of the Republic of Serbia in further institutionalisation and implementation of Respa's activities is extremely important because it contributes to faster integration into the EU, which has also set good co-operation with countries in the region as one of the conditions for membership. It should also be noted that the confirmation of the Agreement establishing a Regional School for State Administration based in Danilovgrad is listed as one of the priority activities of the European Commission for 2009 and 2010. It should also be recalled that the budget of the Republic of Serbia has provided funds for this year for the implementation of this law, which will ensure that our country implements its share of financial commitments in the financing of Respa, based on Article 23. Agreement establishing the basic budget of Respa for each member in 2010. Starting with the fact that the government's strategic goal, determined by citizens' will in the 2008 elections, is to join full EU membership, this law is only one in a series of normative obligations that we should meet on that path. The harmonisation of our standards with the European equalisation of normative and human resources in the field of state administration will contribute, along with other standards, to Serbia's faster integration into the EU. Starting with these facts, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will support the bill in a voting day. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41299	I thank Ambassador Bortic. I give my word to the MP John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41300	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the issue of the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, in the National Assembly it only opens up in those situations where talks are being held and when issues of Serbia's relations with individual international institutions are being discussed. The last serious debate on this subject was ahead of the conclusion of the IMF agreement, when the issue of reducing employees in the state administration was considered, and, now, as stated here in the light of the proposal for this law, for European integration and, as it is said, for better regional co-operation. I think that the issue of the state administration of the Republic of Serbia is the issue that we should discuss here together for the realisation of the fundamental rights of citizens, for the more efficient work of state authorities, and we should see what state administration is at and at what level it is, on the one hand, when it comes to the exercise of citizens' fundamental rights in administrative procedures before state authorities, and, on the other hand, to what extent the strong capacity of the state administration is realised, so that what is stated in this bill, the state of Serbia can realise the joint assets of the EU and thus meet one of the Copenhagen criteria for European integration. But when it comes to this bill, there are many open and controversial issues concerning both the international organisation's headquarters and the financing of this international organisation, and also what is listed here as a privilege, the immunity of the international organisation's officials. But before we look at the issue of the state administration of the Republic of Serbia and the importance of such a bill, when it comes to the realisation of strengthening the capacity of the state administration, staff training and effective work. I must say that the issues of state administration reform have been launched since 2004, they continue today. A series of important system regulations have been adopted. However, the issue of the state administration and the problem of functioning of the state administration was seriously raised as a problem when the number of employees was raised and, in this respect, the efficiency of the work of the state administration. To remind you, this National Assembly has passed the Law on determining the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, which, on the one hand, aimed at reducing public spending, and on the other hand, here the representatives of the ministries assured us that this would certainly contribute to better and better efficiency of the work of the state administration and state authorities. However, even after that period, periods since the law was passed, it cannot be said that the state administration has achieved the level expected and expected by citizens. On the other hand, we have no information, and it would be good if the National Assembly had that information – how this bill was implemented in the first place, i.e. How were the obligations made by the competent state authorities, primarily by the ministry, under this law? How have the criteria for reducing the number of employees been established? Have the systematization acts been brought in? Has the evaluation been done in all the ministries? If that's not the case, are those ministers and those government officials punished, according to the provisions of the law we have here? It is absolutely certain that this job, we also saw during the last negotiations with the IMF, was not realised, and it was another fog that was thrown in front of citizens and in front of international institutions that we will succeed in reducing our administration and making it effective. I fear that the state in which the state administration is located cannot respond primarily to citizens, and, on the other hand, it cannot respond to those obligations that the state has undertaken in the process of European integration. I am not sure whether the government's representatives are aware of what expectations are and what the authorities of the state administration should do in order to meet the basic criteria of applying the EU's common flows. That the government does not have a clear picture of it, says the fact that when it is formed, as it is said, the Co-ordination Body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Serbia's EU accession, there is no Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government in the body. And it is precisely the state authorities and the state administration that are expected to bear the greatest burden of the job. In addition, the question raised about the state administration, as well as this bill, is the relationship between the authorities and the services formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in particular I mean the Staff Management Service, as a government service, which has an extremely important task to carry out the education of civil servants in order to carry out the basic tasks of the state administration and this work that will be done when the National Assembly ratifys this law. So far, what has the Government of the Republic of Serbia done to manage personnel? How many officers are dressed? By what methodology? By what criteria? What's the effect of that training? Will the Government Department of Staff Management stop working and to what extent will it stop working? What will her relationship be with this international organization that will now be formed? It would certainly be better if these 12 million dinars, which is allocated to this international organisation, could be used, among other things, to train state administrations and civil servants in our state administration, according to the methodology of the Human Management Service, because this service is incomparably better aware and has an unmatched better overview of the situation in individual authorities of the state administration. It's a question that needs to be discussed here, at the very end of the line, as well as a response from the government's representatives here in the National Assembly today. The state of government, the functioning of the state administration, is not at that level that we can be pleased with. The question is – to what extent can this be improved by the formation of such an international organisation, unless we have a clear picture of what has been done with the reduction of the number of employees in the state administration, which the government has promised, and how does training currently work in the authorities of the state administration, in order to improve the capacity of the state administration? Also, the question raised about this law is the headquarters of this international organisation. Indeed, we did not get a clear answer, nor do we have clear criteria why Montenegro was chosen and why Danilovgrad was chosen. I think, however, after all the reforms that were made in 2004 on the state administration plan, the state administration of the Republic of Serbia is in better shape and has better capacity and efficiency than a large number of countries in the region, so it would be natural, given the size of the state and given the state of government, that Belgrade should be the headquarters of such an organisation. I would like to get an answer – why did the government representatives not fight for Belgrade to be the headquarters of this international organisation, but rather for it to be Danilovgrad, with all due respect? But I am not sure that the state of government in Montenegro is so high quality or that it is more quality than the state of the Serbian state administration, and in particular, it is a small place that should be the headquarters of a regional organisation, with such institutional capacities and this extent of funding. To remind you, all countries that are signatories to this agreement and representatives of the provisional international administration at KIM, UNMIK, should finance this international organisation. Of course, it is an important question – why are privileges and immunities foreseen for the representatives of this international organisation? I know that according to the current international conventions, this is possible, but the question is raised – what will the representatives of this international organisation work in the countries of the region, in particular the state of Serbia, in order to ensure that they have this degree of protection of their activities, to prevent any possibility, among other things, of the state of Serbia, from pursuing appropriate procedures if there is a breach of the law and, in the end of the line, of committing a criminal offence? I think it is absolutely unnecessary to give this degree of protection, given to the representatives of this international organization. What also falls into the eyes is the explanation that we have received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of this law and that argument that we have in the preamble of this law. The preamble to this international agreement discusses the need to improve the state administration in the States of the signatories of this international agreement, with co-operation with the European Commission i.e. In addition to the good practice that exists in the EU and EU countries, to ensure that this Good Practice is implemented in the state administration of the Republic of Serbia and other States of the signatories of this Agreement, so that they are able to apply the rules adopted in the Republic of Serbia tomorrow, which represent the EU's common fluid. While there is, in particular, no word in the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. It is said that the law is necessary because of regional co-operation. Now there's a question of real intent on why this law is being passed. Is it being brought in to establish one procedure that would lead to the strengthening of the state administration in the Republic of Serbia or to serve someone to wave how, therefore, Serbia still manifests its good will to have regional co-operation? The regional co-operation is linked to the story of European integration. And, in general, the reasoning of the law is so well understood that it says that this is given because Serbia is moving faster towards the EU, in order to realise the processes of European integration, and right here, we have the most controversial issues and problems that, unfortunately, we do not talk about in this National Assembly for two years. The key political problem Serbia has, and this is a question of the relationship between the European integration of the Republic of Serbia and the preservation of its territorial integrity, we are not talking in the National Assembly. We adopt a series of laws, explain them to the needs of European integration. They are, if the difference is made between a political aspect, technical nature. They may be needed to increase standards in all segments of our state and social life, but we are not opening a debate on the political problem we have in terms of European integration. And that is the question -- can the Republic of Serbia, after all the statements we are listening to these days, participate in European integration so that its territorial integrity is not questioned? We have a fundamental dispute with the EU on our territorial integrity, because the substance of the state, territorial integrity, the functioning of individual EU members is at stake. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to see representatives of Eulex, who came to Kosovo with the consent of the RS government, this government, plead on this big issue. Let me remind you, when this government said that Eulex should come because it would be status neutral, we indicated that it was not true. Yesterday, Peter Feith said he expects, since he is confident there will be a mixed verdict by the International Court of Justice, to follow a new wave of recognition of Kosovo. This is said by the EU's High Representative in Kosovo, who you said was statusally neutral. He is obviously rooting for as many states as possible to recognise Kosovo. And we, in this situation, insist on the story of European integration in this technical sense, without even touching this political issue in the National Assembly. Then the question arises – to what extent is all this sincerely arranged and to what extent does the Government of the Republic of Serbia know or not know what the scope of this policy of European integration, if the previous issue, can be said conditio son of quo of our non-EU path has not been discussed? Therefore, an urgent need should be opened in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss this issue, the political problem that exists or you can say that there is no and that is a legitimate position, we think that there is, and only when the issue is discussed, when a clear answer from the EU is received, to move towards the realisation of this national plan for Serbia's EU accession, which is now being promoted in every way possible. At the end of the line, without a preliminary debate on the issue, Deputy Prime Minister Djelic brings answers to the imaginary questionnaire without having discussed the issue previously. The second question is this technical problem relating to the capacities of the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, yes, once we have discussed this, and if we are, we should be able to review the EU's joint assets and, in general, be able to meet those Copenhagen criteria, which means there is a capable state administration and justice that will implement the regulations that are adopted here. We'll talk about the judiciary when Minister Malovic arrives, today or tomorrow. What problems we have here, especially in the light of this European integration policy. But now we are talking about the state administration and that it is necessary to see clearly where the authorities of the state administration are, what is the training of civil servants, what is the knowledge of this huge business of tens of thousands of regulations, the directive, orders, guidelines, guidelines, everything that the EU authorities bring. Therefore, this agreement, as proposed, has a series of shortcomings. We told you what it was about. It is necessary for the state administration in the Republic of Serbia to be promoted, that the Good Practice that exists in EU countries where this administration functions effectively, primarily for the benefit of citizens in the realisation of their rights to state authorities, that it also works effectively, quickly, impartially, that is the need. It would be very important, and I expect the minister to propose a new law on administrative procedure in order to discuss it in the next period, because it is a very important system law and that the more often we discuss this issue, in the extreme line, to get a report on what is wrong with this law on the maximum number of employees, because I am afraid that law was absolutely unnecessary. I think the credibility of Serbia's state to pass such a law is collapsing, that it is then not implemented, and that then, before international institutions, the willingness to make the state administration effective. I know Minister Markovic did not participate in the draft law, at the very end of the line, nor did he participate in the debate on the bill. Those who have done so should come here and give information about what has been done, and we have enough information that nothing has been done. Serbia needs an efficient state administration, a strong and impartial one that solves citizens' problems faster, that citizens do not wait for their rights to be realised, it is primarily necessary for Serbia and its citizens, and after the political problem that exists between Serbia and the EU is discussed, it can be discussed to what extent its capacity will be raised to apply EU joint assets in our legal system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41301	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41302	A lot of what the esteemed colleague Palalic said is basically a topic that should be discussed, and it is certainly true that the state administration should be much more and probably much different to talk about than it is practice in our public life. Of course, we can't be having a debate about the general state of the government right now, but I certainly owe you a few answers to your exposure. I fully agree with your assessment that if there was already a question of where this regional school will be based, it should be in Belgrade. Comparatively, by our conviction and by the arguments we've made, we're confident that we deserve that seat. The capacity of the state administration in Serbia, a legal framework that defines the state administration in Serbia, especially the Law on State officials and the State Administration Reform Strategy with its basic postulates, still put Serbia above all other signatories of this school. Of course, without intending to offend others, but simply that is our impression, not only of our own, but of many international experts, that Serbia is far or at least far ahead of the other members of the Respa party when it comes to the development of the state administration. So, we were really fighting, it was a great desire to get to the point of being a school with us. It was during the previous government, but the Respa Supervisory Board, which consists of representatives of member states, chaired by a representative of the European Commission, simply voted on us. We had fewer votes than Montenegro. I suppose it's also a political decision, not just based on these criteria. Let's just say, it's interesting to say that we had a secure and building for Respa, until Montenegro had a secure building. I'm talking about technical details now. The second detail, for example, was close to traffic infrastructure, roads, where we were again, also, far ahead, but that was the decision. The previous government was aware of everything. As much as we could, we fought, but somewhere along the border there are. So we didn't make it. As for the training of our civil servants, the professional training program is being developed by the Staff Management Service. It is based on the ministry's proposals and adopted by the government. If you want to rephrase this in the form of a parliamentary issue, then I will arrange for the Staff Management Service to provide an answer so that you have a comprehensive insight into how training and training of civil servants are going and what are the topics. President, if he can, let him take the form of a question, since I don't know how to answer exactly what it is in the Staff Management program. As far as the state of government is concerned, it is indisputable better than is expected. Our state administration, in some ways, inherited the rules of conduct of work from that old state administration, inherited this from the SFRY, etc. However, Belgrade was the administration headquarters. We today have one approach to the state administration by the public, politicians - opposition, positional, which, in my opinion, is to a good extent populist and deeply wrong and leads to our state administration being safely on one path of weakness. So we have negative trends in our state administration that are due to the general public's relationship to the state administration, to the civil servant and the fact of poverty. As long as we base our policy on the wrong assumption that in 2000 there were 8,000 people, and today 28,000, and as long as the main issue of the state administration is the number of employees in the state administration, then we can hardly talk about serious politics and serious access to the state administration. The emissaries are getting out of place. I can't discuss it with you, I just can't concentrate, I'm gonna hang up, it's not a problem...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41303	I'd really like to ask you not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41304	I want to say to this occasion that the last precise fact we have since 2003 was that only 1,360 people worked less than at the state administration level now, but we are talking about the state administration and when we talk about local self-government. It's our fault, and it's the state administration's fault when some procedures are long, which are due to who knows what kind of legal solutions. It's up to us to have a government when we have countless public agencies. This has nothing to do with the government. So we have this wrong approach that most people don't know what state administration is and how many people make up government. It is completely wrong to think that a reduction in the number of civil servants will save Serbia. So, the same job that's now doing 28,000 is supposed to work better if it works 26,000, and our public sector is 500,000 people, but it all comes down to the fact that the problem is 5% of those who work in the state administration. It is an approach that is characteristic of our political scene and that has unequivocally equal participation in both government and opposition. So both the government and the opposition are the factors of that approach. It's too serious a story that should be kept out of the public's sight, because as soon as it's led in front of the public, then it's subject to the need for demagogy, for pulsism, for getting cheap political points. We have defined ourselves at this point that we need to know that there is no strong state administration without money. On the labour market, the state administration is at the bottom of the scale. If it wasn't for this crisis right now, this is good for the state administration which is this crisis because some quality frame still comes, otherwise, when there's no crisis, a little bit of quality will come to work in the state administration. You can't expect a young and ambitious man to come work in the state administration with a starting salary of 32,000 and with a lot of luck for 20 years to have 64,000, but that's it. So, when he comes in, he's 32, and when he's done, there's 64, 65 grand, and that's what he needs to hope for, that's what he needs to be trying to do, especially today, especially when it's too risky to say that you're working in a ministry. People don't like to hear that their neighbor, for example, is an assistant minister or advisor to the ministry, etc. So that's the state we live in, and that's the trends that follow the government at this point. What is what we do and what do we think is most important at this point? It's the establishment of an electronic administration. So we're trying as many services as possible and as many actions as possible at the state administration level to go by electronic means. In particular, our goal is that by the end of this government's term, citizens should not be intercessors between different counters. You want to get married, then go to the municipality and say, "Give me a copy of the birth certificate, and then give that same copy to the counter to that counter and say, "Here is my request for a wedding." Unfortunately, it's a practice now. Although it seems to be easy to solve, it is not easy to solve because we do not have a central database, there is no unique database on citizens. Moreover, there are different bases for different authorities of the state administration. Therefore, our goal is to electronically connect all the authorities of the state administration, to create databases on citizens and thus save huge money for the state and invaluable time for the citizens themselves. In this regard, to enable access and to make citizens' rights to state authorities really simple. In that sense, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Parent Books, which I believe is the most significant law in the development and reform of the state administration in Serbia. Under this law, we will establish unique databases and electronically connect all authorities of the state administration to this unique system. It will be a model by which all other state authorities, as well as bodies of local self-government units, will be able to function, and citizens will be deprived of the many procedures that they now have to fulfil in order to exercise their right. For example, you want to take a passport. We are going to the local self-government unit today and we are taking assurance of citizenship, which is the entrusted job of the state administration, the MUP, so we are going to the same unit of local self-government or others, and now they can go to the same one, because it is connected to the central system, but it has often been that the man in Kruševec takes out one, into Negotina another, and in Belgrade he comes looking for a third. It was a practice until a few months ago, until we released this system into operation, although it still applies to one number of our citizens that old practice, because not all local self-government units have yet to connect. Now imagine the absurdity, take the credentials of citizenship to Kruševec, and then go to Negotin and take a copy of the birth certificate, and collect it all, and go to Lermont, and apply for the issue of passports. That's what it looked like and that's how it's been working here for 60 years. Fortunately, we have come to this stage that we will address this issue and establish a state administration on some of the principles that should characterize the government in the 21st century. I think it's a great achievement for both the government and the ministry that came up with it and is working on it, and this second segment regarding our relationship with the state administration, the quality of officials, the attractiveness of the state administration's labour market, is probably something that will one day come on the agenda, but hopefully it won't be too late. Because it would be a shame to have this comparative advantage that we have over our neighbors and which means that we have a pretty good capacity for the state administration, that it melts over time, and there's a real possibility of melting. I think this school and this training will come in handy and it doesn't need to go from assuming what's perfect. They're perfecting themselves just by taking experience and exchanging experiences with those who are ahead of us at the state administration. As you can see, in Chapter II, Article 4 of this Treaty, the law that we are now ratifying, in point 2), says that the essence of this exchange is with the Member States, which is very important to us. This European administrative space is much, conditionally speaking, foreign to us. Many of us follow, read, try to see what it is, but it is not a situation like when we have some European document that very precisely defines the elements and then you enter into the frame of these elements and it is easy, and here it is not. This will be, in my opinion, very useful. Once again, I'm sorry he's not in Belgrade, it would mean enough for our international reputation, but he's in Montenegro. It has nothing to do with what it is. There it is. It is important that our people train to be in line with these global, European trends. In the end, our laws on civil servants and the state administration, as well as most of the laws, are not originally created, they are created here, but the very ideas that exist there are ideas that have been created by the exchange of experiences, opinions, conversations with people who have passed this time or who have yet to pass it, by exchanging experiences based on good or bad results that have been achieved by applying these solutions. As for the maximum number of employees, you know I don't have that information. You yourself said I wasn't involved in it, so you can also ask that part of the question, so you get an answer, but not from me. Under the laws adopted by the Assembly, our ministry is not authorized to follow and apply these laws. One more thing, very important, should be kept in mind that this regional school for the state administration has not been created now. This all started in 2003, as an idea. The protocol was signed when I was in the opposition, and dear colleagues, you were in the government. Protocol, protocol is signed then. So I don't think you've done anything wrong. What's more, I think this is good. It's for the public. This is one process where we as a state have the continuity of our, conditionally said and foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41305	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, let me inform you that part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly will be followed by members of the delegation from Germany and the Office of Staff Management of the Government of Serbia – participants of the seminar for professional training of civil servants, including: Frank Becker, Renate Kramer, Julia Miller-Helman, Ralph Malhin, Anke Fraybert, Gert Shaudema, Patris Šmic, David Šajnke, Tatjana Dragosavac, Ksenija Mitrić and Dragan Simić. Let's give them a round of applause. We're going back to work. I give my word to Mr. Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41306	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are facing today a law confirming an international agreement on the establishment of a Regional School for State Administration (RESPA). To me, this is one of the very important regional agreements between the Western Balkan countries. The aim of this agreement is to improve co-operation in public administration areas among countries, which means raising the administrative capacity of public administrations, which, on the other hand, means strengthening human resources, and all in line with the EU's administrative space. What is also important is that every country in the EU integration process, including Serbia, should pay particular attention to strengthening public administration, which means that a modern, efficient, professionalised public administration must be created, because it needs to make the way towards European integration much easier. One such public administration should help, especially the economy, to get a competitive economy, because our economy in the future will have to go to the EU market and it will not be easy for it at all. State officials – special attention should be paid to them. One thing that needs to be done in the future is to raise awareness among officials, both at the local and at the republican level, that education and learning is a process that needs to be given special attention in the coming period, and that means that public administration reform, which is being implemented, without new knowledge of public officials, will not be easy at all. These two processes have to go parallel. The countries in the environment, as well as Serbia, will have to allocate significant resources to raise the quality of the knowledge of people working in public administration and will have to allocate significant resources for long-term training of these people. I say, without training people in public administration and institution reform, these two processes cannot be seen separately. Simply, reforming the state administration without these two segments is almost impossible. If we want to create a successful public administration, then all employees must be able to train, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, have the obligation to go to those trainings, because these two things have to be fully connected. What has been defined by the state of Serbia in the EU Accession Strategy is special attention being given to public administration. It has been defined that people working in the state services must acquire specific tighter knowledge related to individual EU legal assets. On the other hand, they must acquire knowledge related to co-ordination of the European integration process. On the third hand, as many civil servants as possible must undergo training on the basic elements of the EU's functioning. Finally, the fourth thing that has been defined in the EU Accession Strategy is the integration of civil servants and institutions from our country to similar institutions from countries in the environment or EU countries, in order to use examples of good practice, i.e. the good experiences they have had among themselves. So, this co-operation must be with countries in the region, because they have done some processes so far, it must be with EU countries. After all, there is one more thing, and that is internal co-operation, and that is co-operation between the republican level and the locals, because I am absolutely sure that without education and officials working in local self-government, European integration will be more difficult, and the imperative is that we meet certain conditions that are on that path as soon as possible and defined. Regional co-operation is important and this is particularly defined in Serbia's EU accession process, because without regional co-operation this road is impossible and this project and this agreement should be seen in this context as an example of good regional co-operation with countries in our environment and the fulfillment of certain activities defined in the EU Accession Strategy. What seems to me to point out is that the Regional School's goal for State Administration is to improve co-operation in the field of state administration between the countries that are members of this regional school. On the other hand, strengthening the administrative capacity of state administrations in countries through co-operation with EU countries. The third thing is the development of human resources and all of this needs, in some way, to bring us in the future, both in the countries in the environment and in the state of Serbia, to get a professional, responsible and efficient state administration. Someone said, the minister said that the biggest activities that are related to this school are related to training and this should lead to key things that are important that in the coming period, not only in Serbia but also in the countries in the environment, we simply have good state administrations that can respond at a time when the state and function of the Respa idea has not started to think about the process since yesterday, and in the context of the document "The Thessaloniki Programme for the Western Balkans" has been defined that countries in the region should define such an international state institution that will deal with the state administration. The continuation of these activities was in 2006 when a Protocol on the Co-operation and Creation of a School for the State Administration was signed in Brussels, signed by seven Member States, which are: the Republic of Albania, Montenegro, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the Republic of Serbia and UNMIK on behalf of the international organisation in Kosovo, respecting Resolution 1244 and the protocols defined that the development of the Regional School for State Administration should go through three phases. The first stage is to establish a network in these countries that have signed this agreement for the development of human resources and for strengthening the administration, all through training of government officials in EU institutions. So in 2007, 2008, the minister said in 2009, a large number of civil servants attended certain seminars of summer or winter school, a conference, and all this was tasked with deepening the knowledge of these people, especially knowledge related to European integration. A large number of civil servants have also been on trips, training in EU countries and have certainly been in direct contact with people in EU-based institutions able to establish certain skills they need to adapt our legislation, the work of the state administration, the EU's assets. What is also important is that we are now in that second phase, when institutionalization is carried out, that is, the creation of a regional school for the state administration. The headquarters is said to be in Montenegro, in Danilovgrad. We can like it or not, we need this school. The seat is there and we as the member who signed it must accept it. I don't see any reason why this is a big problem at this point, because the goal is much wider than where it will be the headquarters of that regional school for the state administration. And the final stage is the third stage, which is planned, is the formation of an academic institution at regional level, which I think is very important that in the next period it exists. It is important to say that so far four countries have ratified this agreement, and five countries are needed to apply it. I hope that the Serbian Parliament will ratify this agreement in the day to vote. On the other hand, we can legally say that this agreement can be applied, i.e. that this regional school for the state administration can work. On the other hand, there is often a question of the cost of these, let me say, international institutions, in this case, this school is an international institution. I think it is very fair to say that all states, regardless of the number of residents, which are signatories of this agreement, provide the same amount of money, which is 150 000 euros for 2010. The Serbian state's budget envisions 12 million, so additional funding will be needed. I do not see that this is a major problem because of the exchange rate differences and because of the greater amount of money that needs to be provided for the functioning of this school, which is the obligation of the Serbian state to resolve this in the finance ministry, so that the formal-legal condition is also easy to meet at the moment. I see no reason why this agreement should not be adopted and that the state of Serbia will help this school to work and use the benefits, as well as all the powers it has. There are several important things in the agreement that need to be said a few words. In Chapter II, these are the objectives for which this school was formed. He's got four goals. The first goal is to improve co-operation between Respa members in the area of state administration, between the countries of the region -- the Western Balkans. I think that we are all going through the same process, first it was a transition, and now joining the EU, that many of the experiences that we have had, which we have had, and other countries will have to do the same, make a very good use of those examples of good practice and not wander, spend money and time on some of the things that others have been solving. The second objective is to improve the exchange of information with EU Member States and European administrative space. It seems very important to exchange information with countries that have recently joined the EU, which is Romania, Hungary and Bulgaria. They have recently gone through a process that we are now going through and a lot of good information, useful information about the functioning of public administration can be used by them. Third, it is to strengthen administrative capacity in the state administrations of Respa, as required by the European integration process. I think it's something that's important, because we all have to go through this process and meet certain conditions, and it's much easier when we meet it together. The fourth thing is the development of human resources in the state administrations of Respa, in line with the principles of the European administrative space. I just said that without the development of human resources, education and continuous training of civil servants, we cannot get an effective and modern state administration, which requires EU membership. It's something we have to take care of in the next period. Chapter IV defines who the members are. It's these seven signatories. Observers and participants have been defined. Data is the possibility that countries that may be candidates for EU membership or those countries that provide certain donor funds for the functioning of the Respa may participate as observers at board meetings, as the highest body of Respa, but do not have the right to vote, which I think is very correct. And as for participants, these are countries that can be EU candidates and can participate in some Respa activities, because it is clear what the benefits of certain activities are, whether they are training, summer, winter schools, certain educations, which other officials from other countries can also use. The Highest Authority of Respa is the Management Board. Each state has one representative at the ministerial level. Data is the possibility that those countries that do not have ministries directly responsible for the state administration that an equivalent institution gives one representative each and are given the possibility to have one senior official and one deputy, certainly because of the operationality of the Board of Directors, since it is clear that the Management Board can meet more frequently without ministers being able to attend these boards over and over again. What is also defined as a secretariat as an executive body, an operational body that will lead the Respa. Budget, I said earlier, it is clear that all states, regardless of the number of inhabitants, provide the same value of the resources to function Respa. That's 150,000 euros for 2010. Finally, it is possible, under this agreement, that every country, if it assesses that it does not achieve the specific objectives of RESPA that it has drawn up, that it can step forward. Data is the possibility that it can come forward only at the end of the calendar financial year and it does not reduce your obligation that if you step forward at the end of 2010, you must pay your participation in 2010, because school has to work, which is clear, but you can step forward in 2010. I'm saying, if this school and this international institution don't meet the conditions that you set out in the state policy regarding public administration. I'm saying, looking at all the good sides, and I think there are really good sides here at least defined by the goals that the Regional School of State Administration is supposed to achieve. Seeing that the interest of the Serbian state is that the sooner the EU joins the EU, or to meet the conditions that are important for EU membership, I am absolutely sure that this school will make a full contribution to the formation of a more modern, more efficient and better administration and parliamentary group will vote for this agreement both in the voting day and calls on other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41307	Thank you. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41308	We are on the agenda of the Agreement establishing a Regional School for State Administration and in order to rationalise the time you have already used us to, I expected you to bring together a debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education with this Agreement. Someone will say it's not technically possible, because the Rules of Procedure prescribes otherwise. Basically, really, I think these two discussions have a lot to do with each other. We all advocate that we work and participate in public life or any other area involves continuous learning and education. However, the establishment of such a school to which we approach, in fact, represents the recognition that it is a constant learning and education in our internal system implemented through a system of wrong, inadequate or inadequate education system. Take that any of these three expressions I used – not enough, inadequate, but certainly we do not have an adequate education system, if continuing learning implies the establishment of one of these schools, which we, in fact, bring one part of the civil servants into an unequal position in relation to those that we will allow to go and school there. Without demagogy, precisely with the truthfulness of the allegations that I read from the bill, I claim that this is at least another, not an attempt, but another realized intention of the authorities, that a certain group of civil servants, or at the Judicial Academy of Future Judges, will lead to a privileged position, namely, which will have one other level, one other kind of education for which we have no established criteria, and therefore someone tomorrow will be able to attend that school and have this kind of specialist knowledge that will qualify him to work in the state administration. It's my first observation, in general, in a system of this kind of continuous education and learning that is necessary and which in some areas cannot be left to the will of an individual. Some of us have to keep learning and this is a system, but a system that isn't competitive enough for all those who should be able to access it. One more serious remark that has been made through one single amendment and brought to the entire parliament, we have made through the amendment to Article 1, where we have an objection in the way of presenting the part of the state of Serbia, which we call with law, the province of KiM, and which is in this book, which we have to carry in this home, is called the Constitution of Serbia, where in the preamble of KIM as a province is exactly what is called, and despite the Rules of Procedure that define our work and the Law on the Assembly, this is the first book from which everything must come. Since it is a single agreement that allows members who have joined, then when they decide and come forward, but that they previously settle their financial obligations, since it is possible to do, even, some changes in terms of how this school works and how it works, I simply think it is not about mere form, but about the possibility of this amendment being adopted and that this part of Serbia will be called what we owe, well, those who took the oath, as president, who will sign this law when it is adopted here, as members of the government who proposed this law to us and swore that they will stick to this book called the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, indeed, we expect that this amendment will be carried out. Thus, the silent acceptance of the name would mean that we, in fact, agree with the status that the province has in international relations and the recognition of some of the countries that in a very subtle way form us in training camps before joining the EU. I called the training camp CEFTU, and here, and this kind of education, this regional school is a training camp where we need to learn how to co-operate and talk, as if we can't do it otherwise. I insist on the seriousness of the objection we made to you through the amendment. And I expect the government to adopt this amendment before that final day of voting. If he does not, we will charge her with violating the Constitution, just as such a well-founded objection will fall on the burden of the President himself, if he signs this law without change, where KIM will be called as the Constitution requires. My discussion would certainly be much shorter on the very law on which I have objections, if the Minister of Local Self-Government hadn't opened, in an unusual way, the story of quality and the number of employees in the state administration. If, in the ministries and the state administration at all, the heads of the ministries and these bodies were people professional enough and with sufficient expertise, I'm sure, I have enough life and work experience to claim it, they wouldn't surround themselves with less capable and ignorant officials from the state apparatus, what we call state administration. Those who are professional, hardworking and long-standing public administration workers would not be afraid to overshadow the master, as this would endanger their own position. I draw my conclusion from these two claims that the quality of the state administration depends precisely on the quality of the people at the head of the authorities of the state administration, the ministry, the government and all others. Smart, hardworking, intelligent people are not afraid to have similar around them and to impose more criteria and thus provide citizens with better quality management. If we have people in the administration whose party book is the only qualification, loyalty and subjection the safest protection to stay in the chair, for which loyalty and loss of logic are at stake, then we also have a problem with bad government. Then it won't be worth a lot of involvement in these regional organizations, where some people are supposed to be educated or taught to talk to people from the nearest environment. The responsibility for the poor state administration is borne by all those who participate in it, and those who are party officials, party associates hire and have on the payrolls of state authorities, ministries and the like, who are not qualified to do the work of the government's authority and normally, use that number to be optimal, always suffer those which young people call 'valued ant'. There's a bass about a valuable ant that's very nice to talk about at a public service, where a valuable ant who can do anything, quickly achieves, should get controllers, those who will boast of his work, and those who will prescribe him new standards. When the number of those who want to boast of the effects of his work is multiplied, it comes at a time when the state administration needs to be rationalized and by the old good rule of who is excess, which is exactly the valuable ant, which has also contributed to the expansion of the state apparatus. The rationalization of the state administration to determine the maximum number of employees is the best evidence for that and several ministries, I would not now present concrete examples, just gave up people who have people very professional, capable and loyal professions and the state, but perhaps not to the very man at the head of that ministry, who have found themselves in a situation that now with some "unit" or even without reason leads administrative disputes, and we know how long and how long they last. As long as there's a dispute to live on, that's a very special question. Washing hands from the quality of the state administration by those who run the state administration is hypocrisy and argument that no one will accept. What is controversial in this law, in addition to the way part of the territory of the Serbian state is presented, is something to be learned. From Article 2, many of our state authorities could see what is considered to be the legal capacity of an institution that is forming. Article 2 where the school is defined as RESPA, it is said that – the legal capacity of that school has the ability to negotiate, acquire and dispose of movable and immovable assets and to initiate legal procedures. Many of the authorities of the administration do not have such a defined legal capacity, which is why we come very often, in the problem of their competences, the responsibilities of the authorities of the state administration they belong to and, most importantly, we have a problem with their means of availability of assets and incomes. The objective of forming such a school is written in Article 4 as co-operation between the members of the Respa, exchange of information and development of human resources in accordance with the principles of the European administrative space. On Article 4, I base my claim when I say - training camp for the EU, for the one that is our goal as a standard, not as a membership. However, if the School of State Administration means co-operation between members and exchanges of information, is it necessary for us to be members of a school where we will pay 150,000 euros for the exchange of information and co-operation, which we normally do in all fields? In the first year, 120,000 euros, I don't know if it's already been paid for 2009. How much are those trainings? How many of our officers are going to leave? How many seminars will it be, since we hear that this is the idea since 2003, which is practically realized in 2008? Whether and how many of our people will be employed in that secretariat that will operate on the work of this school of state administration, so that we know how much it will cost the job of someone from Serbia who will work in Danilovgrad, who will have some privileges, immunities, etc. Well, let's see if that's more than the Minister of Economy and Regional Development offers, two or three thousand euros per job? So we don't know. We have not been able to fight that as a regional leader we have the headquarters of that school in Serbia, and we are regional leaders, we all recognize it this verbally, but we haven't received concrete evidence in this case, but we had to get at least some sort of assessment from the government whether we're going to fight to have one of our own people employed and how many people are going to do it annually, how much training, at least as a plan, for this 150,000 euros a year. What is interesting is that the RESPA training system aims to improve the availability and quality of training and education systems in the Respa members. Can membership in a school like this improve the quality of training and education system in Respa? That's why I said that maybe there should be a single discussion of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education with this. Do the many universities we have, colleges, independent of the type of ownership, private, state etc, have programmes that have the capacity to have an education system that offers state administration, optimal or at least one that, through some long-term experience or short traineeship, will be able to meet the obligations of Serbian citizens? In 1981, I graduated from the economy and I admit that we did not have adequate practical knowledge from the education that was needed to work at school. I finished the economy, talked about the bill, and I didn't have the experience of doing a practical menu blank. At a worse time, when the key decided how many Serbs, Albanians, Turks or others would be employed, it was not worth much to me to be the best student, I had to get a job in then-oriented education and work at school as an economist, holding all the items in the economic field. With a higher level of theory, I went to lower theory level, talking to my students, high school students about the mediocre blank and the way it's being fulfilled, like if some housewife talked about cooking and making lunch, and she just read recipes, she never made one lunch. That later produced me a practical problem, that I had eight years of work experience at school, so I couldn't be an intern, because I had a working experience, but I didn't have adequate work experience. Do we now have conditions from 1981 to 2010, in some development of the educational system of the school, colleges offer to complete, university-educated people have a level of practical knowledge applicable in the field of state administration? This means we don't have it. We have a number of colleges, licensed, supplementals, etc., and again we have to, you're witnesses, to hire pensioners to do the work of the state administration. There are most of them with you. When I say to you, I mean the ministries and the government, where young people rightly wonder – and when they will be able to work, if many counselors are the authors of the laws that we adopt here, people who have received a pension, they have acquired all the prescribed conditions, but young people cannot replace them because they do not have practical skills to do this job. I see that my time is going fast, and I will only tell you that here I have a controversial exercise in the way of decision making, where through Article 11, decisions are said to be adopted unanimously, which is the principle – adoption in the EU, where we need to practice it. They obviously think that we cannot, although they say that we have the highest capacity to join the EU, that we do not seem to be able to negotiate, so here we will exercise unanimous decision-making, and we will be equally represented with one representative at a time in the Management Board of this state school. What's interesting? Each member of the Respa will have a minister or person equivalent to being a representative at board meetings. Here I find some pandan or equivalent to what is called the Council of Ministers at EU level. We've got people to send, but I don't know by what criteria. It says that there will be diversity in employment and that employment will be based on merit. Who will assess whether our people from here should be members of the board of directors, ministers or those represented as high officials are responsible? Who guarantees us diversity, that article 21 has prescribed impartiality, and I will say that it is only prescribed as a tendency, without any guarantee that this impartiality can be provided by these mechanisms. I think there's a lot of principles here -- I'm saying, and what I think is a particular question. We hope that behind this desire to be impartiality, diversity, there is one sincere desire and belief that Serbia will show that there are also capacities, but also the intention that these European standards, above all, reach and show amongst its first neighbours and members of this country, but with the condition that I set out at the beginning of the exhibition. So I believe that the price we pay for participation in this membership, of 150,000 euros, should be justified by the quality of the state administration and I want to believe, not to be suspicious, and it is up to you to show us, it is up to the citizens to assess. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41309	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that, first of all, you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, had to draw attention to Mr. Minister that the behaviour he practices in the National Assembly was not appropriate. He, a man, an hour ago, ended up with his embodies, ran to his friends from the DSS, laughing, laughing, and now he's probably sitting somewhere for coffee, or drinking juice or walking around town, instead of sitting here as an authorised representative of the government and listening to what the MPs have to say about a bill that's not naive at all and is not harmless. On the contrary, the content of this bill, or law if you adopt it in a few days, can have very serious consequences for the Republic of Serbia. But since I am not a detective and I have no idea that I am looking for a minister in the Assembly or in the city of Belgrade, I will address the lady sitting here in front of the ministry, who, if I am not mistaken, Milica Drazic. So, dear Mrs. Dražić, the bill we're talking about here today, as I said, is not naive at all and is not harmless at all. This isn't about mere counting when anything's signed, what month and what year. This is about the rights that can, indeed, have very difficult and inconceivable consequences for the state sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Well, let's get in line. Mrs. Dražic, I'll start with the reasoning of the bill. In an explanation on page 27, it is said: "A constitutional conference was held in Brussels in May 2006 at the ministerial level, where, between the countries and the entities of the Western Balkans, a Protocol on Co-operation was signed on the creation of a Regional School for State Administration. The protocol was signed by representatives of the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the SCG state union in general and especially for each of the republics of representatives of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as a UNMIK representative on behalf of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, in the presence of the European Commission." That's on page 27. Page 28 reads this: "The Agreement establishing a Regional School for State Administration (Respa) between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Governments of the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia and Montenegro was signed in Podgorica on 21 November 2008. Now, Mrs. Dražić, I'd like to have you, and in fact, I'd rather the minister explain it to us, but since, man, he's not physically present in the O.R., he's probably hot or he's got better things to do, so maybe there's a sale in town, what does this "entity of the Western Balkans" mean to you? The SRS, and I believe all the MPs sitting here, have heard of the term - entity only in one country in our environment. It's BiH. I did not notice that the agreement was signed by representatives of Republika Srpska or representatives of the Federation of BiH. So we can conclude that it's not about these entities. Now we from the SRS ask you, which entity do you mean? Which entity of the Western Balkans is the signator of this agreement? There is no other entity, Mrs Dražic, except the AP Kosovo and Metohija. We ask you - who gives you the right to put into the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a bill in which Kosovo and Metohija are treated not as it says in the Constitution, as the AP, but as an entity? Find me in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where any positive legal regulation states that Kosovo and Metohija are entities, of course, provided that this concept of entity refers to KIM. If it does not apply, tell us, what is the entity of the Western Balkans that is the signator of this agreement, or the previous 2006 Protocol? Next, Mrs. Dražic, I don't understand who the signatories of this agreement really are? On page 27, you say – the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and BiH, and on page 28 you do not use that terminology but you say – the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of BiH. I must remind you, as far as Macedonia is concerned, the official name of that country, which was created by the secession of the former SFRY, is the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Under that name, the country is recognised as a member of the United Nations. Who gives the government of the Republic of Serbia the right to, for example, the failure to respect international law, which does not respect the decision to join Macedonia under this official name, which gives the government of the Republic of Serbia the right to resent, say, the Government of the Republic of Greece? Greece does not recognise the term -- the Republic of Macedonia, because they believe that the concept of Macedonia and the concept of Macedonians is part of the Greek historical, political and cultural heritage. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia is constantly changing terminology. Now it's suddenly the Republic of Macedonia. It's not! The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. That's her official name and that's how it's supposed to be in the bill. Furthermore, it is not the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but only Bosnia and Herzegovina. Where does that say? Take the Dayton Peace Accords. Its component, as one of the annexes, is the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not the Constitution of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's very important, not just termologically, it's essential. It emphasises that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a rather specific state-class creation. It's not far from being a unitary state, it's much more than a Federation, it's not a classical confederate, but let's just say it's close to something called confederation in theory. That's why it's not the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it's not the state in the right sense of that word. You can't change the official names of the surrounding states now. The Macedonians are called – the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, for you is the Republic of Macedonia. These west of Drina are called Bosnia and Herzegovina, you say – the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not! Does this mean that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise the Dayton Peace Agreement and we guarantee the Dayton Peace Agreement? Does this mean that we do not recognise the Republic of Serbia as an integral part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as one of its entities? You can see that this bill is not as benign as it seems – that Mr. Minister thought that the essence of this law is how many employees there are in the state administration and what their salaries are. It's not! This could have lasting consequences for the state and national interests of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because those who have recognised your famous entity of the Western Balkans, Kosovo and Metohija, those who are choking the Republic of Serbia, ask the Republic of Serbia, if not indirectly, to show that Kosovo and Metohija do not treat as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and to write off the Republic of Serbia. That's why this bill is dangerous. That is why this bill needs to be carefully considered, whether it should have been put into congregation procedure at all in this form. And of course, the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic, should really consider whether to sign something like this. What are those who have recognised this famous entity of the Western Balkans, Kosovo and Metohija waiting for? They are waiting for one signal from any state body of the Republic of Serbia, from the National Assembly, from the Government, from the President of the Republic, one single signal from which one will be able to draw conclusions -- see, Serbs themselves no longer treat Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. It falls into the water the overall struggle of the Republic of Serbia in the international community among those countries that have not recognised the Western Balkans' independence. What will the Russians say tomorrow: "We believe that it is not in accordance with the international right to recognise Kosovo and Metohija, but we Russians cannot be greater Serbs than you Serbs. If you Serbs say that Kosovo and Metohija are not an integral part of the Republic of Serbia but an entity of the Western Balkans, well, what do you expect from us?- I'm sorry. "What will the Chinese tell us tomorrow? What will all those true friends of Serbia in the world tell us, when in such a shameful way, we ourselves determine an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if you noticed, Mrs Drazic, the Republic of Slovenia wanted to prevent the arrival of Croatia in the Piran Bay, a small pedal of territory on the northern Adriatic Sea, a strategic thousand times less important than Kosovo and Metohija, an historic thousand times less important than Kosovo and Metohija both for Slovenia and Croatia. But the serious state thus shows that it is a respectable factor in international relations, not giving it its own. Slovenia was ready to stop Croatia's EU accession due to the famous Piran Bay, due to 50 holiday homes. It does not give Croatia into the EU until the issue is resolved, and we Serbs treat Kosovo and Metohija this way – the Western Balkan entity. What happens tomorrow? A neighborhood of great Albania. How long? Where's the limit to that national devastation? You say in the Explanation of the bill something which has already become to this extent degutantly, I don't know if it is necessary to comment, but, I mean, since the transfer is probably followed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in order not to be unclear, like this: "In order to enter into force the Agreement and its implementation it is necessary to confirm it by five members. Since the Agreement has so far been confirmed by four members, it is proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure. '"Why an emergency procedure? That's the key words. "The lack of law by emergency procedure," imagine, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what is going to happen, "may produce harmful consequences for the work of authorities and organisations in the process of joining the European Union. ''I can conclude with my modesty the following – if the National Assembly, God forbid, does not adopt such a bill, the work of organs and organisations is paralysed, the end of the world becomes and there is no accession of Serbia to the EU. Oh, is that so? It's not. Is such a bill really what the need of the Republic of Serbia is? No, it's not even a random need in the EU accession process, but you government gentlemen don't know what to write in the reasons of the law, so you repeat the same floscules. Thank God Bill Gates invented that information operation copy-paisy and whenever a bill is found in the assembly procedure, he has to do an emergency procedure, otherwise - the end of the world, block the work of organs and organisations, can't we go to the EU?- I'm sorry. Is that so? Here, just to look at it from the EU's point of view -- it's not. You, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, behave like Catholic priests once did when the Bible was written in Latin. Well, ordinary believers, what the ignorant can't read and everything that that priest tells them is like that, it says in "The Bible" -- it's that I can't read, it's written in Latin, but he said it's the same thing I have to do. I have the impression that you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia think that, say, the 2009 European Commission Report is written in some god and asks what language, so we primitive, uneducated, anti-European Serbian radicals cannot read what it says in that report of the European Commission. Here's what it says, Mrs. Dražic, when it comes to government, it's page 9 and 10. The European Commission's 2009 report on the state of reform in the Republic of Serbia. He says this - the legislative framework that regulates the state administration is not yet complete. The Law on Administrative Procedure, the Law on Administrative Disputes, updated action plans for the implementation of the State Administration Reform Strategy and relevant sublegal acts have not yet been adopted. Only initial steps have been taken to introduce concrete measures in the fight against corruption in the state administration, and further action or judicial control are not adequate. It's a problem, not a regional school for the state administration, not Danilovgrad! However, he says -- the state government did not provide all the necessary resources to allow the 1992 offices to fully exercise their powers, and the activities that followed the Simeon recommendations are not sufficient. At the local level, the office was established only in 11 cities and municipalities. Furthermore, when it comes to the Commissioner for Public Information, European fluids are also important. An insufficient number of employees, especially now that the office has taken over additional tasks and the absence of a mechanism for implementing the Commissioner's decisions are the main obstacles to the work of this office. Then – other regulatory institutions, the State Audit Authority, the Committee on Conflict of Interest, the Anti-Corruption Council, the Competition Protection Commission, the Public Procurement Administration, the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers continue to face difficulties in implementing their mandates. They primarily refer to the lack of funds and, what is very important, by not responding officially to their decisions and recommendations. The European Commission's conclusion, the EU's conclusion - the pace of state administration reform is slow, an action plan for implementing the State Administration Reform Strategy has not yet been adopted. The award system according to the results of the work envisaged by the amended and updated Law on civil servants has not yet been implemented. Transparency in the state administration must be improved and a higher priority should be given to combating corruption and effective support for the work of independent bodies. This is the key priority of the European partnership, it says! This is the key priority of the European partnership, not the Regional School of State Administration. There will be no end of the world unless the regional school is formed, but if this is not done, greater coordination is needed in implementing the reform of the state administration, including monitoring and evaluation, and good governance practices should also be developed. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, this is what the EU thinks should be done. This is what the EU sees as a lack of the state administration of the Republic of Serbia. This, gentlemen, you should deal with, these questions to resolve. Let the Regional School of State Administration go. You have invented that there will be a blockade of state authorities and organisations and a break in the EU accession process unless the Regional School for State Administration is formed. That's simply not true, and it's coming out nicely from this report. Not every time you don't know what you're going to do, we have to do it for the EU. We don't have to. Why are you doing this? I'll tell you now, Mrs. Dražić. This is about money laundering, nothing else. How much does this regional school cost for the state administration in Danilovgrad? He says this: 'In the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia for the implementation of this law, funds amounting to 12 have been provided. A thousand. 1,000 dinars, not a small amount at all, and if necessary, funds will also be provided based on exchange rate differences. '"You see how the Serbian government thinks. Don't happen to miss that regional school for the state administration. If it's not enough 12 million, there'll be extra funding. It's an SRS signal to us that this is about something that isn't, quite legally, something that isn't, quite, pure. How do we suddenly -- it's a little 12 million, so if it's wrong, let's remember the course differences? Is it possible that this regional school for the state administration is so important for the Republic of Serbia? Is that possible? It's not possible. That's what anyone who is soundly looking at this thing, doesn't have to be a lawyer at all, doesn't have to be an economist at all, doesn't have to be an expert on European integration issues at all. He takes a man's paper and pen and says – at a time when people in Serbia are starving, when you have who knows how many millions of unemployed, when you have an increasing number of young and educated people running from this country, but not because of the SRS and not because of Slobodan Milosevic, but because of you, European gentlemen, who for ten years are supposed to be leading European politics, and people are eager to escape from your European idyll! That's the fundamental problem of this country. Now you will tell these people – you know, it will be a miracle unseen if you do not form a Regional School for State Administration. Now let's see what that school does. Believe me, I haven't found two sentences that refer to something that could be called the educational process at this school. We don't even know who's going to be teaching at that school. Are they professors of some European universities? Are these ministers from European countries? Are those the chiefs of staff? Who are these people? There's not a single word. There's not a single word about it and who's going to go to school at that regional school. Will the ministers be trained? Will state secretaries, ministerial assistants, directors of public agencies be trained? Will the clerks, in terms of driver, porter, coffee cooks, be trained? Who's going to train at that regional government school? There is not a single word about it, but about the money - 90% of the text. Here, now you'll hear. Firstly, I don't know what this means to you, Mrs Dražic, that EU member states or European economic space will significantly help Respa. I've heard there's an EU, but there's something called a European economic space, I haven't heard it. I would really like, because of my personal education and information, to explain to me what it is about this syntagma – a European economic space. Now to see what this RESPA does – it adopts the annual work programme and the RESPA budget, receives and acts on all reports, including reports from independent auditors. So it's the money. He's adopting the Respa financial regulations. It establishes the total volume of the annual basic budget of Respa. No education, no professors, no school. Just the money. Next, what does the Secretariat do? It mainly deals with financial management, Article 23. – basic budget, has eight positions, Article 24, two positions – financing and activities Respa, member of 25th financial reporting, five positions. More or less, only money; financial reports, financial operations, auditors. If I hadn't read the title of the bill, I'd have the impression it was a bank. All the money itself. All the auditors themselves. All the financial reports themselves. It's all budgets. About school, about education, about the quality of knowledge to be provided in this alleged educational institution, not a single word. (President: Time. ) I thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41311	I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a single search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, was submitted by the SRS Parliamentary Group. I give my word to Mr. Dragan Stevanović. Mr Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government's willingness to participate financially, and this project was confirmed in 2008. Now, one big dilemma remains whether the Serbian government knew in 2008 what the euro course, which was then planned or whether there would be a euro as a currency in 2010, given that you put in one sign, would provide additional funds if needed on the basis of the exchange rate differences? So if 12 million dinars are separated, it takes about 150 000 euros, then we need to understand that the euro was at a different value at that time. What is essential in the bill of this law is some obligation that was signed at some point earlier. Today we asked the question – what is the administration of the Serbian state, why is it so large, what are its responsibilities, do they overlap, who is responsible for this kind of administration? It's important that we go to school. There is now a fundamental problem in the state of Serbia. As the government comes, it changes administration. As the director comes – so does the systematization of jobs. That is the essence of the problem of this law. Tomorrow, by political agreement or political trade, a party will seek other positions within the ruling party, within the ruling coalition. They will seek a different ministry because they will feel the need for such manipulations through the ministry that no one is responding without the individual's budget or budget being good. Well, then there will be restructuring or, as you like to say, affirmation in European integration. New rules will be implemented, new agencies will be formed, new working bodies, working groups will be created to implement what we inherit from the EU protocol or obligations. We are not asking whether the headquarters will be in Montenegro or Serbia, but what is the role of this school. You have also had the opportunity to discuss in written reports who will participate in seeing that interest is large and huge for people in the administration to be educated, so that they can monitor the EU's fluids. The EU's fluid is based first on the budget. Our budget for countries in Europe is far more modest, poorer, poorer. Now we want to mate some things to be just a piece of that liquid. You have forgotten that you are not part of this liquid when it comes to EU experience, when it comes to dealing with crime and corruption or about re-election of judges. There are no EU liquids then. It only exists when it is necessary for this country, when it is necessary to arrest individuals from political parties and when it is necessary to find employment based on which one can be blackmailed as he will act in the coming period, in order to keep his clerk or the one who hired him in power. I am now asking members of the ruling majority, G17 Plus, Miroljub Labus has left the government in due time with an explanation that it is just preventing the implementation of this law because the UN tribunal's condition was to deliver Ratko Mladic and says – due to the failure to deliver Ratko Mladic, we have been denied the establishment of an office for development, for education of the administration, etc. He also listed the CEFTA agreement and other things. I ask you, gentlemen of the G17 Plus, since Ratko Mladic has not been delivered today, will you resign to all your posts today, as there is a condition for the UN tribunal today, for European integration, too, to deliver Ratko Mladic. If you remember in 2008, it wasn't that far, it was only two years ago, you were in one of the government's other packages. Either way, you haven't bypassed any government since 2000, but you've always had an excuse why you knock down the government and what it takes as a basic clause to get out of it, so because failure to meet the requirements of the UN tribunal has made it impossible and prevented the entry into the EU, more specifically, the hitch of European integration, because this law could not then come into force, then you said that the DSS, the party of Vojislav Kostunica, was guilty. We're in the same situation today, in the same position. You didn't even sign up for the discussion. You didn't even deign to repeat what Miroljub Labus said. Have you distanced yourself from his statements or are you standing on the same path as before? What remains as a misunderstanding is the state administration system in Serbia. We know he's big-time. But what they don't know about the state administration itself is the answer to the question – why is it so big? Serbia's government, unfortunately, does not have a systematic single record of all the bodies it has established. When they want to remember what they have under their wing, in the government, as they told us, they must, in addition, go on foot. That, on the basis of the law on the availability of information of public importance, the Agency, the Working Body and what part of the Government is for what it is for. Then that's where some vague accounting rules come in. The figures speak – 24 ministries, 29 administrative districts, 28 administration bodies as part of ministries, 22 special organisations. However, there is no end to uncertainty when it comes to the censusing of tentacles in Serbia and the bodies used by our tax payments. Therefore, the list of agencies, institutions, other organisations on the website of the Commissioner for Public Information has over 100 regular numbers. Now imagine how big this administration is, and even those 150 thousand euros, as much as it takes to get out of the budget, is a little bit for this kind of administration. Next, independent bodies. The trustee's catalogue provides an indicative number to the authorities because they are within the reach of the public authorities, as they do not fall within the authorities of the state administration, however, except that it is not updated, the bodies in this list are not always classified according to legal status. The government's jobs are particularly media-interesting when they're trusted in agencies. However, the agencies are impossible to count with precision. They are shut down, formed and implemented almost inconspicuously. Some exist only in regulations, some are not even public agencies. Such are the Agency for Energy Efficiency, the BIA, the Republic of the Peace of Work Dispute Resolution Agency, the Foreign Investment and Promotion Agency, the SIEPA Export Agency and the Mining Agency, which are special organisations. Is this school going to educate these agencies, too, the question arises? The Agency for Environmental Protection is the Authority of the Administration of the Ministry. Then the question arises – what is RRA or Anti-Corruption Agency? No one in this room seems to know the answer. Since you can't give us an answer, the minister isn't here, I'm sorry we've been denied that, too. The easiest thing to say is an independent regulatory body or an agency. It is this concept that brings additional confusion into the measurement of the state apparatus itself, because that name is not a legal category, but is something that can be called that. And what is the role and function we've never received a report and we've never had a criminal policy for some agency that's done something wrong. There is no general legal framework in which all those bodies that regulate Serbia or, for example, put all of them in the same mold so that the criminal framework applies to all of them. Vladana Jovcic, assistant minister of state administration and local self-government, said she finds it worrying, however, does not see how this would be achieved without disrupting flexibility and requirements on the path of European integration. Here, this lady openly says that the pathways of European integration are political trade when the government is joined, that which ministry and which minister from which political parties to lead and if the formation of a government or majority of parliament is not agreed, we will have a problem – the requirements of hitchhiking the way for European integration. It is the classic preamble – what is good, we will call on Europe, and what Europe says is bad, we will not pay any attention to it and we will ignore it. We've already mentioned that more than once. I have to mention this is a quote, so it wouldn't be if I told the truth. "After meeting with Rehn, Labus in Brussels says someone in Serbia should take responsibility for this when it comes to government credibility, that this thing in Serbia will have political repercussions and that he will discuss it with his political partners when he returns to the country. In early April, Labus demanded that security shifts be carried out if the job was not done. The government site that afternoon placed news that EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn, Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus and representatives of Croatia, Albania, Macedonia, BiH signed a Protocol on Co-operation in the establishment of a Regional School for State Administration. That the Regional School aims to create a mechanism to improve training and improve state administration and that this is one of the evidence of concrete progress in meeting the Thessaloniki Agenda on Regional Co-operation and European Perspectives in the Western Balkans. That this was the third step in that direction over the past month and that negotiations on the free trade zone under the CEFTA Agreement began in early April in Bucharest, as well as that preliminary visa relief talks for Serbia, Montenegro and Macedonia began. "Then comes the preamble, says – "It is said that Olli Rehn, as a former professor of political science, will teach at a school on a charity basis, that the European Commission will help function with it with a million euros over the next two years. '"This is a statement from the site, an official statement. On the same site in the same day, Miroljub Labus is said to resign because the UN tribunal has not been delivered to Ratko Mladic within a certain time period, which he has promised Kostunica. So that's why he resigns, because of these three things. This third thing is today in the congregation procedure, i.e. First. And where's G17 plus today? Back in the government. So, what's he saying then? I have no intention of stamping any political party now, but I intend to tell you -- that you care about this agency, that you care about the staffing or the schooling of the administration, you would have done it without this agency much, much earlier. But since you're changing the staff and the administration from what the political agreement is, how who comes to power, how who takes over which ministry, education and you don't need, you need obedients. And those from the EU sitting, foreigners who translate these laws and bring them into our ministries, who create what will be on the Parliament's agenda, e, they are this agency. If we need to separate the money for them, then say it openly. If we have to pay them out of our budget, say it openly. In every ministry in Serbia, there is a foreign person tasked with monitoring the law he has passed and released in the procedure, only translated into Serbian, and we even have a problem with translation. That is the essence of your European integration. Who's going to go to school? Minister? The secretary? Deputy Minister? If it's a political function, then you admit that the administration is incompetent. If you want to educate her, then you admit that she's a trompe, that she's incapable, that she's bulky, that she's corrupt. You admit it openly. You think you can handle it with 150,000 euros? Well, he can't. During the night to honor a clause signed in 2008, ministers and secretaries will travel to Montenegro to educate, and the lecture will hold, no less, no more, than Olli Rehn. This is a requirement for European integration. It's a request from this bill. It is a commitment under which we are wasting time today, instead of solving the problems facing the state of Serbia, instead of realizing that the euro will disappear very quickly, that the EU is falling apart, we are seeking some goals in which the signator is also in front of Kosovo and Metohija, UNMIK, in accordance with Resolution 1244. Now, that's also the attitude towards the state, e, that's the attitude towards the administration and towards itself as a government, not the attitude towards the citizens. Take care, gentlemen of the government, of the problems! I want you to work out your privatisation. Solve robbery, crime and corruption. Don't solve how you spend your money. This government has proven itself incapable of managing projects. No matter how many projects and loans there have been, none have been completed, none has been achieved, not within a deadline, not past the deadline. This government is not capable of spending money except for individuals in the government, but what needs to be seen doesn't exist until the election campaign. That's the problem with this government. The problem is European integration when it needs to be implemented through money. When they need to be implemented through a better life, European integration does not exist. Then we will follow the agreement and EU countries that have a budget ten times bigger than we, which have industry, the industrial price of electricity, industrial gas, industrial fuel. They all have better, cheaper and better quality than us, and we're going to mate with them, because individuals are filling their pockets. Please, don't distract us from these things that really don't matter to the citizens of Serbia anymore, but to the political parties that can be in the government today, and not tomorrow. Give us concrete laws to deal with, regarding improving the standards and lives of people, to discuss seriously in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41313	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41314	Serbian and Serbian Serb brothers, this bill is a cowardly egg that the Serbian government is sending to parliament, so that in a very perfiduous way, it leads me to swear that although the government in Serbia will never recognise the independence of KIM, it does. This isn't the first time we've done anything like this. Believe me, if there were no such thing in this law, if it wasn't seen in the draft of this law, I would talk about this law in a very funny, even diabolical way, but since this is a very important fact for the state of Serbia, I can't make fun of the legislator of this law, but I call on the president of the state, who, of course, should sign this law after you are certain to adopt it, no matter what we say, and I remind him that he can be and be resolved for it, because he has to behave in accordance with the Constitution. And since the constitution doesn't say that KIM is any entity within Serbia, then it should well consider what it will do. So the law isn't as harmless as the MPs think, well, I see, and they don't take part in the debate. Some representatives of the parliamentary groups expressed their position, praised the progress of the state administration, reforming the state administration by agreeing with what the EU requires of us, but did not even read the law. No one will answer, not even anyone except the representatives of the SRS has even mentioned this KIM problem. It should have been since 2006, as soon as I saw this signed by Labus, I had to go back to this text twice, and then read and see what it was about. Be careful if the Protocol is signed by representatives of the Republic of Albania, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, BiH, the SCG state union, in 2006, in general and in particular for each of the republics of the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, as well as representatives of UNMIK on behalf of the Autonomous province of KIM, they tore us apart then. We cannot understand that we need to become a serious state and that we are obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution and protect the territorial integrity of our country. We sign a lot of things, whatever they set us up. To join the EU, here is the law, the respected citizens of Serbia, which is why we are five days behind on joining the EU. I'm really sorry we didn't have an emergency session earlier, so you don't have any excuse why we're late. What a black EU! When you don't know what to write, you write something like this. This urgent? This country burns everything, and what do we do? Are we going to deal with the crucial things that we're going to live on, how to survive, how to save the state or talk about some school, some kindergarten that's supposed to be formed in Danilovgrad and that's supposed to cost us as much as it's going to cost us, and we don't know what it's going to do, or who's going to do it. But there will be some representatives of our government, some party officials, who will have, of course, immunity in accordance with the UN Convention, as consular and diplomatic representations have, so it will cost us extra, until they come here or some of ours go there, then it means a lot of expenses. It's not exactly when some ambassador walks around somewhere that it costs nothing. We're being very unserious about this stuff. I think the government is underestimating us. Maybe it's our own fault. They send us things here, they get away with it. If we were to get a little serious, you'd see how the government would respect a little of us, the MPs, so the people would respect us more, so we'd be a little bit guilty if they didn't respect us. Because they say they're just sitting there, if they're sitting at all, and they don't care about us at all. And when you go out into the street you cannot pass from the people, for two hours I go to the market, for they drag me by the sleeve to ask me – and what about the autumn, and how will I do with the children, and how will I do with the wages, and how will I do with the pension?- I'm sorry. What shall I say to them? Go before the Government and ask them, why do you ask me? I don't know what Serbian radicals need to do to make a difference in this country or how to open your eyes to start taking care of your own country, not to have someone else write you laws, setting any conditions. Believe me, this is not the EU's interest at all. They don't care about this school of yours in Danilovgrad, please. What are they going to learn there? There's no minister here to ask him, we don't even know who our civil servants are. Those in local self-government aren't government officials. We can only thank you for promoting the state administration of Bill Gates. Thank God, there are computers - we can network and we can get to the document more easily. How do they work, under what conditions and for what money, these civil servants? They're always extras, mostly local self-government. Not gentlemen, but the ones in the ministries, the ones in the party books, the ones in the agencies, the different institutions you've created, the directorates, I don't know what they're called. That's how many people are employed, I don't mind, but the state can't be the biggest employer. There's no way a country like that could survive. If you don't do something so that the state budget can be charged and more employed outside the state administration, there's no state. There's no state without money. If we are economically enslaved, we are also politically enslaved. People feel, though they can't see that we're enslaved. He can't see because we don't have a naked occupation, there's no tanks on the streets, but there are foreigners in foreign ministries and there are strangers in the Assembly. Nothing can go through without them. It's an occupation. They dictate everything we have to do, and all we do is bow down. It's not what other countries do in the environment, as you say, in the Western Balkans. They don't work, they think a little bit about themselves, they have some values, some of their habits, they have already tried out methods. The SRS can't vote for this law, first, because it's anti-constitutional; secondly, what's absolutely unnecessary -- there's one member missing, so let's sign it, not the other, so this can live. You really underestimate the intelligence of both this people and us, their representatives here in parliament. I could talk a lot longer about this and analyze all these points of the bill, one by one, but I find it illusory, and I think this is the most important thing, and I call on the MPs, if you haven't read the law, please read it. Look what's right behind the hill. This is just a test balloon for the entry of the self-called Republic of Kosovo and Metohija into some various international institutions, and they have already entered some institutions at the door, and the authorities in Belgrade have kept their eye on it and are swearing again, like, we don't give Kosovo. No one will ever ask anyone to sign it in Belgrade, they know we can't do it, not by any chance, but in this way, a little bit or less, they will become an equal member of all these international institutions and where Serbia sits, and they will sit, if we continue to do this. So take responsibility, gentlemen. All the stenograms stay here, all that history remembers, all this is going to be someone's evaluation and someone's going to give a grade and our work, not just in the election, more or less. The consequences will suffer generations and generations that come behind us. Every law is important, and the one that seems benign, believe me, is perhaps more important than Serbia's budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41315	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, welcome. It is fortunate that you have taken care of the state administration, arranged it and brought it to the level where Serbia needs only one more school like this and that it can be proud of its state administration. Of course, I said this in irony. It is truly devastating what Mrs Pop Lazic said before me, that, after an emergency procedure in an emergency session, we are discussing a completely insignificant and unnecessary bill for Serbia to confirm some agreement on the establishment of a regional school for the state administration. To make the irony bigger, this is a step on the way to the EU. There is no law in which you have not done everything to appeal to the EU, which it seems and apparently in Europe only Serbia is seriously talking. Even those who created it in the 1950s don't recognize it or see any more perspective. The example of Greece is the latest example that has shown that the EU's backbones have shown that particular interests are far more important and important to them than those supranational, or international, and that the euro zone and the EU are increasingly less likely to survive. Then it strengthens the irony of a project like this that we should get, after implementing this law, an effective state administration, or, as the government gentlemen say, to raise the level of administrative capacity of this state. And when you look at what the government in its country has done to raise administrative capacity, then you can really laugh at all of this. There is no exam that the government passed, with regard to raising the level of administrative capacity, from local to state level, which could be praised. Since your constitution and the way this government has been established, there has been a clear manifestation of the attitude towards the state administration. A government is formed that doesn't comply with the law. When something starts to go wrong, in reverse, what you can expect through time and at the end of that government's term, rather than an accident, and everything goes wrong. Mr. Minister, on behalf of raising the administrative capacity in this country, before the end of last year, you passed two laws. You adopted them as a majority and made a commitment to fire several thousand people from the state administration, from local to state level. We ask you today - have you implemented the law that you have adopted and which you have defended before this Parliament as a mechanism for raising administrative capacity? Of course you didn't, you didn't implement it, and it's not enough for you to have the state cramping in your debt, to be a reminder, but to come to the IMF and pound your nuts, to fire the workers and enforce the law, but not because you need to raise the administrative capacity, but rather because you need to assign the country 380m euros, to withdraw the new tranche of the IMF loan, which you will defend the dinar, which is every day at the new historical minimum. Now we need to believe this school will raise administrative capacity in our country. What have you done, gentlemen of the government, with a comprehensive regulation reform? That's what we said a hundred times here. You have adopted recommendations in the Government, and now all of you ministers are doing everything in a partial way so that these decisions are not applied or implemented, so from 200 or 300 regulations you have changed or managed to fix only 50 and change the change. Citizens, states, all those who are users of state administration services, from local to state level. Furthermore, the examples of practice are indeed many. Perhaps in the most authentic way, the image of the state administration reflects the Property Directorate. In that directorate they were soon, I know for certain, because, unfortunately or unfortunately, as a local official, I was directed to work with this institution, for years there are cases that are not solved, but are not open. The Directorate doesn't know they have them. We're building a school to train people to have an effective government. It's really untasteful. After all that accident we have, I repeat the hundredth time, from local to state level, that we don't talk about what your government is like, which is at local level through trusted jobs, that we're not talking about the administrative capacity of local self-government, because this isn't specifically about local self-government, that we're not talking about what's going on here. Mr. Minister, there is no organ in this country that you can address to solve the problem. From your ministry, we are directed to the Ministry of Trade, from the Ministry of Trade in the Ministry of Finance, all tell us to contact the Constitutional Court. You're complaining to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court also reports to the authorities. You just don't have anyone to talk to. Then we call again to your ministry, to the Department of Commerce, to the Ministry of Finance. No one has the answer to tell you who to talk to, that there's a legal remedy in the state to solve a banana problem that the citizens of one, two, three or five municipalities suffer, it doesn't matter. You're selling us fog on the Respa, the Regional School of Effective State Administration. You bring this into the context of European integration in terms of regional co-operation, which raises some questions, which I am going to ask you at the end of my discussion, which are contained in this document. You want us to take you seriously, and you want to send a serious and responsible message to the citizens who couture with the euro, and your Prime Minister sends messages that there's no need to couture with it, why they're thinking about it. The president now remembered after ten years that there are a bunch of criminals in the state who don't know how much money they have, etc., that I don't quote examples from our cruel daily life. And now we're discussing Respa, the school. It's your trip to the EU. On the other hand, based on the administrative capacity of this country, it would be nice if you could tell us where you are being placed by relevant international institutions based on reports and analysis of how things are happening and what opportunities are in Serbia, in this context and in this sense. How important this is to say and the fact that for seven years they are not able all together to participate in this, to write documents on which the work and functioning of these institutions will be based. They started in 2003. By 2010, they can't just write papers and sign them. It's one of the indicators of how important this is for everyone around here, including us, or should be important. To make the irony bigger, not only in seven years, it hasn't come to life yet, but we are the last state to sign this agreement to make this work. If it's so important to you, so you put him in an emergency procedure in an emergency session, why weren't you the first signator of this agreement to force the states out of the environment to sign them, because this is significant and important? No, you're boasting about the fact that you're the last to sign this, so because of our signature, or yours on behalf of the government, who's authorized to sign it, this school is going to come to life. Serbian citizens will finance, I don't even know what this is, irrelevantly, the school, that the environment educates the state administration to work effectively, to teach us to understand the needs of this country and this society. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is – why did the UNMIK representatives not sign this agreement? It can be interpreted two ways. I received a document from my colleague Jovanovic, which is an official document, therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Kosovo Report, in which it insists on Resolution 1244, which is also good with the UN. Why didn't anyone from the UN sign this document? Whether it is because of the fact that it is understood that this is signed by Serbia on behalf of KIM, and I would be glad to have such an understanding in the environment, but I will remind you that the states that signed this both Montenegro and Macedonia recognise KIM as an independent terrorist quasistate. You put your signatures on them, you make a school. Or, perhaps, in this we should recognize the roots of a different approach to Kosovo, as an entity, as is said here in the explanation of this document, or, perhaps, as a new institute, in the context of regional co-operation in the Western Balkans? Are you also silent in this way that Kosovo, using the mechanisms of this agreement, will one day join this school? That's a question for you, Mr. Minister. I have another question I want to ask you, since I assume you will send ratification of this agreement to Montenegro in 2010, in accordance with this agreement, you are required to provide 150,000 euros. In 2009, you were obliged to provide 120,000 euros and exchange rates and that was 12 million. You said that in the 2010 budget you had predicted 12 million, and under the Agreement you are obliged to predict 150,000, or at least 15 million, as well as exchange rate differences. Given that we have a dinar by who knows what time in the last week at the historic minimum, who knows how much real, essential or fact-finding money this is going to take. Tell us, how much money will be transferred to this school's budget, where will what's over 12 million be covered, how did you predict the budget, and finally tell us if this really will have any effect on the government? We do not dispute that education, training and training are necessary, but we are also convinced in the SRS that the state has the resources, except that it uses them poorly, based on which level of administrative capacity could be raised. It's nice to boast with five, 10 or 20 local self-governments that function in such a way as to issue electronic documents, etc., the last few days of all this talk. On the other hand, you have a hundred and a change of local self-government that is not capacitative to write one project that would apply to anyone, anyone, to make some money, not to mention the real problems that are happening to us, from the Shop, so I don't know how long. The SRS believes that you can create administrative capacities in this country only when you impose or provide, and you are unable to do so, healthy political relations in Serbia, from local, to state-level, until in the conduct, behaviour and rule in the state administration you are not able to lead to partial, party and party interests rather than public and state-owned interests, until then this and any such or similar law, protocol, memoranda or initiative will be devoid of purpose, and in the process before you vote or ratify it in this assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41317	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41318	How much time is there?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41319	You have 27 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41320	Just 27? I, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, will try to honor you for six minutes, so that you can go to the European Union as soon as possible. If it had been this law six days ago, we would have been in the EU and not sweat like this. Today's theme is – the school is opening up for the 'little ducks', but in Danilovgrad. That'll cost the state 150 thousand euros. Who's it gonna cost? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia! What's in this law? It's all wrong! This is the historical maximum to make so many mistakes in so little space. First of all, there is no known name for former republics that are supposed to be independent states. Then there is no known name of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Then, onward, you know it yourself. We in this assembly are a little stronger for one experience, so we know – everything that defends and suggests Bosko Ristić is a disaster. I'll start with the Command, and then I'll start with the Command. She is not in a better position than Milan Markovic. He didn't have any laws. They're all troublesome and cause chaos. Now, when you have those experts, then you have to open your eyes and where they don't belong, take a good look at what's written and what's behind it. So, for ten years, I've been trying hard to say every day from this pay phone – Serbia will never be a member of the European Union, ever! Serbia will never be a member of the NATO Pact, ever! I remind you that I told you this, so I made you laugh a little bit – you owe as much as Greece, you're like a Bulgarian assembly, etc. Two years ago, I told you in advance what comes next in the EU. Now you've got a slap, but, come on, you've got a slap, but they've got a slap, those who voted "For European Serbia", "For European Negotin", "For European Arangelovac", "For European Bor", they've all got a slap. Why? There's nothing wrong with that illusion. It's a mirage. It's one coin that's being inserted, so citizens who want to be nice to them recognize it in those two words. And they recognized it well that instead of 200,000 people to get a job, 200,000 people lost their jobs. It is said - in the additional elections just vote for the parties in power, we will transfer the money to you in the additional elections. The Devil – in budgets reduced transfers to local self-government units. It is said: vote for us and we will hire you women, children, etc. The devil - the law is passed to reduce the number of employees in the state administration and local self-government. A lie to a lie. The question of who and how long does he accept that lie and agree to that lie? I don't argue that sounds good. Everything sounds nice when a man can get something without sweating. But Serbia is not in that position. All of the indicators since 2000 are negative, over-indebted, sold everything that's worth it and don't make it any further. Where's the perspective? At a school for little ducks. It opens in Danilovgrad. There. The negotiations started a long time ago. Can we even talk about some school for our government abroad? What are the authorities of the state administration? The Ministry. Who's doing government work? The ministries, administrative organizations and some analogy – the administration of local self-government, works on principles. What can we learn in that school and apply it as a practice from abroad when our regulations differ? Someone thinks that our regulations are compatible with European Union regulations. Guys, please, forget it. It's an even bigger mistake. The state administration's affairs best show the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a country. Who does this contract end with? With some countries caused by the disintegration of the former SFRY, the break-up of the former SFRY. De jure, these republics are truly states, internationally recognised. In fact, they can't argue that they're not states. But essentially, they're not states. They are addicts, and they are heavy addicts of the European Union and NATO pact. How can we sign something with someone who has recognised an independent Kosovo? Here, that's one big reason Boris Tadic should be handing you slaps in the government. He struggles for Kosovo and Metohija to be part of the Republic of Serbia, and you are pushing the stakes on him. He's been around the world six times in the past year. There was no state and president who was not convinced that Kosovo and Metohija could not be independent, and he has "goats in trouble" in the government. And they're setting him up. Well, it's a designed system, we read you a long time ago. Well, my fellow citizens. For seven or eight years, the future state administration of independent Kosovo has been educated in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. They view it as a cost to train them that, when they are left alone, it could definitely work for the doing of local self-government, because their way of organising a society in Kosovo now fits – if one family has taken urbanism, the next families cannot get permission. And they want to throw it out, teach them that the law is above all else. They've been preparing them for a long time. They've been schooling them for a long time. The NATO Pact also helps them build a security force of 2.5 thousand troops. Yeah, yeah, they're the KLA terrorists. Who's making them? The one who treated them like terrorists in 1998. We need regional co-operation to prove our commitment. What determination? No one argues that you want to join the EU, but move a little bit, they won't let us, people. They want us under certain conditions and will always determine some new conditions. How long will they be able to determine these conditions? Until Serbia falls for Belgrade's pasture. You agree that every request they make will be completed. There are only two and a half people in Serbia who prefer the EU than those in Brussels, Berlin or Paris. The first is Bozidar Djelic. Come on, come on! And when the European Union breaks, it will continue to talk about the EU in the best possible way. The second is Mladjan Dinkic. I'm not angry, it's his platform. He's got to garden that story, make it so. The third, which is half, is this Mrs Delevic who said - we should go to the EU, but under our terms. She turned out to be a lot more intelligent than these two life ministers. Every normal person is aware of this situation in which Serbia is located. This project of yours has failed. You managed to provide the majority that will co-operate with Kosovo institutions of independent Kosovo through additional elections in Kosovo and Metohija, in so-called Serb municipalities. Well, do you see what those neutral representatives of the international community are telling us? To remind you, I asked a million times – Bogdanovic, whose minister, Tadic or Thaci? It's the first Serb to enter some transitional institutions. Now it's loaded in there, you've got as many there as you want. You are fighting for sovereignty, the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, we have convinced some who are behind this requirement, and what kind of message are we sending them with this kind of fruit in opening schools for "flies of small"? What's that "pachadia" gonna learn in the end? Again, what – him, him, him! What are our government's problems? The fact that it's politicized at all levels is maximum politicized. Has anyone developed the independence, independence of those people who need to apply the rules? No, they've got to be cups. How is the state administration built and made it more effective? It's a business organization. As for law enforcement, even with respect to court practice. That doesn't interest the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia wants to register another quasi-national agreement to prove that it is similar to the EU, that it is calm, will not wave anything, the existing state is not changing, the current situation is a pity for us and every day an increasing and greater damage. Now, that's the state that won't wave this power. He's supposed to get some commendation. What kind of praise? Woe to him whom Javier Solana praised. He said Serbia is bombed and killed innocent people, even in a territory that has nothing to do with Kosovo and Metohija. The first bomb was dropped at the Airport in Podgorica, the second one fell in Danilovgrad. There, right in Danilovgrad. How long are we going to do that? "For Europe's Serbia", "For the European Bor", "For the European Prcilovica". "Europe has no alternative! '") a Europe that takes Kosovo and Metohija, which announces that it will continue, NATO that supports all of this logistics, but with us – Europe, Europe, Europe! There's no other way. It has to be Europe. There's no alternative. Let me remind you. Once a factor of peace in the Balkans became a 'Balkan butcher'. Keep an eye on them, those Western criteria of overnight change. You got in the car, you gave up the bank, a million don't get you out of the car. Take care. Why are you planting Tadic with such bill? Judging by what the public, the man, the story, should disband this government. You don't listen to the President of the Republic. You're not listening to the president of the DS. How can you be in the same position after this law? Now I have to defend Tadic from you. Why would I defend him from you? I have a lot of criticism about his behavior, so you can imagine what you're like. The President's Directive is yours. What kind of party are you? Do you respect your president? I'm counting, he's in the country now, he's done this abroad, he should pay attention to what's going on here. Kosovo and Metohija are now an entity. You've re-entered 1244. Can you see that nothing means anything to anyone in 1244? We kept telling you from this place again and again -- no agreement should be signed with that state that has recognised an independent Kosovo. There's 68 of them right now. And what messages do you get? What does this American ambassador say here? He says, well, it's almost a thing, what are you talking about? That means about – Tadic, what are you, Kosovo, the done deal, it's over, it's just a question of when you're going to accept, to bow your head. They are not interested in our Constitution at all, but we are interested in our Constitution. How could you suggest something contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia?- I'm sorry. Who authorized you to violate the Constitution? We don't have the right to vote for this. If it were the normal presidency of the National Assembly, it would return this paper to the Prime Minister and say, excuse me, please, dress this up, termologically, grammatically, in any other way. They won't cooperate with you. Now you want to cheat, you can't fool us, you've come to the field. Which field? "Who else digs a pit I'm getting into it! 'Remember, there was an ibis. We must stick to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He's a dam that forbids anything like this to be signed. You can also say we should address the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Wow... Let me tell you something, little one. The President of the Constitutional Court doctored on the subject of "The Greater Republic and the Region", which translates into how to break up the state. A professor in Banja Luka, a visiting professor at Union University, in a committee for a judicial state exam, a member of arbitration, she, a poor woman, all in conflict of interest. When the time came to move the apartment, she changed the apartment and she got severance as well as the Sutanovac. How can these decisions be valid? You'll direct us, report to the Constitutional Court if you're not satisfied. We know who's sitting there. And there's that intern judge we picked three months ago. It's nothing to worry about. This law must be withdrawn from the procedure. There is absolutely no reason why this law should be passed confirming this contract, none. A representative of the government said something, missed the subject. He didn't state any valid reason, he didn't talk about this at all. He didn't talk about this at all. What came out of the regulations that came out of that ministry? Say, communal cops? What's come to life? Nothing. Why? Because you make laws as protagonists of chaos. Undetermined, inaccurate and inapplicable. And you don't apply it. And until Judgment Day, "d." And what day is it? To join the EU. We will never be members of the EU. It's not up to us, it's up to them. We'll never be members of the NATO Pact. It's not up to us or the Shutanite, it's up to them. There are much deeper reasons for what I've told you. That's what they know very well there. You probably know. But why are you cheating on citizens? Why are you sending these stories without any basis? Spread some ideas, put the nation to sleep in anticipation of a better tomorrow. It's not gonna happen. You're not promoting a cult of work at all, you're not promoting a cult of patriotism at all, but we're serving a cult. Why? Well, he's developed. Where are we going? What's going to happen to this area here? How do you organize life in this area? New school for little ducks in Danilovgrad. You know what's going to be an effect? Ga, ga, ga, no more! Nothing more! Of course, I keep my promises, here I am, giving twice the time that Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, along with Mrs. Comic, hurry up as soon as possible to Europe, if you won't, report back, I will urge you two to receive.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41321	I thank you, Mr. Krassic, and you will be with us in Europe, we will never leave you. Since there are no more word reports on the lists of MPs, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if anyone who has not used the right of Article 93 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a unique search. I'd like to inform you that at 15.00 hours, we'll continue our work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41322	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work in the afternoon session. To begin with, notice of the invited to the session. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for the session to attend the session of Radvoje Mitrovica, State Secretary Slobodan Jauković, Assistant Minister and Lela Rudic, Assistant Minister of Education. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION LAW (Principles) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Education, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of MPs, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group of SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; Parliamentary group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliamentary group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Nikola Krpic's PUPS Parliament Group; MP Nenad Prokic – MEP Group LDP; MP Miletic-Mihajlović – MEP Group SPS-JS; MP Zoran Shami – Parliamentary Group DSS; National MP Mileta Poscurica – Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia; MP Jovan Nesovic – MEP G17 plus; MP Goran Mihajlović – Parliamentary Group SRS. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does Proposer representative Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, want a word? (Yes) Please, just sign in. The word is Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41323	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Honored counterpart Novakovic, the Ministry of Education has passed a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education before you. The main intention of the promoter, in this case, of the Ministry of Education, is to improve the system of higher education in the Republic of Serbia by proposing changes and to address issues that have been shown in practice to be open in the context of the implementation of the existing Higher Education Act. To remind you, the Higher Education Act was adopted in 2005 and we have already made one change in October 2008, only a few members. Time has shown over the past two years that there is a need for the Law on Higher Education to be amended in other parts, because in practice it has proved that some solutions simply do not suffer the practice that exists, that some of the conditions set out at this point are high for us and that there are certain legal inaccuracies and gaps that we have tried to resolve by amending and supplementing this law. I must remind you that, in our opinion, the 2005 Law has shown a number of qualities, advantages that were confirmed last year in Luven at the Conference on Higher Education by Ministers, fellows from the Higher Education Area, and that then, as a country, we received a score of 3.8 in relation to the asked questionnaires and the requirements met, recognising that in three-and-a-half years of implementation of the Higher Education Act, our higher education received a very good grade. We are not satisfied with this, and it is shown in practice that there is a need for certain solutions to be completed. We believe that these proposed solutions absolutely meet the requirements to increase the number of students in higher education, to enable them to be more transparent, mobility and to address some issues that have been raised in the accreditation process. If I wanted to answer the question of what we were changing, the answer would be the following, I must say at the beginning – we, at the Ministry of Education, respected fellow MPs, formed one working group a few months ago, composed of representatives of state and private universities, representatives of higher schools of vocational studies, students, were invited by representatives of other institutions who had an impact and importance on higher education, held several meetings with several hours of work, and the fact is that a working group on higher education did a very good job. However, it is also a fact that the working group, compared to the tasks we have set up, has covered a far greater number of issues, so that you, respected fellow MPs, have been able to hear more questions in the public over the past two months in the area of higher education that are part of higher education, but are not part of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Because much has been said about the responsibilities of the National Council for Higher Education, the relations of the National Council and the Ministry of Education, the relations of the National Council and the Commission for Accreditation, as its working body, the conditions for the establishment of higher education institutions, the right of higher education institutions to educate individual staff and a number of other issues that have been raised in public. It is interesting that some of the very important issues in this law are not at all discussed in public, which is for us a good indicator that there is absolute agreement on these issues and that they should be the content of this law. Namely, in conversations with the rectors of all universities at KONUS, where I was pleased to attend, I informed the rectors, and today I am doing so here in front of you and the entire academic community, our position was, at the Ministry of Education, to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education, to cover only those issues which we will address by this bill without opening another. And instead of improving the system, to open up the questions that this system will raise, because we think that if we have proposed certain solutions that we have provided for another two years to make it logical to do a few more things that are very important for higher education within the next two years. To adopt a strategy of education of the Republic of Serbia, which will be part of a strategy in the field of higher education, we bring a national qualification framework, we evaluate the application of the provisions of this law in practice, we see why the passing of certain universities is unsatisfactory, we give a fundamental answer to the question – whether academic programs, whether they are textbooks that have not been changed, whether they are continuing, how they are taught by professors, or, possibly, students have not yet sufficiently understood their role in the process of higher education, their decisive role. So, they didn't understand that they should be present both in lectures and during the exercises, to participate in the production of seminar papers, in one word, to participate until the end of the high-school teaching process, that this work is worth it and that the final act, the passing of exams, is something that I should be, to say, the conclusion of a successful job between students and teachers during the school year. So what's important is, what I want to point out at the beginning, we didn't touch the structure of the program. The structure of the program remains as it was, only we didn't want this system with this structure of the program to be disrupted now rather than that it has its own cycle of completion, so let's also evaluate that assessment that we get to make a further move. In two years, we may change the system of funding in higher education, and that's one of the issues that's open, to say, in this debate, directly and indirectly, but these are all topics that need to be discussed. What we, respected colleagues, have anticipated changes and additions to this law are the following changes: we have provided for the possibility of increasing the number of members of the National Educational Council from 16 to 21, we have foreseen 12 instead of 10 on CONUSA's proposal, the number of members the government proposes from four to seven, and compared to the number of members, which is 21, the proposal for the state to propose seven candidates, i.e. seven candidates, i.e. to be one third of the estimated number is something that, in our opinion, in no way in any way raises the question of the independence of higher education institutions, and in particular the National Council, that it makes the appropriate decisions on its own, competent and quality. We have also provided for the possibility that representatives of students, conferences of student parliaments, which they choose, participate in the work of the National Council for Higher Education, and in this process consider issues that are important to them and that is something that we think is very good. We predicted, as far as students are concerned, a few things, which I consider essential and interesting as one of the questions that has not been considered at all in the public, which we consider extremely important especially to the fact that all students are now preparing for exams and for the start of the new school year 1 and 10 October of this school year, respectively. What is important for students that all students of the university in Serbia should know – the bill provides for the retention of 48 points as conditions for enrolment next year, both for this year and for the next school year. Dear fellow Members of the People, it is the main part of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Higher Education. We predicted that students could enter the next school year with 48 points both this year and next, because the current law provided a 54-point condition and the next 60 points. We left that 60-point condition for the third year. What is more important for students – the number of test deadlines to six has been increased, but the school year ends by October 10th of the current year, i.e. all exams must be completed by then and the condition is obtained or the conditions for enrollment of the year are not met. Also, what is important, students who will be financed by the state, the quota set by the state plus 20% determined by teaching higher education institutions, these 120% will be sorted by quality, by number of points and by average. It will not apply as the principle so far – once a budget student will always be a budget student, but they will all be valued in quality. In this way, we will encourage the competition and interest of students that with a higher number of points, i.e. with a better average of grades, although they may not have been on the budget in the previous years, we consider that they are for students and how important and positive things are. We retain the existing solution that those students who from previous years inherited the corresponding number of points, so they did not pass all the exams during the school year, and thus the number of points was determined, to extend their funding within the fifth year of the year, or six months depending on the year they entered college. So, with this proposed solution, I think the state shows that it makes it the maximum possible for the current economic situation to meet students' demands to help them overcome this process, to say, the implementation of the Law on Higher Education in the best possible way. What else is important? The works relating to the accreditation process of higher education institutions have now been simplified in our opinion, we have specified and now we have set deadlines. Now it is precisely known in the accreditation process what whoever is doing, and we have thus improved the provisions of the law, because it has been happening for the past three or four years since the adoption of the existing law in the accreditation process, there have been a lot of empty walks. There were requirements for the establishment of higher education institutions, which were not subject to review because the Commission's obligation in the accreditation process was not established, there was a obligation, but there were no precise actions and deadlines that led to some practical situations that some requirements stood for a very long time and were not subject to consideration. In this case, we determine a very precise procedure. The Ministry of Education shall receive all necessary documentation in accordance with the provisions of this law. It does not verify the content of these documents, only to verify that all the requirements provided for by the law are met, the appropriate documentation relating to the study programmes, the bank guarantee, the obligation that a certain number of teachers will be in a permanent working relationship, when it determines that the documentation is in order, it sends it to the accreditation committee. If, on the other hand, it finds that the documentation is wrong, the applicant shall be asked for an additional time limit, if it fulfils the requirements thereon, the material shall be forwarded to the accreditation committee for the assessment. Unless, in turn, it responds to additional requirements, the Ministry considers that it has given up its request to set up a higher education institution. That documentation shall be reviewed by the Accreditation Commission. Therefore, they autonomously decide and decide whether or not to grant a certificate of this initial accreditation, a belief of initial accreditation. On the basis of this assurance, we issue, as Ministry, a work permit and within a year of the application of the programme, a higher education institution is obliged to ask the Commission to be subject to accreditation. Of course, the accreditation Commission will then determine in its procedure whether what it previously found to be an integral part of that belief of initial accreditation and practice, so as to ensure that there is agreement between what is in the documents and what is going on in practice. This existed before, it was nothing new, of course, to the Commission's decision that the party had the right to appeal to the National Council for Higher Education, we had now provided for the possibility, because it was one of the problems that we had received in the previous period, that the party had no possibility of appeal, judicial protection in the administrative procedure. Now that's the court's protection we've predicted. It is not the position of the Commission or the National Educational Council on their assessment of the content of the requirements, but only whether the whole procedure is respected and that is something new. I said that we have increased the number of members of the National Education Council, we have provided for the possibility of funding the University Conference, the Academy of Professional Studies Conference and the Student Conferences, that these funds will be provided in the budget of the Republic. We have provided for the possibility that the process of preparation and conditions for the defence of doctoral dissertation should be governed by the act of a higher education institution, but that this Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Research should give their opinion, because in this way, to be honest, we want to avoid what happened in some years before, that a large number of doctoral dissertations appear in certain higher education institutions within a short period of time and that the question of the scientific justification of these doctoral dissertations is then raised. We want there to be a precise procedure that will apply to everyone and, of course, only the best can fulfill it. I must say that we have provided that, if certain changes occur during the course of the student program, the higher education institution is obliged to notify the Ministry of Education about the amendment, or the completion of the programme, that there will be no radical changes, or that a new programme is created under the reason that only the existing one is being changed, because the new programme implies, logically, new accreditation. We predicted, respected colleagues, checking through regular accreditation every five years, and an extraordinary one at the request of the National Council for Higher Education of the Ministry or a higher education institution. We also predicted that the state as the founder could establish a higher education institution, i.e. we explained the provisions of the existing law. In our opinion, we did it much more precisely than we do now. The number of emeritus professors (emeritus), which is interesting, I have to mention, since clearly one wrong impression has created in the public that the number of emeritus professors has increased, has not increased, can only be three percent in the composition of a higher education institution and none more. We only predicted the possibility that all those teachers who were retired in that higher education institution, or university, could be chosen, of course, within three percent, and not that there could be more. We predicted for teachers a solution that they could be hired by a higher education institution for three years instead of two, as it has been so far. I say I can, and they don't have to, because there are colleges that hire teachers and there are those colleges that don't, but at 65 years of age, they end their university career. We have provided for the harmonisation of the level of studies and certain callings, and we have provided for certain deadlines for those colleagues who started studying under the previous law, and now we have given them one more opportunity to complete their master's studies in the years to come, or to start doctoral studies, or simply, if they decide to finish doctoral studies, we have given them a certain time limit for them to do so within a certain time period. I have to tell you, dear colleagues, about harmonising the call and level of studies, that there was one question in public – was this done in the best possible way. I've also learned that a few amendments have come about. We are open as legislators to solve this issue literally on the Committee, until the Committee's session when the detail law is discussed, because we want the best solution to be an integral part of this law. The same applies to all other topics related to this law. I'm saying this because this law in public followed one very broad, but, excuse me, to a certain extent, an absolutely incorrect story that favors one, the other, the third, the fourth, the fifth. You MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia know that the final judgment on the fate of every law is the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Whoever thinks a solution isn't good and makes arguments that need to change and make a better solution, we'll absolutely accept it, so we're open to all amendments. I hear it's already been filed, one, 70 amendments, so we'll be in a position to respond to these amendments in the coming days and, of course, to tell you that. Dear fellow Members of the People, that would be all for now. If, eventually, there's some question that I left aside, simply, I'm at my disposal to further explain it, because it seems to me that we did what we did when we started this process. We're just changing the Higher Education Act, not bringing in new ones. We'll bring a new one in a year or two, and I say in two years when this cycle of studies is over and when we give one assessment of the applicability and quality of this law and then make solutions that will make higher education even better. Why am I saying this? Practically, a European space of higher education has been created in Europe since the New Year. He exists years ago. It used to be called 'Bolonia', and now it's part of creating a European space of higher education. There are standards of quality that we, in my opinion, absolutely meet. The point is to increase student and teacher mobility. There's horizontal and vertical passing. The structure of the program remained the same and we, according to us, are promoting the Law and meeting the requirements set out in practice. I'm glad to point that out, we went out to meet the students' demands, because the students were someone who participated in the work of this task force. I have to say, it's not just our opinion. All these universities where the public debate was held, we conducted them at a large number of universities, absolutely accepted provisions regarding the way they were studied and related to students. The other provisions have been accepted in the majority and the essence lies before you today. I invite you to help us make these amendments and amendments even better if there is a need. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41324	Does the rapporteur of the Education Committee, MP Zoran Shami, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Laslo Varga, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? (No) Do the People's Messengers who have given their opinion, the MP of the people, Nikola Žutić, wish to attend the meeting of the Educational Committee? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41325	Gentlemen, Mr. Minister, at the meeting of the Committee on Education, I voted out the opinion most because of the changes in Article 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Higher Education. In this regard, the provision in Article 4 paragraph 1 point 5 of the 2005 Higher Education Act is amended, which speaks of respecting the humanistic and democratic values of European and national traditions. In Article 1 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education imposes an analytical globalist formula that also carries an anti-European spirit, which is – the work of higher education is based, among other things, on the principles of respecting the humanistic and democratic universal values of cultural heritage. Against this formulation, I have submitted an amendment requesting the erasure of such a language structure and I suggest a different formulation. I'm going to talk more widely about it when we explain this amendment. It is obvious that the new formulation of Article 1. The bill goes towards further mondialisation of higher education, and it clearly represents an additional alignment with the anti-European 'Bolonian' model of study that abolishes traditional pedagogical and scientific values. In my assessment, Article 4 will, following the adoption of the new formulation of point 5, be in line with point 7 of the same article, which is just prescribing alignment with the European system of education, i.e. 'Bolonja', which will cause the academic mobility of teaching staff and students to be improved, as stated in point 7). I'm just afraid that by strengthening the so-called academic mobility, we're going to have an extra hyperproduction of academic diplomats, especially masters. What will Serbia gain with such universal harmonisation? It will receive a dictatorship of the obligation to implement an international and anti-European educational model. It has not been forgotten that the "Bolonian" model of higher education is becoming increasingly suspected, so it is increasingly revised and even abolished in certain countries? So, this amendment to Article 4, not only threatens national, educational and wider cultural traditions, but also the old European university tradition "Sorbone", "Praga", "Beca", and "even", and old origin "Bolonje". All of us in this assembly are investing great energy related to the adoption of laws that must be in line with pan-European laws. However, it is forgotten that, unfortunately, the EU's survival is becoming increasingly questionable. Why is the adoption of so-called European laws, when the neoliberal Europe is weak and the question arises – why is the great legislative energy invested in so-called European laws that will have to be changed sooner or later? Unfortunately, the Bankocracy is destroying Europe and we have witnessed these facts. In the end, I would like to commend Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law, which in Article 10(1) of point 1) speaks of the composition of the National Educational Council, after the word "scientist" the words "in calling the scientific advisor" and after the words "field" are added to the words "as well as the representations of the institute in the composition of the university". It is good to raise the scientific level of the National Council by a provision that only third-degree institute scientists, in calling a scientific advisor, can be members of the National Educational Council. On the other hand, institute scientists will hopefully be able to access universities, which has been largely disabled so far. In fact, only certain individuals could be members of committees in defense of master's and doctoral work, while mentoring or giving lectures on certain topics was in the sphere of fiction. The organisation of seminars or courses by institute scientists at universities has also not been recorded in practice. Finally, an organisational remark is repeated, an old practice that the government's draft laws give MPs a day or two in front of a committee meeting, and then some improvisation is being carried out, a preparation that, unfortunately, is not adequate for the seriousness of the moment. The Committee on Education is once again pointed to such an infamous practice, but no one takes note of such complaints from MPs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41326	Does the word National MP Momir Markovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41327	Mr. Minister, I believe you've been very busy these days so you couldn't send this meeting to Sarajevo, its conclusions, guidelines, indicators, announcements, etc., because if you had, you would certainly have withdrawn this law from the procedure and then started as an intelligent man to look for other directions. Because as far as we could see from there, Europe will not, not in due time or at least not while you and I are alive, and then I don't know. That's why you should focus our education on some other forms of education in the world, so look, let's say, by which standards, by which the laws are being studied at "Lomonosova" and other Russian universities, because since 2000, so we've been saying, since the sunbeam of everything and everything, besides everything else and education, with the seal that we got with "Bolonja", a lot of things have been destroyed in the field of education, so now I see that you here, too, slowly but surely "Bolonja" is being cornered and now going on some globalistic, universal values, but I wouldn't talk about it. I'll talk about something else, what little there is in this law, about the social category of high school students and higher education, because as things stand, in that backwards Serbia, up to the "buldozer of revolution", many students were able to study because they received state scholarships. Since he left the general Sunflower and the economy and everything, since many firms have been closed, since hundreds of thousands of people have been out of work and can't train their children, the state, so the Ministry of Education, so you, Minister, have to take a little more care of it, because this is what only the rich kids are going to be able to study. On the other hand, the children of the wealthy will otherwise be able to school at the private universities you opened in the state of Serbia. That's exactly where you know the price. If you buy all year, then it's cheaper, you get a bonus etc. After all, the children of the dirty rich, as the president said, and I respect the saying he said, they don't have to buy a diploma, they're going to buy an entire university like, say, "Singidunum," and then they're going to determine demand and supply, they're going to set prices for each case, for every year, and for all the studies. Then we certainly won't be able to get those brilliant minds, because they can't get school. You don't take care of scholarships, like I said. They won't be able to finish colleges and then our extremely intelligent children will fall apart. I'll tell you a secret, and I'll help you, at least direct you a little bit. The SRS in its programme says – the first year free of charge for all students who enroll; the one who finishes the first year of second year is free of charge; the one who finishes second in due time, third, etc. To the end. Those who don't finish, they can study for ten and over years. Maybe you could start that way to reform your education, so when we get to power soon, we don't start from scratch. My dear Minister, I think this is an interpretation, a search for European values at all levels, and even in education, it has really come to the last limits, a team before the SRS has pointed out for years -- not Europe, gentlemen, do not bring our laws into line with European values. Merkel told you clearly. All those whose word and opinion are very valid in the EU have made it clear to you. If we ever are, and I said that you will surely retire until it is realized, we will be some attachment to Europe and only ask us for that unqualified or semi-skilled workforce. Our young talents, our young experts, will certainly not be able to place you in Europe, and Serbia's entry into Europe and the use of these European values are difficult for us to discuss. (President: five minutes. ) After all, look again, it must have been recorded, the conclusions of the Sarajevo summit, and you will understand everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41328	Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41329	Comrade Markovic, I would like to thank you for this suggestion regarding the social dimension. I thought that I had highlighted enough the importance of the social dimension of this law, but you convinced me that it was insufficient, which means that I should do even more, because this law absolutely has one social dimension and it is recognised when the provisions of this law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, are more carefully looked at. The state predicted the right for all those students to study and to pass all the exams, and who have a good average to be absolutely exempt from paying any study fees. We have now accepted this criterion that within 120% of those on the burden of the budget, i.e. the state, their order within that quota should be determined by quality. So whoever learns, passes all the exams, has a better average, he'll be inside. The second thing, I mention once again, we have accepted the obligation to finance all those students who have not made the right number of points during the school year. For those who started in 2006-2007, if this number of points were followed, approximately, those students who had 65 points left, we predicted the possibility that the state would finance them for the fifth year. For those students since 2008-2009, it is 36 points, for them the possibility of being paid another 36 points. Our colleague Markovic, we have tried to introduce a provision into this law that would resolve the question of the cost of tuition, which is – from now on, the state will give consent to the cost of tuition. It's logical that we'll take care of it, and we won't allow certain state colleges to increase the cost of tuition by explaining it by inflation or any other reason. This is what I'm saying for a little bit, but the state is absolutely on time to service all the obligations related to employee earnings. What's our problem, because of the state of the economy, the state of the budget, is that we're not regular and we're not paying the total amount, related to the material costs of the university. It's something that exists. I must tell you, dear fellow Members of the People, that this is the debt we inherited since 2002 or 2003, believe it or not, since 2002 or 2003, this debt of failure to fulfil obligations relating to the material costs of the university, or higher education institutions. And, just to keep that social dimension, we predicted the possibility of giving consent to the level of tuition prices and state colleges. You have another dimension that was discussed by counterpart Markovic, who we should all seriously consider. We have young people who want to study and their right to study wherever they want. Every year we warn young people – study what can bring you a faster, better job tomorrow. I speak consciously – faster, better business. But that's their right that they use when they're committed to one or another college, where they decide for themselves whether they're going to enroll in a college that could be, like, a deficit profession or some college where there's been extra personnel for years back. What will be in our opinion is the logical thing to do during the coming time, and I count that it will be for the next few years, is when in two years we are evaluating this law on higher education and its effects, to bring in a strategy that will be in function of the development of the Republic of Serbia and then we will say – for these profiles, the state pays literally everything for these colleges, including maybe some additional scholarship or whatever. And for these others, no one will stop them from working, everyone has to be aware that the choice of that profile carries the possibility of finding a job within the desired time limit. It seems to me that the social dimension in this law is really present. There is one thing I have said several times as a minister, but it is clearly under-reviewed – the huge number of students in the Republic of Serbia is in a different way covered by, let me say, the state's concern i.e. The state allocates funds for their study, their accommodation, their diet, their scholarship. We also have a youth talent fund within the Ministry of Education and Sports, and we have a talent fund within our ministry, we give credits, scholarships. Local self-government is helping. A lot has been done. Now it's necessary, except for the better economic situation, to work on quality, to really see if the quality system in each higher education facility is appropriate. In order to work on the quality system, we need to know why we have the result of our passability as it is and to be honest with each other, especially with these children, to create a system that will be functional. You're talking about Lomonos. I can tell you that when my colleague Fursenko sits next to me or I sits next to him, because Russia and Serbia sits next to each other at international conferences on higher education, and that he talks about higher education and the European space of higher education and, believe me, I have never heard him speak words against creating a European space of higher education. I am telling you, Russia and Serbia sit side by side at international conferences on higher education and counterpart Fursenko is someone who promotes the system of European high education space, because 47 countries in Europe participate in this process. In the next decade, that space will be established. If we weren't part of it, we'd make a limit to those kids, put a barrier that shouldn't exist. We need to work on quality, make our system absolutely compatible with others, that children who finish our state colleges, create conditions to stay in Serbia, but if they want to continue studies, master's or doctoral studies, that they can do so with full right and with a dose of knowledge and quality at another higher education facility anywhere in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41330	National MP Momir Markovic is again registered in the electronic system. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (National MP Momir Markovic, from the place: I was misread. ) Right to replica, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41331	Free education is only half the fees, Mr. Minister. You must bear in mind that Serbia has destitute, especially from 2000 to today, that there is no longer a middle layer that could educate its children, people do not have bread. Now let's go, let's promote Professor Vojislav Seselj's book "File" and meet people, a lot of kids stay with high school because they don't have the parents to enroll them. Only half is free schooling. The other half is apartment, books, wardrobe, travel, food and children. Credits and scholarships are the only way to make it possible for these kids to gain knowledge, to gain education. And believe that these kids are going to bring back to this country a lot more than the kids of those who are going to buy, not the university, but the entire university, for example. "Singidum." I know that in 2002, 2003, these debts were made to the Ministry of Education. It seems to me that it was then, Mr. Gašo Knezevic. Normally, you can expect something like that from him. Let's leave it, about those exes all the best. I understand you, and I understand the Minister of the Russian Federation when he says he has nothing against European learning standards, but in Europe, not Russia. They're a completely different programme and everything else in Russia. This country has many talented children. It's a shame that some around you, I don't say for you, won't understand that children should be given the opportunity to school, because this Serbia, to remind you, gives Tesla and Pupin and many others, and so does Dr Vojislav Seselj. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41332	The word has a folk MP, Radica Jocic, who held an opinion at the session of the European Integration Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the Committee on European Integration, I have issued an opinion on this law in order to try to draw attention to a few things as a member of the SRS. In the SRS, we hoped that this proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Higher Education of many things under the previous law would finally clarify, which is probably also the objective of amending and supplementing. Unfortunately, however, that is not the case. The SRS parliamentary group has submitted a number of amendments to clarify some issues, which we will discuss further in the debate. Now I'd just draw attention to the next one. By the time college enrolment began, there were two weeks left, and under the Act of Warning there are 15 other colleges and about 150 study groups in the accreditation process. We know that accreditation is a process and that higher education institutions are removing shortcomings until the last minute, as well as that accreditation has already received over 500 student groups, but can't we wait one year of enrollment without the risk of students enrolling in groups that the commission can decide not to accredit them unless the colleges have acted on orders from the Act of Warning. How long are our kids going to go to colleges where school is done on weekends, in impromptu areas, and it's being held by teachers traveling from other cities? In this way, the efforts of real students are discredited, their employment is made difficult, because employers because of those who do not have accreditation and real colleges are placed in the same basket. In addition to opening four eyes so as not to be deceived in various ways and to question your diploma, there is also a question of too high tuition. However, these changes and additions, as you said earlier, are intended to give consent to the level of tuition by the Ministry of Education, but this ministry should also make sure that this is not only a recommendation, because, as in most cases, most higher education institutions did not respect it. As we all know, a large number of students are from families who support themselves with fifteen thousand dinars, many of the pensions, which are the only income to those families, so if it's a crisis for colleges, the crisis is also for students. And if we're always talking about equal chances for everyone, we should also let students have equal chances. Speaking of chances, I'd like to mention Project First Chance, which refers to young interns, finished students. I appeal to the minister to advocate that this project does not serve employers to exploit young labour, but rather that, according to the project, it is adequately implemented and that these young people are at least minimum paid, not to be paid late months, so that they do not lose the little enthusiasm they have. I would just like to mention trying to make an effort to complete the standard of competence for teacher profession, which, of course, refers to fit in secondary schools, and to consider similar solutions for higher education, so that students have, in this way, mentioned earlier, the same chances in the same universities, whatever city, and not that the passing of exams depends on the will and mood of teaching staff. Of course, the SRS is opposed to the entire Bologna system, which in practice proved to be worse than originally thought. Of course, the ministry should first work on restoring the authority of teachers, both in high school and high school. In the end, and the propose of previous stories, I'd like the minister to suggest what colleges are that can provide faster, better jobs? I'm in a situation right now that I should recommend to a future student what to try to sign up for, and I'm certainly not in a situation, and I guess most parents, too, that I know what college is that can provide for a faster, better job. If the minister has any useful suggestions, I believe many would welcome it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41334	Does the People's MP Petar Jojic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word starting from the smallest to the greatest? MP Nikola Krpić? People's Ambassador Balint Pastor? MP Velimir Ilic? National MP Nenad Prokic? Please sign in. Here you go. The word is held by MP Nenad Prokic, an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41335	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the ministries, colleagues, all the jobs regarding the adoption of the Bologna Declaration are running late for a decade in Europe, and I would not be too hard on our delays and failures. I must say, my impression is that this reform is essentially not even started here. A fundamental reform has been formally launched here, and it is not disputed, but the vast majority is trying to essentially keep it the same. It is not the essence of reform that we all now have some points within our grades or that we have new titles, but it is a fundamental change in the education structure of citizens compared to new technologies. That's the bologna target. That is, that the 6% or 7% of the country's highly educated population, compared to 20% in Europe, is increased in percentage and, more importantly, skilled in modern challenges. That's the bologna target. Our education is still suited to that long-lost industrial revolution. And, now that we realize that all these large factories have served nothing or have served to find out that they are not serving anything, we need to change that surviving system of education and the debauchery of those educated in society by raising the average of secondary education by one degree, the most massive one, they used to be so-called. professional schools. This, in fact, means reducing elitism when it comes to education, i.e. the massification of more educated and more usable labour, which is necessary for the modern state. Master and doctoral studies on this idea remain the elite levers of the education system. The problem that arises is the loss of elitism in that most massive segment of education, one that is one step away from the middle and many do not want to experience it. That's why the resistance is so big. And these many have, in fact, the most of all. That's why these resistances are huge, not only when it comes to new titles, but when it comes to "The Bologna" at all. Such a process, however, is never possible to neglect, nor stop in the whole struggle for mankind's progress. Once two centuries ago, the elementary school was elite, so, one minute, it just couldn't have been like that anymore. Now it's time for that to happen to the university. One part of him will no longer be elite, but must become a mass phenomenon. What's mass is not elite if society wants to be successful. In such an inert society as ours, Bologna will be adopted through the nightmare of resisting and obstructing, but it will be adopted, because it must be because life draws in that direction. In the same painful way, we have only half adopted the European idea, so we will adopt once and for all NATO's idea and all the other ideas that impose the 21st century in this space. So there will be in this case according to that Milosevic: 'If you will, you will, if you will, and you will'! The Bologna Reform is facing students who now have to work all the time, not just before the exam. In general, it's not like that and who knows when it's gonna be. If the final exam carries 30% of the grade, and that 70% is not done properly for a wide variety of reasons, everything becomes pointless. Let's ask ourselves how many colleges can such a regime provide at this point? Of course, there is still no and there must be no passing without the final oral part of the exam, no matter how valuable the student was during the pre-election activities, because the institution of the final exam is a sacred matter of higher education. But the fact that colleges are not able to provide this continuous work with students who are wanted in the new system and it is very worrying. What no one's ever realized is that there's no record of the year, there's only a record of the subject. Well, if you don't collect 60 points, you listen to it again next year and type in more items at the same time to collect enough points. In order for all of this to really apply, it is necessary to amend the Funding Act from the ground, as well as the rules for obtaining student homes for a year, or an old system. It can no longer work and brings up a million problems. Students face chaos that doesn't have any effective exits. I'm saying it's very hard, or "Bologna," or "Bologna," no. Every calculator brings insurmountable problems. I'm afraid the general indecision of society is manifesting here in its worst form. Just because it hasn't been suspended for years, just means we don't understand what continuous learning means and what is it really about? No one understood that points are being added to the continuity, and they don't intersect every year, so we get absurd, that students with more total points lose the right to the budget, and they get it with fewer points. We have to decide: we're either gonna catch up with the world really, or we're just gonna act like we're gonna catch it. It's our tendency to imitate and cheat, to turn our heads from trouble, to ignore its essence, in the end, that it's always been the greatest source of all our problems. In relationships with the world, we must give it up once and for all because of ourselves. The next important feature of "Bolone" is accreditation, or quality control. Otherwise, we have the Accreditation Commission and it's working seriously, but we don't have standards, or we're confused in the standards of accreditation of an institution with the accreditation of programs. We're not even dealing with the accreditation of the program, we're doing a formal count. And the particular problem is that the Commission is not an independent institution, so as such it cannot become a member of the European Accreditation Network, because they must all be independent. It would be very important to get into that network. I didn't see in the law that an independent commission was scheduled. The truth is that almost all of our state colleges anywhere in the world could not be accredited. You can't have colleges with so many students and 80 teachers. That's beyond all standards. And when you ask the Commission how the Faculty of Law in Belgrade was accredited, they say – well, should we abolish it? As soon as you let something like that happen, everything else is unthinkable. In fact, privates are the easiest to achieve formal conditions, but with them is another kind of problem. For those of you who don't want to learn there, it's much easier for them to pass, than for the state college, because they paid for the studies. So, in some ways, they bought our terms and degrees. The purchase of a diploma does not exist in any society that takes itself seriously. When our private colleges exist for over 700 years, such as in England, that problem will probably never arise again, but in the meantime it is also how it is. Also, there should be a list of professions that require a state degree. In Germany, you can't be a judge if you graduate from private school. Is it in our country's interest to have judges who ended up in private colleges, that's the question? The biggest delay with Bologna began in 2004, when Kostunica's government gave freedom to the university to make its own law. Neither in the world nor in Serbia, anything of itself has ever changed. As the DSS abolished any pressure to do the job, the government did not even carry out what needed to be done. To be clear, it was not a priority in the government of Zoran Djindjic either. Everything was initiated in an alternative academic educational network before October 5th. What I said doesn't mean that these governments didn't want to push that reform, but in my opinion, they did it very slowly and timidly. The 2005 law, which you mentioned, probably caused too much uncertainty and confusion, and let it be known that in all the countries that successfully implemented the government's reform were the ones that actually made the most serious moves. Is this government determined to implement the reform? How many parties are dealing with ethical norms and principles necessary for this reform to be implemented as it should and what should, in fact, be? Perhaps this is the opportunity for the party in power to show full social responsibility, although it is very important to avoid solutions in this law that no one in Europe will be able to understand and recognize the reason for it. Graduations at three, four and five years of age will certainly be something that no one in Europe can understand. Everything you put between those things that exist there, no one out there will understand what it is and who you are with that diploma of yours. "Matura," "Bechelor," "master" and "doctorate" are terms they understand there, everything else will be very difficult to explain, if you ask me and impossible. And when something in our approach to Bologna isn't worth it at European level, why do we even educate such people? Well, because the universities were afraid that the state wouldn't fund the "master" and the solution was that our studies sometimes take four years, because that's how we provide funding for four years. The idea of "the becellor" is so destroyed, and the "master" is unthinkable, because in a year, little can be done. Instead of cutting to - three plus two right now, we're introducing another level. Further entry of conditions for different titles into the law itself destroys any competition. The quality of a single university depends on it itself, so let it, alone, and prescribe it. As prescribed, he will return. This way they're all equal, and that's nowhere to be found. Not all universities are the same as all professors are not the same. Is there anything clearer than that? I should say, as a longtime professor, I don't believe in the participation of students. They're the biggest teachers to cover their own troubles. The students here want as many test deadlines as possible, and there's only one in the world. There must be some reason why. There are six of them here under this law, and the students would if they were 12. There is no deadline in the world, but there are great responsibilities of teachers if a small number of students complete their course. Serious involvement of students would mean seeking the responsibility of teachers, as well as a guarantee that they would be able to learn something during the year. However, even in consultations with the LDP MP group ahead of the debate, students fought ahead only for some privileges that would allow them to have an additional memorial. Students, like everyone in this society, because they're so raised, they deal with the consequences, not the causes. So they turn out naive and work in favor of their own damage, like everyone in this society, except his tycoons. Mr. Minister, we'll have three amendments. Some of the amendments we have already presented to you, we have withdrawn, because you have warned us that you have already done so. In particular, we stress the one about reducing the tuition for employed students because of taxes paid to the state through their work, when it comes to students. When it comes to teachers, how at least the best among them, those best scientific workers get a hundred percent state guarantee of their own intellectual autonomy and the completeness of academic freedom, which sometimes does not have to agree with current trends in society, we will seek a 'tenier' that protects against an administration that could possibly put pressure on their new ideas that are not in line with current social trends and flows. Adequate education is a plug for happier society and that society that is finally and forever included in world flows. If that plug is wrong, everything else is not enough for prosperity and a better future. Finally, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to thank you, Minister, as well as your associates, for the availability and openness you have shown in the preparatory talks for this debate. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41336	Thirteen minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41337	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all expected the law to finally appear, that final version, and that only high school to experience one reform, so that this issue can be resolved, in no way any partial laws, changes, conscription, etc., that we don't have any final solution. It is always announced – it prepares, the right law is being prepared, this is all a transitional solution. Every year, we have some kind of transitional solution, a little bit of students, a little media campaign, that we've done some cosmetics, and we're going into a new law right now. I expected the minister, however, to show up with one true version. It is time to get one of the serious laws that Europe and the world require, so that we can say – we have finally made a reform of education. What does that mean? This means that the best ones, here at first there were discussions, get scholarships, get a chance to school, that Serbia should take its elite, which was created through primary and secondary schools, to throw into the first place. Like this, it's not there yet. How is one peasant going to train a child if he was a kilo of apple three dinars? You'll give him a free pass so he doesn't pay for his exams, etc., so he doesn't pay for a year, when he has nothing to eat, to come to Belgrade, he has nowhere to live. How can he survive, from what? What other companies credit these days, or scholarship the best students? It used to be actual. Nobody does that. I remember, great, when we came from the province to study in Belgrade, we received scholarships if we were good from companies that received us as engineers afterwards. Now it's gone. No one has money for any investment in knowledge. Knowledge rarely interests anyone. That's why we fell in many segments of the economy. Our drastic fall is in construction. Look at the energy. We can't track new technologies. All that's new is that we have to pay fat or buy. Kragujevac is a university center that has so many colleges, but it's impossible that so many experts, so many staffs, can't get out in 50 years one new model car, to win some new technology themselves. We have to pay for all of this fat, to buy it, because it doesn't invest in real knowledge and real personnel. I don't mind opening private colleges. That's good, let's have some competition, but I haven't heard yet that the privateer has opened up a construction, architectural, engineering college, etc., but they're opening up some high-speed colleges that end very quickly, and I'm not going to pick it up right now, but in this room, some of them have been sitting down for a few months, because they needed it at a certain point. Many who have also completed these high-speed colleges today are directors of very significant companies. Today we have in private colleges people who have acquired huge capital, because his dad was the CEO, he worked on the stock market, so he turned big money, Dad says -- today buy this, tomorrow what, move it over there, transfer it here, and now there are some bosses, so we watch them strut on TV, open colleges all over the world. And what are the knowledge that comes from those colleges? I am therefore to support those of the best, best quality, to allow every child to study and the state very seriously must consider free education of high-level personnel. It's not some big shot. Imagine these 18m euros we gave for this vaccine that someone bought for something that did not exist in Serbia. And imagine that we invested it in education to make students happy, how much we would cheer the family, how much we would improve quality and in studies, of course, and how much we would improve the quality of the staff. So, we don't do that. A lot of money goes to the side. Here's the latest, you read, you see in the papers, and Chume decided to make college. Why not? If those who took part in the Index affair can move forward, teach in other republics, they're all back to work. Like, any insufficient evidence?- I'm sorry. So here - people bought, sold diplomas. They proved themselves, proved themselves, arrested, and, of course, are now back on duty. Therefore, we expected a serious reform and something very good to happen. However, these political colleges are now being made. Here, some politicians who are supposed to support the government, they first have conditions to get a college, and some are looking for a university, and they get a university. If the government depends on two MPs – you'll get a cold university, you'll get a college, it doesn't matter at all. It doesn't matter which way it comes, how, who's going to teach there, how. Is it cheaper for these students to give them scholarships to come here or to some big center to finish colleges or to lead them a whole budget of professors who will come down and how much it costs one such student and where he will show up, etc. I repeat, we haven't had our new technologies in the last 20 years that we used to run. Let's just take the Bridge. She patented her own bridge construction. Today it does not make any serious bridge in Serbia. Why? There's no frame, there's nothing, there's all new technologies, so someone new has to come down and take off the smoke. Here, this bridge on Savi, I hear these days, it's also asking for an increase in funds. Oh, my God, he's not pushing 300 million euros?- I'm sorry. And such, similar, are the Austrians, cheaper, in the Danube near Beška for 50m euros. But we decided to give it all away. Foreigners keep us under surveillance on many roads. Why? We don't have our personnel. They don't want kids studying technical colleges, because we completely ignored the technique. Let's take new kinds of energy, alternative visions of energy. We're pioneers here. No one's come up with that subject yet. We don't do that at all. Is it necessary for someone from the world to come and show us to make a windmill, a photovoltaic or something else that's going on in the world today, not to talk about solar energy that's become common knowledge in the world? We don't do that. We don't do what life means. We're dealing with something that's completely out-of-date. That's why many people realize it's important to get any degree. That shows both this government and its interest. Very often I listen to an orthopedic talking about construction, a man kills himself to explain to us about urbanism many questions. I don't know now how the architecture professors who follow it, how do they react to such things, and how do they listen?- I'm sorry. But the man decided to learn construction, to introduce new technologies, to make the cheapest apartment, instead of operating on his knee, not to go abroad. Why didn't he operate on Tomica Milosavljevic? Did he have to go outside to operate? Right? That's where he was supposed to move forward, not allow our minister to go outside to operate, and he's supposed to collect bottles around the Danube and Sava, and Peru. The bottles can be collected and some Pera, Zika, Mike, we'll find someone. It's not that important, and there's no need for a special diploma. When we see the bottles thrown at the lake, then we take some of that and collect, right? So, Mr. Minister, do something. Is it possible that our health care allowed a doctor, who needed to call a doctor, to become a director, to become a powerful man, and sometimes as a student, to get six on a surgery exam, to make the commission come in after 15, 20 years, poor some professor, and to take the exam again, and imagine, a man got 10?- I'm sorry. And made lunch, bought everything alive, got a dime and became a doctor. What's this all about? Imagine now that we'd all go back, what's who missed out on life, and when we get political power or some calling, or economic power, well, now, we want to have a big average; so we're gonna get some poor professor, and the whole dean comes along, and they bring people all the papers, all Wednesdays, and there in some cabinet we pass the exam, we get 10, and we take them all to lunch, and we become a doctor. Now, what about education like that? What is the motive for the young ones who are the most popular? The motive is to go to America, the EU, and now go mass to Slovenia. The other day there was a show on RTS, how our top quality students go to Slovenia. They receive them by hand, give them scholarships, give them good homes, give them everything, and say, "Come, we know what we will do with you." They accept them from the heart, they stay there to study, etc. It's not good and it doesn't lead to good. So we need to think about a serious reform and do something, if we think we're making results in the country. It's a shame that we biggest producers, here we take, as many as we have agronomic colleges, and technology at agronomic colleges, etc., we can't make one ketchup, we export to Bulgarian tomatoes, we buy ketchup. There's nothing we can do. We have to import everything. Take it with us, it's all from imports! Why? We don't have a frame that knows it and can do it. If we have quality knowledge with professors and great will in students and student potential, but we don't have equipment, we don't have technology, we don't have labs to teach people to do it and accept it, but everything comes from the outside. We're about to be pickers of blackberries, raspberries, mushrooms, and everything else is going to work. Here, now that we sell Telecom, why we can't develop new technologies in telecommunications, why we can't develop new technologies in many branches of the economy to develop new technologies. Should someone come and explain to us how to do this? Now, we don't have those potentials for now, nor do we try to have them. So we're going to open up some colleges that are going to open up to dads and mom's sons, when they have nothing to do and they're doons, and they have some money, they're going to open up college, somewhere, buying up some suspicious professors and, of course, they come. Quality must be paid. Quality must be created. If we want to be someone and something in Europe, if we want to join that EU, what are our new names from Serbia that produce something. We can only count on exports with new modern technologies, and not with outdated, completely exceeded, etc. We can only progress here with party obedience. That's what they prove at every turn. If you're partying in the right place, making progress wherever you want, you'll be whatever you want. Here the other day, I'm uncomfortable, sitting on that traffic and communications committee, where I'm president, we end up here having a public debate, when we conclude a public debate in principle, then we schedule a committee this afternoon. Then we wonder why we have the board, if it's all over, it's over. Guys, we're getting funny on our own. We're all doing pro-forms to satisfy some form that the Committee has been held, that something has happened, and in fact, nothing has happened, because what we're up to, that is, the ruling majority of this vote and it's over. I know the minister has good intentions. Knowing Mr. Minister, I believe that he will try to push through a real law, and that is why I expected us not to make these cosmetics, but to push through something real, good, quality, long-term and to say -- here, this assembly composition has brought it, voted it, and created, this government, no matter what I did in opposition, it's done, not to make a little cosmetics, clean, to satisfy some form that something is happening. So don't take this all for granted. Of course, there are a lot of others who need to be involved in all of this. We have some engineering chambers that serve pro-forma, we have some pro-forma associations. It's all sets that don't have any effect. Now, if we were to ask them what means are turning there, turning around, what did you do positively in this country... Is it possible there isn't any technology? We can't build a vacuum drought in Serbia, here, for 20 years. That's what everyone in the world does. Don't we have to buy every little thing out there, and can't we make it here, design it, get it in order? How do you get work licenses? Whatever you want. Now you have a fantasy purse, got a license and went to these poor companies, failed, took engineers and appeared as a great designer, as a big house, and many with two employees like to put in the company, it looks very nice and very important. I repeat, I expected you, Mr. Obradovic, to do more than that, but here many who know nothing from a particular area are pretending to know everything, that they are experts for everything, because they have political power, they may have financial power, and then they can literally do whatever they want and tell us all kinds of stories here. I'm very sorry that the kids who want to, who have the potential can't show up and show up, don't have a chance to get a job tomorrow. The government must, in order to raise quality and interest in studying, secure new jobs for final students. What's the motive of a doctor to fight for a job, if he knows he can't get a job maybe never? You leave now, everyone asks you – there's room, you want to volunteer? Who can volunteer? Mom and Dad's son. Someone who wants to start a family to live on their salary can't volunteer. And it needs to be turned off. There's more and more talk and laws on volunteering are being passed. So, what are these new technologies we've been working on? What institutes are these? Well, we, people, destroyed a Tolak who was someone and something in this Europe. And that's why we had this vaccine story. Because we don't listen to people who worked in a facility called "Torak," who advised us, told us and told us a story not to do it like this. But Miskovic found to buy the vaccine cheaply, the World Health Organization found a combination and we all fit in and completely broke everything that was going on. There are many professions where no one will work and many professions die, many branches of the economy die where we used to be leading, because we used to mean something, and now we don't mean anything. Here's how many doctors we have, and what are the waiting lists for heart surgery? Not to be allowed to open a private, not to be given a private to work. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41338	Mr. Ilic, it's been more than 20 minutes. Mr. Minister, come in. Mr. Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41339	I thank you, Mr. Ilic, for this information. Let me tell you, the official number of students from Serbia in the Republic of Slovenia is 129 at all universities and universities. That's what my high education and science colleague, Mr. Golobic, told me on Friday. So, officially 129 from Serbia in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41340	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41341	Dear Presidents, Mr. Ministers and Associates of the Ministry of Education, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS-JS Parliament Club, I would like to join in considering this bill, with the conclusion that our Parliament club is a single comprehensive analysis of everything that has been offered to us, with an analysis of what was a practice in the higher education of our country, which was regulated by previous laws and that all the discussions we have heard and I have no doubt, and those we will hear will be valuable in terms of adopting a better law at this point, which does not mean that it will be perfect, far from it. Certainly, Mr. Minister himself has announced that it may be the passing of a new law in a year or two, once we have seen the effects of this law and when we need to make a new step in this direction. For these reasons, he certainly deserves the attention and discussion of Mr Prokic, who pointed very critical of all that, and certainly he is one of the conversators who is competent, just because he is part of the process. Almost, and I, too, believe our MPs, in one part, perhaps in a good part, we could accept certain objections that, I believe, were given well-meaningly. On the other hand, criticising what has been offered and one practice so far by other MPs, somehow leaves the impression that they themselves in the previous period have not participated in all this, that this has fallen from the sky somewhere, that something has failed, that something has not been done well, etc., and then we can ask the question – who destroyed it, who led to it, etc.? Of course, this kind of confrontation, in terms of exorcising who's guilty and why he's guilty at a given moment, is already an unusable sphere, so to speak, of political struggles, and for us as the SPS-JS Group, it's certainly not really the goal. We certainly want to make one contribution in this direction and through the acceptance of some criticisms, through the presentation of certain analyses that will make it better in this area. That's why I have to remind you that the law in this area was passed in 2005. It's a fact to come from. The law was then passed from then on to the government in the best of intentions, in terms of the acceptance of the Bologna system, the harmonisation of everything that is practice in the good part of Europe, in order to create one competition, i.e. the competence of higher education institutions and institutions in the whole area, and certainly in order to create competence and in our very Serbian space, which, of course, is not so simple, nor can it be done with one law, nor can it be done with any amendments and additions to that same law. It's a very complex process because there are habits, there are stereotypes in the way we think and understand all of that, simply, we as a society are difficult to change. We may also look too closely at and burdened with certain habits and views from the past, we do not have enough elasticity and opportunity to view it more widely. We must put forth a great effort, a great will, to look at all this much wider, but with the intention of changing ourselves better and to create new provisions that will allow us to gradually change society in general, of course, certain parts and segments and practices in which we live. So I would say on behalf of our parliamentary group that at this point in time it is in line with the possibilities, respecting what our realities are in the area of higher education, one really good step has been made, which is not, of course, enough in general. But certainly, one positive step towards improving the legislation in the area of higher education, in terms of improving what was brought in 2005, and not with the assessment that it was no good, perhaps at that point it couldn't have been better, but, well, after four or five years we did something in 2008, it's certainly already a brighter situation and we can make some things right now. In doing so, these amendments and additions to the Law go in the direction of respecting reality, they do not seem rigid, they take into account the social dimension and the present moment, as well as the economic crisis that is present and in a wider space not only in our country, the social dimension that is directly related to the students who study us. It also contributes to students in the sense that they do not seem to be sharp cuts that they would be damaged, in terms of obtaining conditions for enrollment in the following year, in terms of allowing them to compete that they can stay on the budget, if they have met certain conditions, in terms of finding a solution to the calling, about continuing studies and obtaining doctoral dissertations etc. So I would say that these changes and additions deserve one commendation. Of course, we do not glorify them to the extent that they are perfect, but for these reasons I believe that not only our MP group will support a good part of the MPs. What I would refer to individually, in this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, is the fact itself, somewhere at the beginning, that, for example, the National Council is expanding, not for some reason, these or those, but, above all, from essential, because the structure itself, as well as the increase in quantity from 16 to 21, and seeing that structure, I think it improves the competence of that body, which is very important in regulating important issues in the area of higher education. Also, it deserves the attention of the Institute of Initial Accreditation, and the further development of the act of accreditation through one process and through one period of time, and through the possibility and request to be restored in certain moments and certain periods, it certainly goes in the direction of creating legal conditions that assume the quality of studies and the quality of staff that will come out tomorrow not only at state colleges, but also at private colleges. In fact, that part of higher education, private colleges and universities, noting that it is not our intention to do a degree and disqualification at the moment, but the state must, with all its instruments through legal provisions, take into account various instruments to take care of what is equal to studies and conditions, and quality, and personnel that have a certain quality to come out of both public and private colleges. This permanent quality control is both necessary and commendable. The council of high school institutions finally thinks it's going to work out. It was really illegal, but the law so far did not allow it, and even some of the laws that we have passed in the meantime did not respect the reality and reality that we have in Serbia today, so no one who was elected could enter the college councils, appointed, who is in local self-government on this or on that basis, etc. So the question is, people, who can get into the council of college, do we need to find some anonymouss that haven't earned attention anywhere to be elected? There's this provision here that says that they can't be on behalf of the founders named those who belong to higher education institutions, which is logical, and people who are in the authorities of the administration, who are in charge of the field of education and science. I believe that now, finally, these college councils, which in many cases have expired, will be quickly elected, so higher education institutions can function normally. It is also good to determine the status of assistants in higher education institutions under the same conditions that apply to both students of doctoral studies and to those who have completed the master's degree, but are in the process of giving and obtaining doctoral dissertations and completed doctors who are in a working relationship. Of course, for every commendation and that the student who has achieved 60 points in the current year has the right to be financed in the next year within a fixed quota, or number, within what is also a ranking, and that it is a variable category, which means that he cannot remain such a condition that he who once was on the budget can be only if he fulfils the conditions, and that he who in the meantime had motives, had reason to progress, to learn enough and achieve high results cannot do so. I think we're one of those wrong logics of this occasion, of course, that social dimension is how important it is. We through several laws concerning higher education, on various grounds, and what is a student standard, etc. We take care of this social dimension, but of course to the extent possible, within our social system. So we're not in Tito's time anymore. Now someone would say – unfortunately or not. I'm not going to open that controversy and it's not about any of my personal attitudes, but we are now living in another system defined by the 2006 Constitution. And we can't be right-handed as a political commitment right now, and we can stand for some ultralative attitudes about looking for certain conditions that aren't compatible with what's said and what's actually possible. But the amount of tuition according to these changes is determined with previous consent and giving the Ministry's opinion, which is certainly good. Of course, as an element of the government, which rules the country, the Ministry will be most competent to assess how far these borders can go in increasing tuition at a given time, respecting what today is economic power, as well as living conditions in Serbia. So, Mr. Ministers and gentlemen of the Ministers, the MEP Group, I certainly repeat, is not glorifying this law, or these amendments and supplementing it as an absolutely great achievement, but certainly the step you have made in one way is to improve all of this in terms of higher education, and that, in a way that some things, to say, are ironed out in one sufficient, elastic and wise way, is certainly testifying that we are on the right path to improve things there, and this will be a prerequisite for further changes and additions, or for the adoption of new laws, and a new law on higher education, which will be better than this one. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41342	MP Zoran Shami has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41343	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, I will begin with one criticism that I have already said on the Education Committee. It is that there is a very serious law before us, which I would generally call a non-political law, therefore, a law that allows completely different political options to, somewhere, have the same view of it, because I can't imagine that different political options can have some important different understandings about the law on higher education, in general, a package on education, which is why it bothers us terribly that we got the law on Friday, i.e.. I won it on Friday and those living in Belgrade, and those living inside, unfortunately, could not see it until Monday. It's really a terrible little time to take such a serious law seriously and to respond to it in a serious way. In my time with regard to this law, I have mentioned to Mr. Minister that it would be good, that before the law goes to the government at all, given the nature of this law, while it is still in the draft that a serious conversation with the Education Committee might be held, so before, personally, I think we have a quality, competent Committee on Education. I believe that perhaps some of the misunderstandings could be removed by then. Instead, we got the law we needed within 24 hours to act, and it's basically not good. Of course, I can't blame the President of the Assembly right now, because this is an extraordinary session and what the Government is planning for the session, but I think that both the President of the Assembly and the more visible representatives of the ruling majority would have to, at the very end of the line, on these occasions, when it comes to laws that aren't at the same time ratifications or some minor changes to some laws, but it is about laws that treat a serious area, however, to provide the Assembly and MPs with sufficient time for them to study the law. Otherwise, right away, it's natural for the Higher Education Act to experience its change after a few years. That change is not really too big. This law has 33 members, which is about eight of the members of the previous law. It'll be good if in some future change, and I believe it will happen, by some logic, that some kind of change could have five or six members, no more. The acting law, Mr. Minister, particularly praised the amendments to Article 19, i.e. the rules of the game on enrolment in the coming year, regarding whether students are on the budget or self-financed. I must admit that I am very pleased that such a change has been made, for the simple reason that the DSS proposed two years ago amendments to the law with this idea, that students who carry out the necessary results, whether they were on the budget or self-financed, should be placed in the same category and open a competition between them. However, we have submitted one amendment, but not to change the essence of your proposal, but to maybe define it a little more precisely, simply so we don't leave any doubt. Unfortunately, I spent 30 years active at the university and colleges are masters to make clear things out of things that wouldn't happen, and I suggested a slightly different formulation that wouldn't leave any room for any formulations. Because of the public, and also because of colleagues who may not be enough, by nature things have deepened in this law, it is the following. We've had one so far, I have to admit, a completely pointless rule, that whoever entered the budget in the first year stays that way until the end, and whoever paid for it, again, remains to pay alone, independent of the results achieved during schooling. The rule of the game, at least as I interpret it and how it can only be interpreted, is that the admission in the first year decides the entrance exam. The first "n" pays the state, and the others pay for it themselves. In the second year, who enrolls in the second year, it is measurable how many points he won and what average score he has in the first year. The first "n" as much as the state pays or as 120% is said, that's 20% more than in the first year, if they qualify, the state pays them, and the rest of them who didn't qualify, no matter what category they were in, pay themselves. In the third year, the third year, the result of the first two years is measured in the fourth first three years and so on. In other words, someone can spend one year on the budget, a second year paying alone or vice versa, a third year changing its status again, depending, exclusively, only on the results they make as a student. That's undoubtedly something very favourable. As for the change that continues to prolong this with 48 points, let's say that we are tormented to accept it this time, but I also warn the minister and this government, and I will warn all future governments, this should not be difficult to end. I'll tell you that this isn't actually a student discount, this is a teacher's failure. It's the teachers who are responsible, given how they teach, how they hold exams, how they hold colloquiumes and all that work during the year, and for this result, believe me, are primarily guilty professors. That's my deep confidence. I'm not a big fan of the Bologna, nor do I swear on it, but 20 years ago, I've been conducting a procedure that's now predicted by the Bologna Declaration. So points are being collected over the year, so the results of the exams are added to that, etc. It requires a great work and a great effort from the professor. Our teachers, unfortunately, are badly paid, but they can never be as underpaid as they won't do anything. Now I'm going to start criticizing the law in some parts of it, I can't criticizing something concrete right now, but I feel like we're still holding the law, like that head in the sand, when it comes to relationships with different, especially private colleges. To be clear, I don't mind private colleges, far from that, but it's quite clear there's a "grandmother and frog" on the one hand. On the other hand, it is quite clear that big money is in play and that the issue of accreditation is not a naive story. This law, the minister said, we've now simplified it and it's all right, but we didn't get into trouble until the end. The problem, for example, is that you have a private college where 148 doctoral dissertations have been defended for the last two years. That's what we'll have to do eventually. Of course, there's also that story -- come on, it's going to be five, ten, 15 years, so the people will finally realize that there's no such thing as a degree if there's no knowledge behind it, etc. It stands, but in the meantime it passes. I don't think it's normal for more than a few doctoral dissertations to be defended annually in some serious college. If we're the most genius in the world, 148 is a little bit much, will you admit it?- I'm sorry. There's something wrong. This problem is not open to these amendments and the amendments to the law, at least it's not open until the end, and I assure you that we will have to open it eventually. The second thing is, there are two members in the law who, I say, are political. Although the law shouldn't be political, and I said generally it's not political law, but there are two members who are political. One refers to the transfer of powers to the AP Vojvodina, where, in addition to the powers that have been provided for in the current law, competences are increased beyond any measure. You know, you might think it's all the same, but I don't think high education in Nis has to be different from higher education in New Sad. You might think it doesn't cause any problems at this point. Maybe it doesn't. The same kind of government is in the state of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, but tomorrow it doesn't have to be. Then I ask you - what will some future minister of education do if his opposing government in the AP starts to run its policy on some important issues related to, in this case, higher education, but also about education? I don't think he should be so careless around here. By the way, the only member we've proposed to delete is Article 24. Secondly, it's okay, it's proposed to increase members of the National Educational Council from 16 to 21. What we don't like is that a third of that council is made up of the members proposed by the Government. That's not good, not because of this government, I don't think the number proposed by the government can go past a quarter and we've given one amendment to make the number 19, with the government proposing five. We have no objection to an increase in the number given by the University Conference, although we have put in one position, I will now tell you something, and colleagues in the Education Committee know that, we asked CONUS to deliver more candidates than is elected, though, it is not written in the current law, it does not say in these amendments, the DSS has an amendment in this regard – I think it is necessary that the candidates propose more candidates than they choose. Otherwise, there's no reason for the Assembly to choose. If the Assembly chooses, it should choose between something, and if it is just a list, then the Assembly does not have to choose, or, worse still, and what will certainly happen, the Assembly will not choose all proposed candidates, we will not have a formed National Educational Council, or this story will be promoted further and it certainly is not good. Finally, I abstained from voting on the Education Committee, and at this point, it is the DSS' position. We've submitted, not much, 18 amendments. These amendments, we think, are very important, extremely well-intentioned and, in our opinion, correct the text of the law. Depending on how the government, or the Ministry, or the ruling majority, has an attitude towards these amendments, they will also define us when voting for this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41344	Thank you. National MP Jovan Nesovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41345	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is before us today to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education. The law now applied in the area of higher education was passed in 2005 and it was the beginning of a Bologna process in our country. It should, in fact, be the basis for creating a European area of education. It seems to me that at the beginning, it is very good to repeat what was the objectives of the law, what it was meant to establish in Serbia's higher education system. The first thing to be established is to increase the efficiency of the system of higher education, introduce a three-stage system of studies, introduce standards and process of evaluation of higher education institutions and study programmes that take place at these higher education institutions, include students as a partner in the process of higher education and mobility of teachers and students. Today we can talk about how far these five years in these reforms have gone, but we need to be aware that we are not a society that is rich, that we have also been caught by the economic crisis, not wanting to justify, we have done some of the shifts and major steps in the higher education system in the last five years. Many things have not been done and it is clear that in the coming period we have to do a lot to bring the higher education system to the level we want. I'm talking about higher education reforms, frankly, it's the work of the whole society. To be honest, I am not sure that even in this area, although it seems to me that we are all going to have a political consensus and, unfortunately, today in Serbia, it is perfectly normal. I think it's important to say that the amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education are, in fact, changes that are related to those things that have been observed in the functioning of that old law. Some things are not well defined or cause certain problems in operation, and therefore the effectiveness of this law cannot be at the level we wanted. What is important is that the changes can be classified in several areas, which is: the part relating to the admission of students, the part relating to the alignment and improvement in the titles acquired under the old and new law, giving consent to the ministry, seems to me, a very important thing, to the level of tuition, and to the resolution of certain issues related to the accreditation of higher education institutions. It seems to me that the amendments and additions to this law have been very much in line with those requirements that came from student organizations. It will be good to amend and supplement the Law now, because before the start of the school year it is necessary to have rules of play, that students know what conditions they expect in enrolment next year, that they know the degree they will have at the end of their schooling and when they seek a job that employers can discuss so that they can apply for a job, work for which they are trained. I think that these amendments and additions to the law should condition that we do not have that pressure that happens at the end of September, in early October, that students, by seeking their rights, do not speak objectively or subjectively, go to the streets, jam traffic and that sometimes we have problems in the functioning of society. As far as the first part of the amendment is concerned, these are changes relating to the National Council. The promoter seems to me, because of the representativeness and importance of the National Council and its expertise it must carry out, has increased the number of members of the National Council from 16 to 21. We can discuss whether that number is optimal, but what matters is that there is complete independence of the university. The University Conference gives 12 members of the Council, therefore, the majority of 21 are 12 people given by the University Conference, and seven members are given by the Government and two members are proposing a Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies. It is also important that of those seven members proposed by the government one should be from Kosovo's territory, or Pristina-based University of Kosovo Mitrovica, one is proposed by the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina. It seems to me that it is good to work on certain issues, even the right to make decisions, have students, have two representatives through the Student Conference to participate in certain decisions taken by the National Council, and are related to accreditation of student programmes, accreditation of institutions and for quality, quality checks on the quality of work of higher education institutions. It is good that the Ministry in this law explicitly defined that it would finance the University Conference, as well as the Academy of Professional Studies Conference and the Student Conference. It seems to me that it will be, about, on an annual level, about seven or more million dinars. It is clear that the holding of these conferences, the cost of holding conferences, the costs of attending delegates must be borne by someone. For quality to be good, it's a good thing the Ministry took over. The ministry, I am absolutely sure, objectively, will bear these costs, which will improve the quality of the work of these organisations, which are ultimately established by the institution. The second part refers to changes related to the accreditation of higher education institutions and study programmes. It is clear and remains clear that the higher education institution teaches to the Ministry, the Ministry is reviewing documentation related to the quality and scope of the study programme, the needs of teachers with appropriate knowledge, whether the higher education institution has the right space, infrastructure, for quality implementation of the study programme. It is good that the ministry has introduced that those institutions whose founder is not a state must provide a bank guarantee in the event of the institution's termination so that the generation can be implemented, so that it is not all at the expense of the state. It is prescribed to be 10% of the tuition value for the total number of students enrolled in the study programme. The D.A.'s just checking out the paperwork he's giving the commission to look at her. If it's okay – it meets certain conditions, it's got this initial accreditation, and it's good that it's defined to happen in three months, and then, after that, for up to a year, it's a detailed check that those data that were provided in the documentation submitted for initial accreditation are accurate on the ground and then you get accreditation. What's also good is that after five years you have a mandatory check on whether the situation on the ground remains the same, even emergency checks can be made, and if the Ministry estimates that some things are not good at the work of that higher school institution. It is also given that if the conditions are not met at the beginning, the ministry gives a 30-day deadline for things to be fulfilled and to try again to obtain initial accreditation. It's a good solution, since it's one process, in the process there are always possible mistakes, that if the party considers that some things have not been done well, it has the right to lead an administrative dispute. I think that solves one thing that is in line with the positive legal rules that are related to procedural issues. It is good that they have been introduced, I think, more stringent criteria for teaching staff, or teachers who have to be in constant relationship for higher education institutions as well as for higher schools of vocational studies. It's a very good solution to the question, too, to avoid some of the things we've had in the past, which is the amount of tuition, especially code, I think, at this point, of the state college. Because, it's quite clear, the same story is repeated again that when the end of September or the beginning of October of the month, then some colleges, to say related colleges, have very different rates of those tuitions and then it's completely justified to press the student public towards the ministry, because everyone expects that the state that has to solve this problem is, in particular, expressed in times of crisis. We know that citizens live hard, too. Then there had to be some solution, even in this time, that would prevent these things from happening so far. The law explicitly states that prior to the opening of the competition for the enrolment of new students for the school year and to give the study programme must be given the consent of the Ministry at the level of the tuition provided for there and I believe that this is a very good solution. What we can also talk about is whether the happiest solution in this law is, I think that's where the student request came out, that we have six deadlines in the year. Personally, I think it might be a little bit much, but let's see what it looks like and see if that's the best solution. But it seems to me that it's too much and it seems to me that it gives me the opportunity for students to devote less to the ongoing work and that it can also produce counterproducts. But I'm saying again, let's look at this thing and analyze it when the whole thing is over and when the full analysis is made. It is a good thing, after all, that students with 48 ESPB points will be enrolled in the next school year and the next school year. It is good to extend because of this economic crisis, i.e. because of the equality of the positions of all people studying that students who enrolled in 2006, 2007 and 2008 can continue studying for another year longer, i.e. students who entered 2008, 2009 and 2010 respectively, so that they can extend their study on the cost of the state. It seems to me that it's a very important thing, and that's what the minister said, that it's also being introduced in competition students. This means that those who are better should be financed by the state. In the end, let me say, student years, there's going to be a single ranking list. The single ranking list also includes students who were on the budget and self-financed, up to the quota paid by the ministry. Those who are better will be on the budget, and those who were once on the budget will be self-financed students. It is imperative for those people who want to study and devote themselves to higher school, to have better results, and to reward them, on the one hand, in the coming period. I think it's something that's very good. It's something that, in my opinion, really is a good step of the ministry, after all, it's destimulating, that if you're originally enrolled in the budget, you're staying all the time, and that the one who's self-financed is simply enough to have sixes and that's how you retire, he knows it's going to be self-financed. And like this, he's given the opportunity to do more work to make it worth the while, which I think is imperative at this point. It is also a useful solution for those who started master studies to finish them by 2013 and 2014 respectively, and for those who started doctoral studies to finish them by 2015 and 2016 respectively. It'll give people who started doing something and didn't do it, let's say because of the conditions they're working on, because of everything that's going on in society, that they're given another option. Normally, neither state nor higher education will lose anything, it'll just get, at least, to quality, but those individuals will get. The coordination of academic and professional knowledge with these changes was better done than it was in the previous law. The issue remains open whether there is a better solution, but, behold, the Education Committee is there, so in one useful discussion, I suppose, and the minister said that it would be very open to find the best possible solution that no one would get damaged, if possible, that no one would get damaged. The best solution is when everyone's a little unsatisfactory, so there's a solution. What I mean at the end, by adopting these amendments and by supplementing the law, is that certain problems that exist now will be solved, that will help, I'm sure, and students in some of the problems they've had, as well as employees in colleges. How much more effective the higher education system will be. Normally, when all this is over, and that means in two years, when a full analysis is in place, where we are, what we are, then some new law will be introduced into which some new norms and some new rules of conduct will be incorporated. I am absolutely sure that it will then be much better for the higher education system in Serbia. The G17 plus, as a parliamentary group, will support these amendments and additions to the law in the voting day. He invites other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41346	Thank you. I give my word to Professor Milety Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41347	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to make a procedural complaint, too. It's the time of the bill's arrival at Parliament clubs and very little time, hour, theoretical time from the time when the session is scheduled until the time when the Committee's session is scheduled. We couldn't study the bill thoroughly, on the one hand. On the other hand, of course, the Committee cannot do what, if you have objections to the law, but simply, you can prepare the minister to have a more rational relationship with the amendments that we are trying to change which, in our political opinion, is not in the law well, because we have already, by the definition of that, already started to correct the law. This is a bill to amend the already existing law. This signals in general, at least two basic things: sure that something in this law is not good, as soon as we change it, it is certain that the initial euphoria about us entering the process of Bologna unification of criteria and European integration space, as it is now called, is partly from the subconscious of those who create this slogan, that in that central part of Europe, in capitalist and rich Europe, which also has private powerful, and strong state universities (it was done in Europe). Already, students and teachers are very concerned about where this kind of broadly imagined process is going, who knows how and where it's being handled, and who knows, when you look at the signatories of those, these are the signatories of the Bologna Declaration, all of whom certainly don't train their children under the "Bolonian Program", but at powerful private universities where the mention of the university door itself opens. The question of a rational relationship is not absolutely forbidden. It's supposed to be a critical relationship. I think it's justified what the minister started, in that direction, as well as the Ministry. It also opens other aspects and stories, that we have seen the abnormality and poor functioning of the law. Of course, we are left with the opposition, who at the time were saying that such a law, such solutions were not good, that we had a satisfaction. And speaking of these changes, I'm going to look back on three aspects. One is what direct subscribers get. These are, first of all, students, society in general and students. The second is what those who are involved in it have in a very direct way. They're teachers, lecturers, teaching staff. Third, the role of the State, or Ministry. The general benefit of this will have students. It opens the view from two sides of the cross. We have indeed made previous changes to devalue the law recommended that with 60 points it must go in the following year. Then we saw that faced with reality we had to go for less. The first one was, I think, 37 or whatever it was, so 42 etc. Now we've left it at 48 and not following the principle of 54. There are no students in Serbia who will not welcome it and there is no political party that will oppose it. It's something that indirectly tells us that we MPs, indirectly, more people who have been exposed to the law in most cases, to be taken into their senses and to see that such a fundamental change on such a serious plan as the educational system cannot, without even a virtual check, as I was then speaking to Minister Vuksanovic, and trying to see what it looks like in practice, to automatically cut it off as a knife and apply it, started in 2005 at 2006, we now see that we don't have any masters on that basis, finished masters. Another necessary solution and help for those who are indirectly involved, lecturers, is to come up with their scientific knowledge in the so-called old system, because master and doctoral study enrollment is different from what those in the master's studies have. On the other hand, the difference between what it used to mean to master and how much to prepare for scientific research, how much it is now in the master system in a certain way devalued. It's gonna be a pro et counter story on this subject. They'll say, "Well, why in your segment, which I'm going to talk about mostly, which is medicine, you think it would be different, it would be worse, when it really is." I've spent a lot of time catching up with different curricula sites in Serbia, and I've seen many of them offer as optional objects, university items, such as, theoretically, to be studied in the context of master's research through earlier master's education, according to an old programme. He's trying, the colleges themselves have become aware that they can't educate special integrated studies with a certain profile that will bear the weight of final specialization. It's just unthinkable that when the master's finished, the doctor will become a master. In the old system, he was able to be either a narrow specialist profession, now it would be a medical student who had completed a program that had completed other students before that in six years. He can slowly wander through electoral items and find something that might direct him. However, how long they last, how little their fund is, and how unacquainted they are, I will speak of it in particular, as part of the guilt and the Ministry, the Conference of the University and the part of the guilt of the concept, which he did to us, in order to really take down three websites, three colleges, I am not Belgrade, and when you look at the curricula and the program per year of study, you will see on many, plus a minus. It's hard to talk about academic mobility, internal academic mobility, and it's illusory to talk like that. Because criteria, teaching content, although 60 points have been made, and not 60 points are something that the opposition resents the law, is not at all a problem for you to quantify the years of study, which are worth, universally all by 60, and it is not a problem for it to go along with the assessment as a closer descriptive description of the student's value. There's no problem with that, and no one would say it's an "Bolonian" contribution. "Bologna" has very declaratively given our principles, which are already in Article 1, I don't know why, we give up. They are saying, that we national assumptions, national achievements should be respected, that the Bologna Declaration, I don't know, virtual commissions, which already exist in the world and in Europe, will have their own representatives there, and that they won't mind if we do something on the national agenda, of national interest, if we respect our culture and our tradition, and the amendment of this member, I don't know, whether, in every European integration of academic space, it means something or not. I touched the amendment, I don't think I'm talking about them, there's gonna be a special story about them. I'm still talking about the students, what they got except for this one, maybe I'll talk more about the curricula. They have already received, now someone has calculated the obligation of one point, and this is the President of the Commission, 40 hours of learning a week, etc. 20 hours school, 20 hours college. Do you know what it looks like in practice, where "Bolonia" isn't good? Many colleges have been granted licences by being spatially disabled so that they cannot receive students, the number of students in teaching has been reduced. In the time of parallelism, the old and new program, the teacher, concerning the other interested parties, has to give the same lecture three times according to the same teaching content: 'Bolonjacs' in two shifts in order to be less for those who are in the phase to finish schooling in the old system for the third time. So one necessarily double the load, triple the load for the lecturer. Not to mention the motivation he has for the same miserable and no pay, no matter what the Ministry gives money for wages, but you can check it yourself, especially in some colleges where total incomes are such that they buy the most expensive car at the fair. It's all public, we all teach tax returns, it's easy to verify, how much for that triple, though, temporary triple, business. But since the rooms won't be able to grow, and the strategies won't tell us – they don't need medicine in Kragujevac 200 students a year or 180 but only 80 students, and then they'll be hitting on students' right to study etc., so family problems, a million problems will arise, but by then we'll be doing the same job in two shifts. What's the problem for students? To work in small groups as Bologna requires, we have to provide such a time for children to have twice during the day, deployed, sometimes at night, listen to lectures and their pre-examinational obligations, which is completely non-physiological. Who could imagine at a time when we, who are now fighting "for" and "against" this concept, were learning and studying to get someone up after two hours if we weren't in the student cafeteria, studying? It wasn't imaginary. It wasn't physiologically possible, it was impossible. Now at 10 o'clock you're finishing some student exercises, because otherwise you can't. You want to comply with the standards that someone has prescribed for you. I don't know who asked us to. If we want such a small number, then we go to a mentoring system, change of education, and we're going to have fewer students, but accreditations have fallen, and that's the problem in many universities and many universities. Maybe not so much in private, they always have space, but in state colleges there's a significant problem. It takes so long for these kids to work and eventually take different seminars, tests and colloquiums that don't release them, and thank God they don't release them from the obligation to go to the oral exam, because it actually reveals how many they are or haven't mastered the material. Teachers, other interested parties, are under the obligation to present their questions, their lectures on the site. What do you think when a student reads from a lecture site written by a professor? How intellectual is this right, which in electronic communication has gone and how far? Will our lectures now read someone from another university and say – this one is not competent? Can the concept that I wear as my synopsis for a lecture please someone who tells the same story in Nis and Novi Sad? Imagine once you start digging for it? Who made us have to put lectures on the site? Is that what the college executives did? Did they enter into their internal act the right to do so with us and hang it up, to teach students, to ask them all questions on the site? Well, what did we want with Bologna? Let's say - Mrs. Turajlic, you were right, here, see how well students are going now? It's not a solution. We're going to, what the Committee Minister said, in the other direction, in the other direction. Too fast and easy to pass will bear a lower quality, a lower content of what children have. Speaking of which, it's that interested party, both students and teachers, students are easier, students will tell – that's what you said, it says. What did you say? He can have a tape recorder, so he can record you. Otherwise, what it says on the site most often cannot be about what a person says during so - called interactive teaching. Many innovations have been introduced, to simply say that internal medicine will listen instead of a year and a half, a year, and the exact same illness as 100 years ago learn, of course, with new knowledge. Of course, they're called the same thing, they existed 10 or 15 years ago. You teach them in a shorter period of time. You make these kids sit, you call them, you waste a lot of time calling. The university did not become a university matter by means of the Bologna Declaration and by taking solutions that were not written there so decadently. He became a high school with a mandatory presence. Of course, a large number of students detest. When you talk about grading students, we must be fully aware that there is no subjectivism. They have no previous experience. They only have experience with what they found, and they heard, when they came from their parents, that it was "The Bologna Program" – you're after it. We who talk about this and criticize it have both, and are rightly inclined to compare both values, both categories. It's not exactly the same, even though you've given the foundation practical lessons for many teaching classes, to do that teaching fund within a third shorter than before. Practically, children do more, but they don't have enough days to get the situation, to reverse pathology, so that children can see and learn more than they would otherwise have if they only did it through experiments in the lab. In the laboratory, you can repeat a chemical reaction forever until everyone sees it. In biological sciences, in medicine, you can't order a disease that a student can only see it for one semester, if he's had a chance a year and a half before, three semesters to watch it. That's all the reasons why students aren't too excited about this. That's why you were in a position not to be able to lay down, that the criteria were sharpened. Colleges now have the freedom, the right, by an internal act to organise commission exams. They have a huge problem, I'm talking about teaching, it's not supposed to change here, it's not quite right to bring in general acts, because they've already entered their autonomy by putting their paws on scholarships. Just now, the Ministry or the University is checking out the statutes and is considering whether medical sciences will be shortened for the participation of professors, teachers in teaching that will deal with students in two or three shifts, and that, in doing so, they will not enter the operating room. We're gonna lose quality on the other side. Access to this whole story is very risky. What else would I like to say about this other interested party, so the clinicians? One of the proposals for a solution is to extend the right to the professor to go another three years after retirement. What are you going to do for clinicians, when you need the director of the institution to give him the right to do it, the clinical center, because it's a relationship for the professors who work at the clinic, in medical or dental, pharmaceuticals, etc.? That'll be a problem, then. The university would give him consent, but without his teaching base, and that's the hospital, one department, he can't extend. It's a virtual promise that most of the time exists. If there isn't any, then at least the political dissension of the directors and the dean. One gives, the other doesn't give. This may be possible in some cases, in some categories that are not clinically bound, in medical or in other colleges, that this is finally, perhaps, in some ways, implemented. When it comes to student passability, I would like to compare some data that, some on the site and some in the serious media, have appeared, where it is really required that those who create changes, which exercise quality control, ask the question of how it is possible that there is a degree of transit at the Faculty of Technology and metalry, the Architectural 97%, the Electrotechnical 78%, and someone similar to Bor, 17%, 4%, on Veterina 4.8%, at the Faculty of Technology in Bor, 17%, Orthodox-Godoslovan 23%. I don't know how accurate your data is, but that's what it's all about. How's the value of passing? Are the criteria – 37 points, 42 points or 46% of the fourth year, written in information, or has all 60 points been achieved, as the law requires, and then passed? Then it significantly reduces the percentage and doesn't need to show reality more beautiful than it is. As for a certain part of the story of the critics of the students they were putting out and the grudges they have and the facts, it is the impression that they often write petitions, that they are often dissatisfied, dissatisfied with teachers, interrogators. Indeed, if you take the list given by the National Council, the Ministry as a recommendation on how to appreciate internal quality control, then you come up with amazing data, it should evaluate the professor, and when he teaches – his attitude, his tendency to joke, to raise tones, to be interesting, to distract him, simply, looks like American films, so, did he put his hand in his right pocket, sat down on the cathedral or not, or made some witty illusion, anything goes into it, you don't even know how competent someone is and how he's going to hit you. We remember all the lectures where the fly didn't hear. It was so called one-way, it was estimated to be wrong. I learned most of it, and I didn't mind learning. And what's he gonna ask me, like in high school, to ask a student what he thinks about the problem in my clinical district, which I'm talking about, that he's giving up, that we're wasting time, anyway, it's time in tea. Let me guess, well, you told me a good story, 20 minutes was an interactive class. Here, all that stuff you said isn't true. They're doing seminar work now. It's the same obligation on Bologna. The kids take it off the site, from Google, from this, from that, something from the textbook, they show, it's not connected. The kid didn't hear that lecture. It doesn't know what to say, but it has a commitment, it's got 20 points, and it's written there in conviction, they're all happy. You must, in order to get a positive grade, say – thank you, it is a good child, you have done very well, colleagues. In fact, then in a nice way you tell him it's not true, it doesn't stand, it doesn't stand. Someone's got to do a review of that. So, in considering these pre-examination obligations, it went pretty far in detail. Someone calls it modules, someone calls seminars, some clinical problems. It's a galamatias of expression. I'm very often confused, and I'm calling my colleagues who are there, the dean or chief of staff, to explain to me some misunderstandings. The average study lasts for 7.84 years and we are trying to use this amelioration of the criteria to reduce the duration of the study. We're trying to raise the level of college-educated people from, like, 6.7% to something more. We're talking academic mobility, so those kids will leave us if we prepare their diplomas, a contribution with a diploma that will contain everything that's contained. We don't train them with the will to leave us, but with the will to keep us. Then it's no longer a problem for the Ministry of Education to keep them, except in college, and how do you say to the dean you have to see the best students. What, the dean's billing the minister? How can a minister force him to do that? Maybe he should send him some sort of find to see quality checks, extraordinaryly, if he wants to, if they're not political pals, and most often they are, because that's how it becomes both dean and rectors, etc., on the political line, and no, which he would send him. The problem we find here, and as far as each other is concerned, is the accreditation problem you call initial accreditation. Before the time runs out, and there is an amendment about it, we stand at the point that maybe giving permission to work, as it was before, was a solution that was right, with the procedure changing a little bit, to create a binding time for the Ministry to send it to the Commission, and to the Commission to give the Ministry three months, to return the minister, inside, say, a month to issue confidence. Why the initial accreditation, then a year later, some new one? And what can stand in the background behind that? Theoretically, there's a lot to stand for. We in opposition must be suspicious, not because of the Minister and the Ministry themselves, who probably does not bear the reasons for the suppression of any kind, not because of the experience we have, nor the experience in which none of our objections to this law have been respected, and we have come where we have come from. So, to rewrite it, a little in favour of these, a little in favour of those, thank God and limit tuition and self-will. But let's see, why couldn't those who had already won and remained under the old system accredited, why would they wait another year, maybe it's a source of potential blackmail. Everything he does in preparing his opinion, or writing a report, the commission is now writing a report and giving an opinion, or vice versa, anyway, mainly doing the same administration again, reviewing, checking, it will have to be in a year. Then he has the right after that initial accreditation to start receiving students, to realize teaching. And what he didn't give to someone -- he didn't give the floor, he didn't let anyone go to the exam, he didn't receive the professor, he didn't get past the thesis, he pissed off someone powerful, he comes in, nice, the commission says -- now your license for this year won't be renewed. It's been 20 minutes, bring the end, please. ) For these students, I know they have a legal obligation to focus somewhere, but who will accept them when state colleges are otherwise overbooked. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41348	The word has a minister, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41349	Thank you. I would like to say a few words or try to answer some of the questions that have been heard so far in the debate, and of course, I am also at my disposal to answer those questions that will be heard in the course of the debate. I have to say that there was a kind of criticism here, this afternoon, that we were a little, let's say, rushing fast and we gave this bill to the assembly debate. I tried to explain at first why we went with the amendments to the Higher Education Act, and I'm glad he was a professor. Shami noticed the magnitude of these changes. These are the amendments and additions to the 2005 Higher Education Act and amendments and additions to those problems that exist and how to solve them. There is one very important reason why we, I say, have stepped up our work on this law a little, and that is our desire to have the law here in the Assembly of June by your MPs examined and adopted, so that the students know what awaits them, that we do not come into this situation so that the National Assembly discusses this law later, during July or August or September. Then we'd be criticised for, like, changing the law after the test period. By the way, I'm referring to this very consciously, because it happened to us two years ago when we changed the Law on Higher Education, my respected colleagues, I don't know if you remember, we were changing the law at the time to objectively reduce the number of points and create a condition for the children to enroll. We were criticised and there was a gathering of students outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in that building, downstairs, in the lower home, if I may call it that old building. Then it was said that you were changing our law in the middle of the deadline, and that is, if we hadn't changed, we wouldn't have been able to enroll the children, or students who were then. That's one of the most important reasons we've ever done. This is not unknown what we have set up as before one consideration and a proposal for this law. We've been talking about this for two or three years, because there are a lot of open questions and we've been trying to find some answers. I think we've heard, so to speak, the demands of a huge part of the academic community in Serbia, not everyone, but a huge piece. I don't know, dear colleagues, have you noticed, we haven't entered the structure of the program, we haven't mentioned, we haven't mentioned, for example, some proposals by the working group, such as short programs, changes in structures, master studies, higher schools of vocational studies, National Educational Council, increasing the number of members of the accreditation committee, extraordinary students. There's a lot of questions that are open. We are in one situation so that some questions, to be honest, would fully open up questions that we have already opted for. Why? Because some standards have already been made. Because some actions are already under way. Because certain bodies work. I'm saying this, I don't know if you know, the college accreditation process has been going on for several years and it's already been accredited over 2,000 programs. And the question, for example, is the introduction of extraordinary students, to regulate it within standards that already exist regarding the number of students. Would that mean the professor's burden? In which way we would resolve this issue administratively, some questions are raised again, and we are just on track to finally determine who is teaching us in high education and how competent these teachers are. I'm saying this because right now in the accreditation process we have to have 70% of teachers in a permanent working relationship in every higher school institution and these are people with different titles. Now, on the basis of the recommendations of the National Council for Higher Education, honourable fellow MPs, you know exactly what is the scientific competence of each teacher, starting from an extraordinary professor to a regular teacher, what he published, whether and in which magazine, how many monographs and textbooks he published. So some questions would open up other questions. We've come to the conclusion that it's better at this point to resolve issues that are open issues, and then enter a process that should last another two years. If we have accepted the view that students still have 48 points as a condition of enrollment, but I note 48 points during the school year, so as not to misread the summation of points. Here's the point of permanent learning 48 points over the year, and then we've accepted that we reset the system for two more years and be honest and evaluate and see what's wrong. Why am I saying this? The 2005 law is a good law, but it suffers from certain shortcomings, we try to solve these shortcomings with changes and additions. I'm not saying it's ideal. That's what I'm saying about all the colleges and all the universities. The law declared the equality of all higher education institutions, both private and state. I remind you, as according to the Constitution, the equality of the form of property, the National Council for Higher Education through standards and the Commission for Accreditation through specific conditions, all or most accredited and how they were accredited, all of them had to meet certain conditions, and the one who failed to meet the conditions did not get a positive opinion in the previous procedure or got a negative opinion. We have now introduced initial accreditation to solve that hole that existed. Why? Because in the previous procedure, we had the Commission's position to give a positive opinion for registration in a commercial court. Believe it or not. The law doesn't know, let me say, such a solution. There was a situation that some people, institutions, had already submitted a request, had submitted a request for accreditation, and that stood for a while. Why? Because no deadline has been set within which the commission must be declared. We just wanted to establish here a clear procedure for both state and private higher education institutions related to the accreditation process. No one questioned the autonomy of the Commission in determining these views, but it is true that there were some empty walks. Then it happened that I, as a minister, inherited nine positive opinions, so my previous colleague signed three work permits, I signed two more, and then I asked a question by the commission -- you know, but he was wrong, the person x-ipislon had already announced that he had been accredited. No, he's been given permission to work, and the subject of accreditation will be the moment when the accreditation committee starts to carry out. Why? Because this previous procedure is different from that of the latter. In the previous procedure, it is this temporary accreditation, it should also show a bank guarantee (whether in this proposed proposal or already) that the Assembly will decide, as proof of the guarantee to protect students who are enrolled in a private higher education institution. It should provide evidence that 70% of teachers will have a permanent working relationship related to active teaching. He needs to provide other evidence that your programs, to say, have documentation. The Commission will assess the value of this documentation, other things related to the accreditation process. Dear colleagues, those who deal with higher education know that accreditation has many conditions and many criteria to meet, and exactly after accreditation, what happened to doctoral dissertation happened to us. Why? Because it was a completely unsettled area. Whether the National Council had the authority to do the area or not, whether or not the Ministry could react, it can be discussed. But right now, we have also proposed a solution to bring the Doctoral Study Regulation into the higher education facility, but in the prepared opinion of the Ministry of Education and Scientific Research Action, to make it very uniform, if necessary, to be honest, criteria, so that there is no hyperproduction of doctoral dissertations. Over two thousand programs have been accredited. It is known now how many professors, or teachers, in which they are called, what their scientific competence is, what the degree of their burden is, can anyone cross the green line and enter the red field, that there is more formal burden than they can do, so that's all there is to do. It is fair to give answers to some questions, that is, when this cycle is over, to say what we have done and what we should do to be better. There's a lot of talk on your part, dear colleagues, actually by all present today, about "Bolonja," about applying, about students. Personally, I think that if students look at the amendments to this law as just an opportunity with a larger number of deadlines, they can pass the exam easier without taking care of the quality, it's Pierre's victory. Here the point is to create the possibility that they can master the subject in a good way and show knowledge. Dear colleagues, we, throughout the accreditation process, or the work of higher education institutions, have a situation of normative and real, that colleges themselves are completely, autonomously, and teachers decide what their job is and no one forces them on the side, especially from Europe, to do something they do not want to do. They independently decide which programme is accredited, write the textbooks on their own, perform the course on their own, create issues for the colloquium or other means of checking knowledge, carry out the final exam on their own, give the evaluations on their own. But you have some professors who don't want to change or can't. We need to find an answer whether one or the other. But life changes us. This isn't what happened yesterday, the day before yesterday, let alone 15 or 20 years ago. Now some of the colleagues say the system was better. Yeah, but I think he was better once, too, but there are those who thought the system was wrong, so they changed him. Now it turns out it wasn't as bad as it was before. However, the system generally goes in another direction in the world and we have to objectively adapt to it so that our children do not formally lag behind others. Knowledge must be shown. I also told the students, since I was often their guest, that there are among the students of those who think that "Bolonja" means to enroll in college and get a degree. No, it has to be learned. It is right that those colleagues who mentioned today that this new way of mastering the program implies the permanent teaching of students, from the first to the last day of semester or teaching, that they should be active, participate in the whole process and that the time has passed when several hundred students were in the amphitheatre, and in general, the lecture comes whoever wants, the professor and doesn't know the students he works with, in one day he doesn't come out, he doesn't know students or knows, it's very relative. It is now objective because of criteria that already exist a completely different way of teaching and quality checks. Here, simply, we must meet both our situation and Serbia's needs. Someone mentioned, it seems to me, that we have a state interest in increasing the number of highly educated people. But, dear fellow MPs, at this point according to the list of eight years ago, in 2002, we have 6.8% of people with higher education. In the countries of Europe, it is 20% and more. One logical question arises – how do you increase the number of higher educations? Either we're going to get everyone who graduates from high school to college, but then there are no standards that we're applying now, or everyone who goes to college is going to graduate, but then there's no talking about quality, or the state plus privates, we're going to open up some new colleges, and I'm counting on each other, so we're also predicting the possibility that the state will establish higher education institutions, that there's not once a number of state colleges and a final number. Of course, we also have lifelong learning, which is what we think we can solve in the Law on adult education, and I am counting on it to be the subject of a autumn discussion of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There's a thing simple. If that is not the case, then the question is asked, how are we going to do it? Some other countries in the environment are already slowly overcoming us with the number of people with higher education. Wait, what do they have, and we don't have the other way around, why can't we use the potentials that we have and the positive experiences of others? No one's stopping us. Therefore, we should not run away from that strategic goal, but not at the cost of quality. Today I am several times – quality, quality, quality! It's got to be our idea of a leader in higher education because he's kind of running away from it. One of my colleagues mentioned the results of his research. You know, you have different colleges, both state and private, where the percentage of those who end up in the school year is 80-90% and how high you are, but you also have those colleges where there's a very small percentage of students who score enough points or pass the appropriate number of exams. Then the question must be asked – and why is that? In the end, another question or at least another comment for tonight. I think there is really no reason to worry that by increasing the number of its members in the National Council for Higher Education from four to seven, the state will question the integrity of higher education or exert some pressure or exert some decisive influence. Well, twelve representatives of the KONUS election are two representatives from high school vocational studies. It is 14 representatives from higher education, that is, the order of professors. There are seven so-called representatives of the state. You'll see, it'll be professors from the institute or college anyway. So there won't be anyone here who's not tied to higher education. There will be no and there will be no concern that in any way it can be questioned by the autonomy of higher education to decide on issues independently. Excuse me, the state also has its own interest in having through its representatives and how it affects the events in higher education and to know what's going on in higher education. If you want, and make along with others and participate in a higher education strategy. There is something else that is not mentioned, which I would like to point out – two things. We, in the proposal for this law, respected colleagues, have increased the administrative authority of the ministry. Believe me, with a piece relating to criminal policy, in terms of harmonising the functioning of this law with the provisions of the Law on Violations, the amount of fines, related to the violation of the provisions of this law, it will do so with these powers that are provided for here, which, to say "by the way" the entire academic community supports, because it wants a more determined decision of the state, or the Ministry to just solve some of the issues raised in higher education, many things will be clearer. Well, then only those colleges that have accreditation will really work, and then only those departments that have the accreditation, that is, the permission to work, and then the doctoral dissertation will be able to issue only those colleges that have normally arranged it, and where the ministry's consent exists, so we'll solve a number of open issues. But we must be prepared to give answers to those questions that already exist, which the practice has opened. I think we're on to something. I'm not saying that this amendment and supplementation of the law is over. That's why I said that I was expecting amendments from fellow Members of Parliament, because something we saw the previous day, it seems to me that my colleague, Žutić, at the beginning, said, about the goals of higher education, otherwise I agree with that attitude that he has made and that I will accept as an amendment, that there will be opportunities and other amendments in the debate to adopt and improve the law. Because we recognize together that some things aren't what they look like on paper, or that practice is a little different. And we are also interested in this government and this ministry to make the law as good as possible and to find the acceptance of as many people in higher education as possible, but not to forget the basic – raising the quality and the need for children to learn, i.e. students have adequate skills that they can use tomorrow when they finish their colleges to hire, and the state to create employment, which is, already, the task of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-09-0.u41350	Thank you, Mr. Minister. No SRS representative Goran Mihajlovic spoke from representatives of the parliamentary groups reported. I suggest that it be tomorrow. I would also like to inform you that Mr Petar Jojic has issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee. He asked, because he was justifiably out of the O.R. at a time when the MPs had the opportunity to explain that opinion, that it would be the same tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Thank you for your cooperation. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Mr. Todorovic has a word.
