ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44417	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, my address from this post after this, practically, two-month break will be in the direction of reminding the public again in Serbia, and especially the people of the Kings, for everything that happened in the King's summer period when it comes to local government. From this place, I have repeatedly pointed out the very controversial things that happened during the fourth change of government in two and a half years. In fact, the essence of the problem was when the government, in its conclusion, practically made a majority in the Kingdom, a conclusion that is completely inappropriate, and to this day I did not get an adequate answer, although I repeatedly asked that question. Of course, that conclusion of the government is such that even today, the current opposition in the Kingdom, and also New Serbia, has never received the government's conclusion, and hence, above all... (President: Gentlemen of the Parliaments, please just listen to the messenger.) )......................................................................................................... the inability to respond to such a conclusion by the Government of New Serbia and other opposition parties in the Kingdom by means of legal means and the inability to invest any legal remedy because such a document has never been obtained, that is, that conclusion of the Government. Of course, things followed the fact that the MUP had practically made such a conclusion at the first sessions when the government changed again it provided SO Kraljevo days and it was a very ugly picture, a very ugly atmosphere, a very bad message like the King, and Serbia sent to the world. It was followed by two months of peaceful protests that the Serbian public was very little informed about, as it certainly was not in favour of the current government. The protests ended with one single goal, as all opposition parties in the King, believing in the judiciary, believing in the judicial authorities and the state, filed a series of lawsuits. I must point out this opportunity that no individual lawsuit by the board members who have been replaced has been answered. We don't have a single verdict day and day, because administrative courts practically in each individual case are constantly looking for a supplement of the documents and we absolutely believe that their desire is to have practical fun these years and a half with that supplement of documentation and maybe judge this thing at the exact moment when the new elections are called. It's not judicial reform, it's not something we all probably stand for here, especially the current government when it tells us for days about how a very well-implemented judicial reform is, and we see that yesterday we had a practical strike in the administration, that these people who are on the verge of existence should do something and it's very difficult, you know, when someone receives 16, 17 or 18 thousand dinars of pay, and the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is raising his salary from about 270 or 280 thousand to 400,000 dinars. It is very difficult to explain to people in Serbia's administration in the judiciary that there is no money for these people. Of course, in addition to that, we see, and today that the president of the municipal, or primary court in the King has practically paid himself something, apparently did not go on vacation. It became a practice in the King. That's what the current mayor of the King did. We find that totally inappropriate and we don't know what the legal basis is for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44418	It's been five minutes. Mr. Boris Aleksic signed up, but first Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44419	The Honorable President, our colleague Ivan Andric, the other MPs, and the public, have informed us that there is no, that is, to his question whether there is a contract and what kind of contract between RTS and the Assembly, you said there is no contract. That's why I have a few questions about that. If there's no contract, why is Mr. CEO of RTS looking for three million and three hundred thousand? You said that experts would examine whether this is the sum etc., but before that is the question – what in 2006? Why, if there's no contract, why since 2006? Why not since 1996? And you, in your time, even though it came back, passed on. Or two years ago? There's an impression that RTS basically needs some money, so this is a way to get him out of a rebalance. I ask you colleagues and colleagues do you know and do any of us know what the financial business of that house is six years ago since Mr. Tijanic led it? Is there any gain or loss? What are your losses? You know, the final accounts of that public service are impossible to reach. I know we didn't choose the board of directors, but we chose the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, she chose it. I'm asking them if they could tell us how this house works, whether it's profit or loss. That's the first question. Also, the second question is whether, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic told you in the interview what he took from you on January 1, 2006, if there is no contract, which he did not take some date before or some date after, or is that just the amount he needs? Third, what are the earnings of the RTS Management Board, which he chose some time ago for the second time, or for the third time a gentleman? How much does Slava Djukić, Milica Kuburovic, Bosko Mijatovic, who have been elected by Mr Tijanic. Fourthly, will the Republic Auditory Institution enter RTS if we can't get the final accounts yet? Fifthly, if any sporting event is of national importance and should be seen by Serbian citizens, they can see it on any of the five national commercial televisions. If any commercial television for the Champions League or Formula offers some money, and money is measured in hundreds of thousands of euros, let's say 600,000 euros, and RTS buys it for 800,000 euros, whose money is that? Is it satisfied with the citizens' interest to see? Whether it's citizens' interest just to see it on RTS or they can see it on any television, and it doesn't cost them, because when RTS pays for the commercial programme, it costs Serbian citizens. If the congregation transfer costs this much, how much are the commercial programs on that TV? How many times more? Let's say, that show that's being watched, what's called "Bama Burns, and the village is combing" or something, is it in the Law on Radio Television of Serbia, or in the Public Service, where it says it should be the most watched television? What do citizens pay the subscription for? These are all the questions we have to open here before he gets the money from the budget -- is that as much as he spends on commercial programs, is that an RTS obligation, how much? The last question for the government of Mr Cvetkovic, or for the minister – how much money, let's take this 1 January 2006, so far so far. The public service received from the technical budget, received from the budget for severance workers, who were two years before retirement, and received a severance fee of 20,000 euros, and then continued to work on the work contract? These are all the questions that stand before us. You can stick your head in the sand. It was not possible before the re-election to open this issue on the committee responsible for culture and information because the president did not want to schedule it. You understand, 300,000 is over 17,000 pensions, if pension is 20,000. These days, students who have met the conditions don't know if they'll be on the budget. That's 3,500 tuition, and here we're flirting with millions of euros -- give it to me, I need it after I've ruined the house.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44420	We'll forward some of your questions to the Public Service and the Government. Part of the question that concerns me is about the fact that it has been from 2006 to today about 3,000 hours of transmission, that we are obliged to keep the public working in the way we work and that we do not have any contractual obligations towards RTS. Of course, and that we have any obligations, it is clear that we have no means at all, because we are not able at all as a congregation to talk in this way. I think the bottom line is there's really no formal legal obligation. Of course, the government is in a certain relationship with the Public Service and part of the answer that you're going to get and you're going to clarify what the relationships are. National MP Boris Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am asking the government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent state authorities, what have they done to protect the most fundamental human rights of the detained Serbs in The Hague tribunal's detention unit? In order to explain to you what the UN tribunal is, I will tell you briefly – 16 Serbs died in The Hague tribunal or the consequences of being released from the Tribunal in The Hague. The case of Milan Kovacevic, the hospital manager in Prijedor, experienced multiple strokes and heart attacks during the arrest and deportation in The Hague, and the authorities received complete documentation. That wasn't enough for him to be taken care of. According to Duško Tadic, who was also detained in The Hague tribunal, listen well to this, he had a cell next to Kovacevic, "the night before he died, the director of the Predor hospital had been in pain for hours, I went from wall to cell wall, going to bed trying to sleep, but it didn't work," Tadic says. "The cry was growing stronger and more painful. Then I pressed the alarm button in every cell, no one responded. I pressed again and again nothing, just turned off the control light that was on by then. I was sure the other prisoners on the first floor reacted as well as I did. That is why after a short time, we were excluded," Tadic says. Under similar circumstances, he died or was killed by Slobodan Milosevic, due to inadequate treatment. They gave him medications that undo each other's facts. For the same reason, Slavko Dokmanovic also died, followed by Milan Babic, who, because of the pressures that were put on him, committed suicide. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, experts from Serbia have, as early as 16 October 2009, very precisely following the examination of Dr Vojislav Seselj, found that there is a possibility of arrhythmia and that there is a possibility of immediate death unless adequately treated. The report was signed by Dr Zdravko Mijailovic with VMA, who was appointed by the tribunal's Secretariat in The Hague, therefore, by their choice. He made a report on 61 pages. Prison doctors didn't do anything. They treated Vojislav Seselj as well as he had experienced intense arrhythmias in 2010. On September 17th, he was taken to the so-called so-called Electro-conversion. Electro-conversion is a method when electroshocks are given to the patient to return his heart to normal sinus rhythm. Prior to that, Dr Paulus Folke, who also treated Slobodan Milosevic, who is a general practitioner, who treats Vojislav Seselj, said Seselj had no problems. Prior to the report by Dr Mijailovic, the Hague doctors submitted their report, two general practitioners and one gastroenterologist. They wrote on three pages that Vojislav Seselj has no health problems. Unfortunately, Dr. Mijailovic's report and what happened in The Hague was later denied. All the time, regardless of the Serb killings in The Hague tribunal, regardless of the health status of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal is critical, the government of the Republic of Serbia is silent. Your representatives are leaving the Health Committee. Your organised crime prosecutor, Miljko Radosavljevic, does not want to provide the information requested by him by the President of the Search Council or Judge Antoneti. When the D.A. asks you for something, you deliver within 24 hours. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not want to react, does not want to react in the protection of human rights, although it is bound by both the Constitution and the relevant international conventions it has signed. President of the Search Council of Three, Judge Jean-Claude Antonetti warned at the status conference on 21 September that Vojislav Seselj's health status is extremely serious. I don't know if you have ears to hear. That's what the International Criminal Tribunal's judge in The Hague said, the situation is very critical. As early as July as the shakedown of three, the Council ordered that medical expertise be carried out by Dr Vojislav Seselj. It wasn't done until today. He is given medications, according to Dr. Mijailovic, who are causing arrhythmias, and this is what Dr. Mijailovic wrote in his report on 16 October 2009, that certain types of medicines can give him arrhythmia, given to Vojislav Seselj. After that report, they continued to give these medications. What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia do? What are you really waiting for? You must act as soon as possible if you care about human rights, instead of courting the EU and putting up with the execution of Serbs in The Hague. You respect the Constitution, respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, respect the Convention on the Human Rights of the Council of Europe, respect the International Civil and Political Rights Pact and protect the rights of the endangered Serbs in The Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44422	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44423	Dear Madam President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, we are witnessing that the last days in the media are re-emerged texts that speak of how much MPs cost Serbian citizens. At a time of severe economic crisis, it is not difficult to assume that every citizen reads a lot of information about the fact that some MP has taken so much and so much money. I ask the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to answer us - how is it possible in the reports on the financial costs of the National Assembly, with the name of the MP, to put the costs of hotel accommodation, travel expenses, etc., for its participation in the work of parliamentary delegations and permanent parliamentary delegations? So, really, please, how can it also be possible, with the receipts of the MPs, to put in what they have contributed? How is it possible that an item can appear in which the MP receives what is taken by the state as well as by any other employee? So I ask you not only to answer all the MPs, I suppose this is the interest of all the MPs, because we understand that some have an interest in campaigning against parliament, but at the same time, when they are well-intentioned from the data they receive, they do not see clearly what the MP receives, and what is the regular cost of the National Assembly. So I ask you, in addition to the answer, to prepare for the MPs a proposal that would make a clearer picture of what are the receipts of the MPs, and what are the costs of the work of the regular activities of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44424	Anyone else in line with Article 286 want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Milos Aligrudic and Arsen Đuric. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the search in particular of the second item of the agenda, so the proposal for a law on accreditation, in addition to the representative of the promoter Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Prof. Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, called for the session to be attended by Jelena Popovic, Deputy Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Biljana Tomic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Health. We're continuing our work. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON ACREDITATION (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pelevic, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Milorad Bja, Milorad Škrbović, Milan Škrbić, Vjerica Radeta, Vladan Batić, Milorad Krstin and Dobrislav Prelic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. Mr. Otto Kishmarton wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44425	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the SNS has submitted a number of amendments to this legislative proposal in order to be better and to get better legislation. We've received the government's opinion and, according to him, all these proposals, not only the SNS, but the motions to amend some members of this bill at all, are not good. I'll at least try to explain to the citizens what we insisted on, what our amendments wanted to change in this legislative proposal. We of the SNS have submitted an amendment to the title of the law. This legislative proposal bears the name – the law on accreditation and that name tells us nothing about what this legal proposal refers to. If it is said, let's say, tomorrow, the accreditation law will be debated hardly so that without seeing the content of the law MPs, journalists or citizens who regularly pay TV subscription can know about this law, because the name – accreditation does not refer to the content of this law. If we say that tomorrow there will be a discussion of the law on water, the air traffic law, the budget law, that points to exactly what the Assembly will be talking about. The name of the accreditation law does not exactly point to the content of this law, because the term "accreditation" appears in many areas and in other regulations. It's a very extensive notion and in very broad use, which is not suitable as part of any regulation. The SNS proposal is certainly much better than the Government's proposal, and in our view this law should have a name – a law on quality control of products and services. This name points to what this law will apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44426	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Mr. Babic wants a word. Excuse me, Mr. Buha, one moment. MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, two days ago at the end of the debate in the principle of the proposal for a law on accreditation and consumer protection, you, Mr. Minister, deliberately or not gave one lie or made a lapus. Whether or not because of the lack of knowledge of the subject, you have said as a single comment on the presentation of all parliamentary groups that the request of one parliamentary group to change the name of the Law on Accreditation in the Quality Act is unfounded, that it is unnecessary. You were referring to the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, because this is one of our biggest objections to this bill, which we talked about in principle and translated into the amendment Mr Kishmarton Otto spoke of. Because of the restrictive rules of procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I was unable to respond or replicate. However, Minister Milosavljevic, you probably didn't follow us with enough attention or have been misinformed, since you spent a good part of your time out of the O.R., so you didn't realize that our request was to change the name of the law into a quality control law, not a quality law, as you interpreted. The difference between these two concepts is enormous and the name of the law itself could have been quite freely reported by the Government of RS ministers Obradovic, or Mr Vuk Jeremic or Bradic, because it is not known whether the term "accreditation" refers to the Law on Higher Education and Higher Educational Institutions or perhaps to the appointment of diplomatic representatives in foreign countries, or to the Information Law. To avoid any further confusion, I ask you, however, to adopt the amendment to the SNS and change the name of the law to the quality control law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44428	The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on accreditation. Before I read and explain the essence of the amendment, I must read Article 1. Proposal for a law on accreditation. The following is said in Article 1: This law regulates accreditation, position and work of the national body for accreditation of RS, as well as other issues of importance for accreditation. In my amendment, I asked for the word "accreditation" to be replaced by the words "system and accreditation procedure". It is a purely legal and regulatory addition of this member, which will far more widely clarify the system of measures itself and the accreditation process. The government has, in reason, rejected this amendment. The following is said in the explanation - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment does not change the essence of the concept of accreditation. My amendment and proposal was not to change the essence of accreditation, but only to clarify the basic elements and procedures of accreditation. Unfortunately, the government has rejected this amendment. I think she was wrong about all this. He was supposed to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44430	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Mr. Otto Kishmarton has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44431	Our parliamentary group has also submitted an amendment to Article 1 in order to more clearly define the issue that is being regulated by this law. I'm going to read again that first member as the government suggested. He says: This law regulates accreditation, position and work of the national accreditation body in the Republic of Serbia, as well as other issues of importance for accreditation. Our proposal is that this article reads as follows: This law regulates the establishment and jurisdiction of the Quality Control Agency, the conditions that must be met by legal and natural persons who exercise quality control of products and services in transport and compliance with standards and the procedure for issuing assurances of compliance with the conditions for the performance of quality control of products and services in transport and compliance with standards. Our MP group and I are much better off than the government's proposal. The proposed text of our amendment defines in a clearer way the issues to be regulated by this law, in order to be understandable. The amendment also proposes that the body responsible for issuing assurances and other related tasks be called the Quality Control Agency. The use of the word "body" in the government's proposal in the name of this member and other members of the proposal is obviously due to a lack of understanding of the legal position of that legal entity and an attempt to determine the name mechanically and incorrectly translated term "accreditary badiz", which was used in the EU Council Regulation number and that. The term was translated literally by law writers as "accreditation body", instead of "accreditation authority" or "authorised entity", which would be the correct essential translation and real meaning of the term. In fact, the English word "badi" was used in the texts of the regulations to mark the state body, not the body. When used to mark a body or a group, it's a human body or a mechanical body. Inappropriateness and inappropriation of the body's name is also obvious in the case of countries in the English speaking area, because in the names of their authorities and public agencies there is no word "badi", which is a clear sign that we should not use that name in Serbia either.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44432	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Igor Becic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, I will explain to Serbia why you should have accepted the amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law. Article 2 is amended and reads as follows: 1) The assessment of conformity is any activity which determines whether certain requirements relating to the product, process, service, system or person established by regulations and standards are met; 2) The authorised organisation is a legal person with valid confidence in the competence to carry out the conformity assessment and is entered in the Register. Article 2 sets out the meaning of some of the terms used in this proposal. The need to determine the meaning was created because expressions of foreign origin were used or expressions that are not in Serbian or foreign languages. At the same time, explanations of meaning are incomprehensible to the extent that it is better not to mention it. We also see that some of the points do not comply with the Constitution. In the subsequent amendments to these procedures and concepts, the SNS has arranged in a way that is understandable to the extent that special interpretation and determination of meaning are not necessary. If the proposing representative does not believe that these provisions are incomprehensible, we suggest that he informs the MPs of their content without reading and explain them by their meaning. The amendment also proposes to establish the meaning of certain terms that is needed for the sake of the easier application of the law and the understanding of certain provisions. The case of incomprehensibility is also point 1) to the extent that reasons should not be explained. Also, we think that it is unnecessary to explain competence at point 4 and in fact it is a confirmed ability. An example of total confusion due to unnecessary while at the same time using multiple words of foreign origin is point 2), where at the same time the words "certificate, accreditation and competence" are used. This provision explains the accreditation certificate, which is a document that is issued to a body that is not competent, which is so far-reaching language structure, that the writers of this proposal really have nothing to be proud of. But they have something to be ashamed of. In translation into the classical and clear Serbian language, the word certification is a assurance of the fulfillment of the conditions for carrying out a conformity assessment, which is issued to a legal or physical person who has met the prescribed conditions. The example of disagreement with the Constitution is point 5, which explains that the rules are adopted by so-called ‘the Constitution’. an accreditation body. Those rules shall lay down its powers and rights and obligations of the parties in the administrative procedures itself, contrary to the principle of the division of the authorities referred to in Article 4. The Constitution and the rules of international law adopted. Nothing is better with point 7), which states that both the person and the part of the legal person can be given the authority, although it is generally known that part of the legal person cannot be an independent bearer of rights and obligations. It is also a fact that the amendments are being rejected, and that in the light of the rejection of this amendment, it is apparent that no amendments are being made to the essence of the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44434	The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Zoran Antic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the accreditation law is one of the laws that may have been passed seven or eight years ago, if not ten years ago, from the moment you started liberalising imports and when you exposed our economy to one unfair competition. The unfair competition in this sense that from that moment on, a lot of unskilled products have entered Serbia, there has been no quality control, and there has been no safety of these products. Unfortunately, in a number of laws that you have passed in the meantime, you did not foresee the control of goods imported into Serbia. The SNS is a disappointment that one of the basic reasons for the adoption of this law is the accession of the World Trade Organisation, possibly the EU. So, something that we're being blackmailed by international factors, which we didn't recognize from how important it is to our economy. As I said, for the safety of our citizens, but also the possibility that through better quality products, through one standardisation of our products, we can go to the world market and be much more competitive on that world market. The importance of this law is great for our economy and gives it great opportunities. That's all we can declare. If we look at the state of our economy, if we look at how much technologically we lag behind European countries, which we most often see, and richly and in terms of countries in the environment, we will see that this law itself will not give us a great chance at our economy. The technical regulations that should be regulated through the Accreditation Act, through the formation of various inspections, commissions, laboratories that will determine the quality of goods will be a major problem for our industry, because it is not just about quality, it is also about production processes, so the technological processes that apply to production. If you look at how far behind Serbia is compared to countries in the world, and I'm not talking about countries in the environment, you'll see that by absorbing new technologies from 130 countries, our country is about 115, 120th place. According to the sophistication of the production process, we are in some 118th place, out of about 130 countries in the world where the survey was conducted, that, by investing in the information and technology sector, we are lagging behind almost all the countries in an environment that have four to five times more investment in information technology. This best shows how unsophisticated our products are, how competitive they are on the world market and how not in the essence of this law is not in the interest of our economy, but will be much more in the interest of foreign businesses, in the interest of future importers, because I fear that thanks to this law we will begin more and we have already started to lose the domestic market. If we look at realistically, in all non-income competitiveness factors, Serbia is lagging behind when it comes to both quality and design and packaging, including the application of standards. We simply don't have products and production today with which we can even go to the domestic market, and even the essential ones when it comes to raw materials that are large companies that have entered our import market. Therefore, all these amendments, which are designed by the SNS, are mainly aimed at adapting our economy to global regulation, to do so gradually, to go through the strengthening of quality, but what is extremely important for us, is to finally create a strategy for technological development, to be done according to technological knowledge, which is very scarce and which does not follow the world's flows, because we are behind the world maybe 20 to 30 years in the application of technology and in some areas, even four to five technological generations behind us, so that this is done gradually in order for our economy to provide an opportunity for all of these normative, all of which, of course, will follow much more intensively after the application of this law, we adopt, so that we can save this little of our economy. I'll give you one more piece of information. If you look at the drop in imports over the last few months, you'll see that maybe the biggest drop in equipment imports is. This means that we will also be technologically and how to lag behind and that we will not be able to catch up with the world economy and provide a much more decent standard for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44436	Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44437	Dear Madam President, I use the time the New Serbia Parliament Club has. Not getting into the essence of the problem this law should have, of course, I support the amendments that SNS colleagues have submitted, but there is an issue that one can interpret as seemingly not the subject of today's debate. So, Mr. Milosavljevic, since you are in the trend of the minister's new tactics that you are not taking part in the dialogue with the MPs who have honored you, all who have submitted the amendments, not only to you, but to every minister should be honored when MPs submit amendments, that means that they respect the work of the minister, the ministry or anyone who wrote that law. I want to give you a chance, as I gave you a chance to thank me a year ago here, in this same place, to ask you -- if this law existed a year ago, would you get so many millions of vaccines? Would that vaccine-procured procedure go beyond this accreditation law? After all, I think that you are obliged to finally give the citizens of Serbia the answer – who organized the epidemic scam, to God's pandemic of the flu in Serbia? How much damage did the budget, so Serbian citizens, suffer? When did the vaccine run out? What was done with those vaccines? If the deadline has passed, have they been destroyed? Where are they destroying themselves? What is the procedure for destroying these vaccines? That's what I'm talking about as a concerned citizen, as I asked you last time, since I saw you a few days ago in some extorted mini interview, where the press are asking you what's going on with those vaccines, who's destroying them. I'd like you to remind me-- did I hear correctly that you would give this to some poor country in Africa, I think, of that vaccine? Is it possible that there is such a poor country, even if it is in Africa, that will receive vaccines? (President: I would like to remind you, however, which subject we are on. You're the one who picked up the amendment. ) Madam President, I am speaking to you as a doctor, the citizens of Serbia have been deceived, from here, from the National Assembly, unfortunately. I took part in it, I have the right to ask. (President: Please, the institution of asking parliamentary questions has passed. I'm asking - if there was an accreditation law a year ago, would the vaccines have been obtained at all, would they have passed the provisions of this law? That's the point of my question. (President: Today, the Minister is our representative of the Government on a certain agenda. Please, not just you, all of us, just stick to the agenda. ) If you think this is not the agenda, that there is something to explain to Serbian citizens, imagine now where Serbian citizens are deluded. Imagine, you can think, Mr. Minister, about me whatever you want, I ask this honestly -- that in a month there really is an epidemic or a pandemic, that there is no fraud, like last time, and I must remind you, as Minister of Health, that the Minister of Health...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44438	I would ask you, since the minister is getting ready even if he answers you, you have no, unfortunately, right. This isn't about today. It is not at all disputed that, within the framework of the Parliamentary Affairs Institute, it is a question, but we must stick to the agenda. I'm really asking you to help me with that. Don't put me in a position to use any other regulations of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44439	Okay, Mr. President, you're using your powers, I'm talking about the accreditation law and I'm asking. (President: You will receive a written reply today, the minister now says. Then let me finish, means I'm on the subject, right? (President: finish your sentence, but stick to the subject, please. So, what's the point of my question, Mr. Minister? Ask some of your party colleagues who know me, that they know that I always speak frankly. If an epidemic or pandemic really appeared within a month, what about citizens' confidence in the health system that was hit by this fraud last time? Do you know what the media campaign was like? How many meetings were there here in the Assembly? Who's going to believe, first, that no vaccines will be given to which deadline has expired, and who's going to believe that they should use vaccines at all? I remind you that today is October 7th, I think, the beginning of the seasonal flu.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44440	The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44441	I thank you for asking because this question obviously requires an answer, since either you are deeply misinformed or completely uninformed. I don't want to believe you're doing this on purpose. Last season, Serbia lost the lives of 10 pregnant women and unborn children due to H1N1 viruses. The mortality during pregnancy and birth to 60,000 pregnancies each year is measured by the number that is also unbearablely large, but is single-digit, of different diseases. Last season in that, as you say, the imaginary pandemic of 10 pregnant women lost their lives. Of all the people who had severe disease, pneumonia caused by the virus, in two-thirds of the cases they were people aged 20 to 60, who were previously completely healthy. The H1N1 virus caused a wide-scale pandemic last season and presents a major challenge for all health systems. During the entire epidemic, in Serbia, this was clearly demonstrated by all epidemiological analyses, one third of us in this country has resistance to the virus. Experts who are epidemiologists from this country and around the world say that this fact should not be neglected. The vaccine against this virus is also advised this year, the vaccination started in Serbia on 15 September this year and will continue with the vaccine until 31 October. Medically, collegiately and humanly, if you have not passed the flu and if you have not vaccinated, this is advised to everyone after six months of age, especially pregnant women, especially if they are particularly overweight, because they are groups that are particularly endangered. In this season besides this H1N1 virus, a seasonal vaccine containing two other minor viruses is produced and will be vaccinated by groups according to that procedure, according to the vaccination calendar as it goes every year, meaning, older than 65 years and all who have some chronic disease. As Minister of Health, I'm a man who's trying to be responsible. The response of the Serbian government to the threat of the pandemic, which was a threat to the whole world and which took a large number of lives, was to make the purchase of vaccines, signed contracts, planned procurement in a number of three million, but the country was paid and paid eight hundred thousand doses, and I think it would be my turn for you to stop mentioning those millions that were neither bought nor entered and that were eight hundred thousand. About 200,000 doses have been vaccinated and spent. With 600,000 doses up to 31 October, we will try, despite the disinformation that is occasionally irresponsiblely placed, unfortunately from this building, where the WHO sat in 2007, and it is an honor to us as a country, we will try to explain to the citizens of Serbia that the basic intention was protection. Neither I was buying vaccines, nor was I carrying out the purchase of the vaccine, but was already doing so by law the person in charge of the government's decision and it was the RZO for the insurance money, or the budget that helped with the health insurance. That's what's true. If the truth is dear to you above all else, then please do not speak falsely to the citizens of Serbia, try to have the responsibility that every civil servant in this country, in the state administration and elected representative of the people's will in parliament has, and that is to do good for all citizens of Serbia, despite the name of the party to which you or I belong, or a fourth. There is responsibility here for the health of Serbian citizens and that is what is public interest. I call upon you to try to serve this supreme interest together above all else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44442	Mr. Minister, I thank you for the very useful information, but I must remind both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia that we are obliged to stick to a certain agenda. Mr. Markicevic, if you intend to take this subject to heart, I cannot give you my word, if you want to talk about amendments, you have time for a parliamentary group. Here, you have a word, but on a subject we really need to stick to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44443	So you're saying I can't answer anything to the minister, not a single sentence. If you say that, I don't want to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44444	If you want the amendment, you have the word. You don't want to, thank you. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44445	As for Article 4, I think this amendment, if this didn't suit you with the change in the name of this body you designed, that article 4 is in place, and it consists of two sentences and says that accreditation is voluntary. This is what the next members say – the procedure is initiated at the request of the party. This implies that accreditation itself is voluntary and also in the following sentence, the article consists of those two sentences and is said to be – a special law can establish that accreditation is mandatory. Of course, this special law will establish in itself the obligation of accreditation and does not need to add and impose a hint of a commitment to this law. I think it was quite logical and extremely well-intentioned by the SNS for submitting this amendment and for no reason whatsoever, I don't think you've accepted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44446	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44447	As with the previous member, the proposal and attitude of the SRS is to delete a provision that is unnecessary in law. So we don't need norms and it's not the usual practice to standardize certain things that are of a college character. You're here in the bill of law saying that the accreditation body doesn't do business for profit. An economic-legal category is obtained, which is an integral part of the economic system, because if you have no profit, you are losers, and losers belong to a body category that must be vice versa with repressive measures of the state, which is bankruptcy, liquidation and so on. So, the condition of your survival in the economic, economic and financial system that you have profit. We think this is an unnecessary category, so we kicked her out. What's even more important, you haven't treated in this law, which is a system of bodies that will work and will have to have profit. The issue of their ownership is now 100% of the social enterprises in this area, and 70% is privatized, 30% is state institutions, laboratories that will be privatised and that will enter the transformation and the question is who will buy them. We'll get to the absurdity that control will be carried out by a body owned by one person, and it will be controlled by a goods owned by the same person, only in another form, but the same legal person owned by one. The manufacturer will again be someone who owns that third legal person. We need to talk about these absurds, and you didn't open it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44448	The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44449	Just for a little while, a bid for a quality agency from that belief that infrastructure quality is extremely important to our country, our economy. We felt it was necessary to stress that the accent should be quality. Of course, we believe that, first and foremost, in some future period, we should think about modernising our economy and that if this agency were to deal with quality, it would contribute to modernization and allow us to have much more value than we have right now. It would also direct our economy to investment in research and importing new technologies for the work that the government is supposed to do. This institution for which we stand would have the authority and should work on it, to improve the competitiveness of our economy, and that is the essence of this amendment that this agency is renamed and that, in part, its competence of amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44450	The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44451	Here is a general note, although the session is scheduled as soon as possible, in which we have had a short time to submit amendments to consumer protection laws, accreditation, air traffic, navigation, the budget system, as you can see, we have tried to submit amendments that are, let it not act immodestly, but let it be a truly justified criticism to the Government, based on Serbia's legal legal system rather than the government's own proposal, or the minister who defends the law here. It is Article 6, which speaks of the accreditation body operating as an institution, speaks of it as if someone had written you a law, it is not an objection to you personally, because you are not a lawyer, who, by the system "kopi-paist", prescribed that legal status from some law, and before the adoption of the Law on Public Agencys. Namely, the accreditation body, which, by your reasoning, deals with quality control tasks of products and services, I read your explanation, is "the national accreditation body, which manages the accreditation system in Serbia and represents the top of the quality infrastructure system". It's a little bit more jargonic than professional, but it doesn't matter. He now says: "In the area of quality infrastructure, a conformity assessment of products, processes and services with technical regulations and standards, professional and technical qualified persons are conducted to assess the conformity of products, such as laboratories, certification and control bodies. Accreditation is assessed in an independent and impartial manner by the competence of the body to assess the conformity of the product." Let the citizens assess whether this is a quality law, how you've made a point to us, or whether it's a law on quality control of products and services. So much for the law itself. What is called reaching and changing the old law to a new one, which you wrote on page 9 of the reasoning, that you are currently promoting legal status, organisation and way of working as an accreditation body, is that you are calling for the Law on Public Services, which was adopted in 1991 and 1994, has changed everything in one part, that Article 23 is losing importance in 2005. So, before the public agency law was passed. I ask – what is the reason to define it and establish it in a legal sense, according to the Law on Public Services, if this law specifically tells you that institutions are established in accordance with the Law on Public Services, in order "to enforce the rights laid down by law in the field of education, science, culture, physical culture, student and student standards, health care, social welfare, child welfare, social security and animal health". Is it not obvious that such actions are not involved and that the Law on Public Services cannot be applied to this law? I don't have any more comments, and if you have an explanation, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44452	On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44453	Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the SRS on the proposal for a law on accreditation was ruled out when we spoke in the principle debate, and now through amendments. The amendment to Article 7 refers to the accreditation body of Serbia. It seems to me, after this explanation by Minister Milosavljevic 15 minutes ago, that no other explanation is needed when it comes to this so-called. independent regulatory bodies, government commissions, etc. Just now, the minister answered the question of counterpart Markicevic, said that he, as minister and government, cannot have and have no responsibility when it comes to obtaining vaccines, no matter how many they were obtained, no price, no quality, etc., because it was another government body. We Serbian radicals fight exactly that. So if someone is a government, if someone is a government and if they are a minister, then they must be responsible for everything that is in the jurisdiction of their resources. I am not saying this specifically now, Minister Milosavljevic, but I am speaking at all as an SRS attitude. This is our position, and when it comes to the accreditation body of Serbia, which is not a newspaper established by this law and exactly the experience we have with this body, it gives us the right to claim that this law will not change anything when it comes to dealings with the competence of this accreditation body. There are many bad experiences, and if this is an accreditation body, as it says here, "the accreditation body is the only one in the Republic of Serbia that is entrusted with the conduct of accreditation operations". However, what we have learned so far is that this accreditation body was in the service of foreigners. When it comes to importing goods and exporting goods, nothing has been done for the benefit of Serbian citizens, producers in Serbia, exporters from Serbia. Everything that could have been done was done precisely at the expense of our interests, particularly economic ones, and in the good part and national ones, but it was therefore done in favour of those who spread with their various trade networks across Serbia. Should we remind ourselves, only when this bill appeared, as well as the Consumer Protection Bill, in the assembly procedure, did the media begin daily to inform the public of Serbia what is happening in the field of trade, as all citizens meet in shops, in large shopping centres, etc. I'll just mention it as an example of "Idea," which, we know, has already occupied our market. Of course, the accreditation body of Serbia, which has existed so far, and so will this which you will form with this law, has done nothing to at least establish reciprocity with some countries whose representatives are on our market. Maybe it's more of a topic for this next law, but anyway, the laws are tied up. After all, you put them in a united debate. In fact, the inspectors have found that in "Idea" products that have expired and that, with changes in prices that are daily, over the term of a beautiful sticker, labels with a new price, and so citizens are led into an incredible delusion and, worst of all, it can, Mr. Minister, you know it well, negatively affect citizens' health. You know you can't eat rotten food. If something has expired, and it is food, then it is certainly seriously jeopardising the citizens of Serbia. In particular, Article 7 and the amendment that we have submitted states that the accreditation body, as you say, must meet "the requirements of the standard establishing general requirements for accreditation bodies which determine the competence of the body to assess compliance". First of all, it is obvious that this attitude of Article 7 has been copied from somewhere, as in the spirit of Serbian language it would be that Serbia's accreditation body "must meet the requirements" rather than "must meet". So this is probably from that Sanader or Kosorka package of CDs you paid for when they delivered you a few months ago. What is fundamentally a proposal for our amendment is that in this law and this position it must say that the accreditation body of Serbia must meet the standards that have been established, etc., and not the requirements of the standard. You then say in your explanation that you cannot accept our amendment for the reasons that the accreditation body does not have to meet the standards but rather the requirements set out in a given standard. This is really amazing. I'd love to, Mr. Minister, if you could explain to us a little what this sentence means to you and please don't throw it away, but if you're going to say answer the word and say it, because what you're doing is rude. So, I ask that we be explained what this unblessed sentence here was delivered to us in an explanation of why the amendment, a sentence of the Serbian Government, which is why the government does not accept this amendment. So, what government, what ministers, what laws, is no wonder that Serbian citizens are increasingly trying to live, which is what Serbian citizens actually survive. The government doesn't care, you meet the EU's conditions, what you promised, and what citizens will get from it is best for the citizens themselves. That is why we Serbian radicals are proud of the fact that for twenty years we are the biggest opponents of the NATO Pact and the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44454	The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Igor Becic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44455	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, in this, as well as in previous amendments, the SNS wanted to specify individual members of this law, so Article 7. The draft law also amends - the organisation and business of the agencies shall be governed by the founding act, the statute and other general acts in accordance with the law governing the work of public agencies, as Article 7. The proposal is also incomprehensible, especially because there is no standard that sets out requirements that must be met by the agency. This is about a very clumsy attempt to interpret point 16. Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU No 765/2008 which prescribes that national authorities must possess adequate knowledge, capabilities and resources to carry out their tasks properly. However, this should not be prescribed by law but by the founding act and by the acts of the Agency's work. If the founding act still wants to be regulated in the most general way, and by law, then a more appropriate definition should be found. However, if these conditions are introduced into the law, then a body must be designated to determine whether the Agency fulfils these conditions, which determines the fulfilment of the conditions and consequences resulting from non-compliance. Of course, it is not disputed that the Agency must be qualified to carry out its responsibilities, which must be taken into account by the founder and the supervisory authority, but are the consequences of the inability of public authorities to carry out entrusted tasks already prescribed by the State Administration Act. Also, we do not know whether some members of these laws are less specific or unclear or why the government refuses our amendments. For example, this amendment was rejected and said they did not accept it for the reason that the proposal was that the accreditation body operate as an institution, i.e. in accordance with the rules governing public services.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44456	The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44457	And this Article 8 we wanted to specify, because in Article 8 paragraph 1 point 1), we ask that it be deleted, and point 2 is changed, and it should read – the content and manner of data management and publication from the Register is prescribed by the Ministry. Point 1) is contrary to the principle of division of the power referred to in Article 4. The Constitution and the general rules of international law, since it prescribes that the rules are adopted, so-called. the accreditation body which prescribes such rules its competences, rights and obligations of parties in the administrative procedures only he or she conducts. The inability of so-called jurisdictional regulation is closer to the order of Article 16. The Law on State Administration, which is prescribed that authorities are not able to lay down their and foreign jurisdiction or to establish rights and obligations to natural and legal persons which have not already been established by law. The same remark applies to Article 2 so it is necessary that the way in which the register is conducted is prescribed by the ministry. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly put aside such provisions, so it would be high time the legislators took care of the principle of the division of power, as one of the fundamental democratic principles on which modern states are based. For those reasons, the conditions and procedures of issuing a certificate of compliance with the conditions for performance, the assessment of compliance must be prescribed to the competent ministry. Also, we have no doubt that this is known to the authors of this bill, however, they are coming up with and deliberately trying to transfer the sublegals to the agency, so they wouldn't do them. That is another reason why a large number of agencies have been established by law. It is obvious to them that it is best for them to transfer all their jobs to others, on the cost of citizens who have to finance these new agencies, while they retain their chairs, salaries and privileges. We see that agency directors have multiple salaries than other public office holders. Jobs are also relocated to these agencies, but officials who have worked in the ministries remain in their jobs, relieved of these jobs, while the agencies employ new employees and hundreds of agencies already employ several thousand employees, while at the same time the number of civil servants has been increased rather than reduced, as the goal of setting up agencies is precisely to streamline the affairs of the state administration, and we see that public spending is constantly increasing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44458	The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Predrag Mijatovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Health Minister, I'm glad to see you, but I would have preferred to have seen you when we talked about the Transfusion Act, about the Insemination Act. There was a place for you, and here I'm afraid you're merely incompetent to represent the government, which has become a manners. That's what I'm telling you as a colleague. So, the government has proposed a Article 10 that I have to read to you, which is: "The accreditation body of Serbia is independent of the body to assess the consistency it assesses. ATS shall not provide advisory services to bodies for the assessment of compliance, to carry out operations or to provide services provided by bodies for the assessment of compliance and to have ownership and/or management rights or other financial interests in bodies for the assessment of compliance. '"We at SNS think this is a little too broadly said. We have proposed that this article be changed in order to be more concise, which should be said - the agency is independent in performing the tasks it has been authorised by this law. Second, the Agency cannot exercise other activities or acquire ownership or management rights. It's our proposal to change this member. The proposed amendment addresses the issue of independence and avoidance of conflicts of interest in a simpler and clearer way. Article 10, which you have proposed, is prescribed that it cannot have any interest, provide services or be a competition to organisations engaged in activities within the competence of the agencies. However, the public agency cannot deal with other temporary activities, as it is established to carry out public administration operations, so the ban must apply to all activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44460	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44461	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to this article 11, all in order as well as the amendments so far. Their next goal is to fix this law to help the government make a good accreditation law, but the government has not accepted any of the proposed amendments, so the question is whether it is worth trying to help the government make a good law. This is in that people's land, and they are free to whisper deafly, and to wink blindly. If they do not listen, they will not receive help, nor are they worth trying and helping. Amendments can only serve to show citizens good intentions about what a good law should look like. In this amendment, the Government's draft law states that ETS authorities are the board of directors, directors and supervisory board. The previous amendment was suggested not to be called an accreditation body, but to be a quality control agency. Therefore, our amendment would read: "The agencies are the managing board and director. The composition of the Management Board and the conditions for the appointment of members of the Management Board and of the Director shall be drawn up by a founding act. "The law on public agencies stipulates that management bodies are boards and directors, and supervision of the work of the agency is carried out by the government which is the founder of the agency. The way public agency education is their work and the selection of members of the body are also prescribed by the Public Agency Act, so they cannot be prescribed by the founding act. The basic act may only prescribe the number of members of the Management Board which may be between three and seven and the specific conditions for appointment, except those already prescribed by law. So, with this amendment, we wanted to improve this law in order for Serbia and Serbia's citizens to get one good law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44462	The People's MP, Milorad Krstin, submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by reading this bill on accreditation in Article 12, in paragraph 3, I noticed some illogicalities. For the sake of the public and the citizens of Serbia, I would take the opportunity to read the 3rd position in Article 12, which, according to me and the SRS parliamentary group, is absolutely controversial. "The members of the council are selected prominent experts and scientific workers from areas that are important for carrying out the work of ETS as representatives of stakeholders. "I suggest that in Article 12 paragraph 3. The bill of the word "as representatives of the interested parties" is deleted. I gave a clear explanation to the government, and to you, Minister. It reads: "This amendment proposes to delete part of attitude 3 because it is contrary to one of the objectives of forming this body, which is the independence and impartiality of this institution. If the members of the council are proposed by interested parties, the principles of independence and impartiality set out above will be violated. "The explanation is clear and professional. What irritates me in this response to the government is an explanation why it is not accepted, which says: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Serbian standard SRPS ISO/IEC 17011, requires, in accordance with the principle of impartiality, that the national accreditation body enables the interested parties to participate effectively in the work of the accreditation body. "If what I imagine is that these representatives of the interested parties are simply economic entities from abroad, if I'm right, which I should be, you should accept this amendment because it is the only way you would avoid what I have given in my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44464	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44465	Namely, again reading this proposal for a law on accreditation in Article 13 is said to be – ATS labour funds are provided: by charging the costs of accreditation, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from other sources, in accordance with the law. This last "from other sources, according to the law," I think you'll find it difficult to achieve. My amendment reads as follows: "Article 13 paragraph 1(2) of the bill is deleted" and I give my reasons – this amendment proposes to delete item 2) item 1 relating to the security of assets for the operation of ATS, because the budget is in a huge deficit and is unable to provide additional resources for the work of a state institution. You know well that in the last three years or during the reign of you who have been in power since 2008, the SRS has always been against these public agencies or agencies that literally every ministry has. What's going on? These agencies to work, set up a director, set up a board of directors, set up a supervisory board, and these are all a number of people and for that particular number of people, I can say now, especially in this difficult situation to the economic one, where Serbian citizens barely make ends meet, you need to allocate additional funds from the budget for this accreditation body, for the director, for the competent authority, for the board of directors. I don't know how you mean it when your budget is so reduced, it's reduced maximum. God, what we have is the knowledge that these very directors of these agencies that have been established by each ministry have good salaries, as well as those on boards and boards. That is why I ask that simply in Article 13 paragraph 1(2) be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44466	The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has not adopted any amendments in this bill. Apparently, the government's authorised representative finds it extremely difficult to accept that something he represents changes. I don't know why. Probably because he can't accept or reject something he doesn't know, so stick to the story – let's not make any mistakes, so we don't accept any amendments just in case. Our amendment does not change the essence of the bill itself, only a little more precisely edits one area. However, in Articles 3, 4 and 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The draft law already lays down one specific illogicality, which is that other sources consider other revenues made in accordance with the law. In the next position, Serbia's accreditation body must not receive gifts, donations from service users. Whoever wrote this law had to define this much more precisely, because there are connected faces. They're not concerned with this, and the related people can be donor donors. It could be another face where it's the same founder. So, from one of the same founders, two legal persons. If you want this body to be financed from donations to give it a legal option, you can, but donations are paid to the Republic of Serbia's budget, and budgeted as if it were transferred to that body. It's the only way to prevent possible abuse. This is how you left the possibility of someone conflicting interest in the accreditation body through their connected faces. Also in this article 12. I would like someone to answer me, that is something that I am mostly arguing about here in the Assembly with the legislators, or the Government, it is – prominent experts or scientific workers are elected for members of the council. All right, scientists, they're professors at the university, they have to have a number of bodies from that scientific work published in that area, but what are prominent experts here? What is your criterion for prominent experts? We are now almost the Serbian Parliament, on a proposal from the Committee on Trade and Tourism, established the composition of candidates for the Anti-Monopolitan Commission. Just because of these inaccurate formulations, the candidate for the president of the Antimonopoly Commission has never worked in the economy. The only thing he was doing was the judge, whether the municipal court, the district court or the trade court. Because you leave such a possibility we now have one of these situations. In fact, none of the candidates worked in the economy. So it remains a question of the efficiency of the commission's work? It's the same here. So you have no criteria for members of the Council. Whether or not the representatives of the interested parties can participate, I'm not saying it's not possible, but I also say it's not good. You know, there's still one big problem in Serbia, and that's corruption. I can tell you that so far the institutions that have been dealing with product quality control thanks to the very Ministry of Agriculture have also requested that their services to users be charged in a suspicious manner. Now, you're going to be the ones who have been here doing the ORgy on the market for ten years now, because we put aside our state institutes that have dealt with and assessed the quality of the product, to allow them to be interested. This is also possible to apply the standards you call upon only when you reduce corruption to the level that exists in EU countries. Until then, this can only be wishful and let go of dreams and nothing more. If you write the laws in the short term, this can go away, but in laws, we should also determine certain standardisations, and this bill certainly does not go into effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44468	An amendment to which Article 13a is added after Article 13. The 21st National MP's group advanced Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44469	Ladies and gentlemen, we were talking about the ATS resources and we wanted to add this Article to the 13th like this: "The Agency is issuing a tariff which thus determines the amount of compensation for its services to cover the costs of the service, with the consent of the Government. The proposal for a fee for services provided by the Agency to the users under this law shall consist of the Management Board of the Agency and shall be published in at least one daily report published throughout the Republic of Serbia, with a call to the potential users that within a period which cannot be less than eight days or longer than 30 days of delivery of the objection and proposals. The proposal for a tariff from the agencies also provides the opinion of the Ministry of Standardisation and the Ministry of Finance Affairs. In addition to submitting a tariff on consent to the Government, the Management Board is obliged to state in its explanation the objectives achieved by tariffs and reasons for which it has not accepted the observations and proposals of potential users and ministries. As the government agrees on tariffs, tariffs are published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and enters into force eight days after the announcement. '"So that's the text we wanted to add to the law as 13a. Normally, the government turned him down. I don't understand this rejection. It's more like a salad than words, as psychiatrists would say. But, well, the one who wrote might know what he wanted to say with that explanation. Article 13 The proposal in paragraph 2 is prescribed to determine the amount of compensation in accordance with the cost decision, but the amendment is proposed for a change which does not prescribe a way of determining the height. The regulation that this agency only determines the amount of service it charges under this law without any control or consent is not in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on public agencies which is prescribed the procedure for the adoption of a tariff on services carried out by public agencies. These transactions are carried out in the public interest, in the interest of the users, with the aim of providing conditions for the performance of this business branch and its development and cannot be afforded to anyone to charge such services according to their own interests, without having a legal monopoly. This can make it seriously difficult and accumulate the performance and development of this activity. Such a provision also significantly deviates from established practices in other activities, but also in the EU, where such monopolies are not known or prohibited. Although we are calling on the EU. So for these reasons, we propose adding Article 13a, as I have already said, which would regulate the process of setting the price of services. The proposed text of Article 13a is essentially made up in accordance with the Law on public agencies and the principles of the Constitution on the work of the authorities of the state administration and the confidence of public authority, as well as good practice and EU regulations. Thank you. The minister telephones by not knowing which time and talks and doesn't listen to what we're talking about, we only tell Serbian citizens, not the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44470	National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Toolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to add to Article 15 of the Law the position of 6 which reads - the rules of accreditation are passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. The amendment proposed that the SRS put a new position to define the holder of the production and adoption of accreditation rules. The reason for the installation of this attitude lies in the fact that the legislator did not clearly determine the holder who lays down the rules of accreditation and the time limit within which the rules are laid down. Believe us, we knew that the amendment would be rejected because of this last sentence, and these are the rules of accreditation and the time limit in which it was brought forward. As far as the deadline is concerned, it is generally known that you simply do not respect the deadlines, to permanently violate the law and violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Whatever the deadline is, it's in your favor and it's a way to refuse the amendment to protect against any possible consequences for you. Although you're skillfully avoiding it. As long as we don't know, but we're sure to give just one example, which is, say, the Anti-Corruption Agency, where all the officials were supposed to declare which function they were holding. So after that, we had here a proposal to amend and supplement the law, where we were given the possibility that by September 31st, all of the statements that function are being performed, just to gain time. That is more than humiliating, and that is one reason why we suspect that this accreditation law will not be applied as it should be, that there will be great abuses, that they will be privileged, that accreditations will be given to people who are close to the authorities and that surely, in what is safe, the SRS will selectively apply this law. And that's one of the reasons the SRS won't be able to back this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44472	Thirty-five seconds of Parliament time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only read one part of the argument, why the amendment proposed by the MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia-SNS, has been rejected. It says – the amendment is not accepted because it does not accurately define the requirements that the applicant must fulfil in order to obtain an accreditation certificate. Let's look at this member of the bill, as the government suggested. It says – the accreditation certificate shall be issued for a specified period of time in accordance with the rules of accreditation. The amendment says that confidence is issued with a deadline of four years. Who's inaccurate here now? Government or applicants of the amendment? What are the rules of accreditation? Who's setting them up? Why doesn't the law determine that? You can't use sublegislative acts anymore, or will the Council sit down to determine the rules of accreditation or will the Management Board? Who's gonna lay down those rules? International regulations? Why didn't you turn them into laws, too? Or, if those rules already exist, why aren't they in the law here? Also, the bill does not say what when that deadline expires, or even, even if it is according to the rules of accreditation. When does a new request have to be filed? The day it expires, then there's a solution to recheck whether it meets the requirements, or, to specify another deadline, how long before the certification itself expires? In every legislation, but in every single one, when an authority of the administration, an institution or anything, or even the ministry, when it adopts an individual administrative act, there must be an openness to the decision, whether someone has been injured by a right when a certain act is adopted. There's no such thing as a bill of law here. It seems to me that this law, like many others, will be evaluated by the Constitutional Court. I see that many are now, counselors or whatever they are, about the minister, and I'm telling you, for as long as I've been an MP this year, it's eleventh, I've learned that the laws when they're not well defined, when they're not precisely arranged, after two or three years come back here in the Assembly as new laws or proposals for amendments and additions of laws. As a rule, those who enforce the law or who are interested in law enforcement find weak spots, play the law and legislation of Serbia. I am absolutely sure that this law will be reunited in a year and a half to two days here in the Assembly procedure, whether as completely novels as changes and additions, but with a law like this if you intend to comply with legislation with EU countries, where there is no still an orderly state in the right sense of words, then this is extremely unserious.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44474	Used two minutes and five seconds of MP time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44475	On behalf of the SRS, I asked that this member be deleted because he is incomplete, vague, and on the other hand he has certain problems in a normative sense. Namely, in Article 16. The bill is said – ATS, with the accreditation certificate, assigns a symbol of accreditation, not to read any further, this is the first part of the member. He says, along with the accreditation certificate, he assigns the symbol of accreditation. In the case of allocations, the state body shall not assign anything without a certain legal act. The legal act lays down the rights and obligations. When something is assigned, it's in a private jargon, a young man assigns, gives something to a girl. There's no allocations in normative life. There is a legal act establishing the rights and obligations. This is behind it, he says. With the certificate act, he assigns a symbol. So, based on some legal act. The problem, however, is in your bill of law that you have not established by legal act to assign or adopt a national certification act. If you thought, as you told me on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, that this was defined by the certificate act, so you told me, then you cannot stand this provision of the law – along with. It's like this -- ATC "U," not "with," but "in." It is said that, in the accreditation certificate, the accreditation symbol is assigned. For me and for the SRS, this is unnecessary, because you haven't defined that either. It's a little against the law to define this and linguistically wrong. It's visible from my exposure and explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44476	40 seconds of MP time was used. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44477	Article 17(5) refers to the accreditation procedure, as well as the whole of this chapter. It says that the decision to suspend accreditation is taken for the longest time in six months. The position of the SRS is that the six-month deadline must be replaced by the words "until the suspension is removed". The amendment is indeed a legal and technical order and it would be good to accept that this Article 17 would contribute to making the law clear and applicable at all and to avoid abuses in the application of this law, i.e. in particular Article 17. It is not a good explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which says the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the removal of the reason for the suspension, as the body's obligation to assess compliance with which accreditation has been suspended, cannot last indefinitely. Now this is really worth the attention. It says – already after the expiry of the suspension, a decision has been taken to abolish accreditation or suspension should the conformity assessment body remove the deficiencies which were the reason for the suspension. If by chance what it says in the government's explanation of why our amendment was in the position of Article 5, then we would have no reason to submit the amendment. You, in article 17, have avoided explaining this in this way, have already left the possibility of absolute abuse, arguing that it is enough to say that the decision to suspend accreditation is made for the longest six months. Of course, a suspension of accreditation occurs when it is established that certain conditions are not met or that something that was once within the conditions that had been met has changed, etc. You say the decision to suspend accreditation will be made within six months. What if the reasons that caused the suspension were not removed? You didn't say that in law. It's not enough to tell us in an explanation. This argument is being cast, it doesn't mean anything. So, Ministers, in order for the legal and technical regulation and the real intentions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do so as it stands in the light of this explanation of why you do not accept our amendment, it would really be good to accept this amendment in order for the law to look like a law, or Article 17, to look like a legal provision and to avoid any abuse in its application.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44478	A minute and 10 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 17. The proposal for a law on accreditation, i.e. a proposal for a quality control law, as proposed by the SNS, is thus poorly written and contrary to some basic legal principles that we have tried to correct this article as much as possible. Therefore, Article 17(2) requires that supervision be carried out in accordance with the rules of accreditation which, according to Article 8. The bill was to bring the accreditation body to Serbia. However, from the point of view of law, such a solution is extremely unacceptable because supervision must only be established by a special law. I don't think any authority or public authority holder can sign their own powers. In paragraphs 2 and 3, the so-called ‘supervised’ is replaced by the following: The suspension that the legislator of this law did not seem to know, that officially in our law it is not even known, but it is a simple jargon. As if you didn't want to or didn't know to use our native Serbian language and define this procedure as a temporary confiscation of power, because the suspension does not exist. In paragraph 4, you have prescribed that accreditation can be suspended or suspended due to, imagine, serious breach of obligations. First of all, I have to realize that the term "fraction" is wrong because what I know from the domain of law, as a graduate engineer, that rightly there is only a violation of the law, not a violation of obligations, because obligations are primarily a moral category, not a legal one. In doing so, I have to ask the question – who can determine and who determine whether the breach of obligations is serious or not? What is the limit between serious and non-serious breach of obligations? In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, you stated that the amendment is not accepted for the reason it is essential and termologically contrary to the requirements of the Serbian standard. I would really like you to quote to me what members of the Serbian standard there are suspensions or serious or non-serious violations of obligations. The only thing that I think is uncontested here is that this bill is so formalized, so unserious, it represents a disgrace to both the writer and the legislator of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44480	45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44481	We have one innovation we failed to do when the Rules of Procedure was made new and the Law on the Assembly. I think we really should have introduced a provision to amend the laws proposed by the G17 party, but that they would certainly be rejected. We should have brought that into the Rules of Procedure, just so we know, because if someone doesn't know what law it is, or who's the legislator of some law, when all amendments are rejected, make sure it's a proposal from the G17 party, because the practice we have here two years old is that there are no smart ones outside that party who did their laws. What's the matter? Which is why the amendment to article 18 defusssssssssssssssssssed that high sense and that the King is the only one who's right. Article 18 is written, where it says - at the request of an accredited body for the assessment of conformity, accreditation may be renewed according to the same procedure under which it is assigned. Article 2 — if, after the procedure for the renewal of accreditation is implemented, it is established that the applicant fulfils the requirements of Article 15(1) of this Act, reference to another member is allowed, the decision to renew accreditation shall be decided and issue a certificate. It's not a dispute. Then it's attitude three. — where, following the procedure for the renewal of accreditation, it is established that the applicant does not comply with the requirements of Article 15(1) of this Act, the ATS shall decide not to renew accreditation. As you can see, the three statements are written saying that accreditation is being renewed according to the same procedure as it is being carried out. When the condition laid down in Article 15(1) is fulfilled, it shall be renewed. When these conditions are not met, accreditation is not renewed. We are submitting the amendment, as the Progressive Group of Serbia, where we say - a request for an extension of the importance of the assurance of the conditions for the assessment of compliance is submitted at least two months before the expiry of the importance, as this is necessary and the extension of the importance is carried out in the procedure prescribed for the issue. This simplified, simple Serbian language and this here complicated repetition of one and the same words and conditions you, in your explanation for the refusal of amendments, cite as a fundamental and terminology contrary to the requirements of Serbian SRPS ISO/IEC 17011. If it wasn't funny, I could really say, you're right, you're the best, you're the smartest. But this way of refusing the amendment simply speaks of the self-love of one who submits such an amendment, spends too much of his word, paper and reasoning, and the essential thing does not say, within which time someone is obliged to apply for a renewal of accreditation. I think this amendment was necessary to adopt.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44482	The word has the deputy president of the G 17 Plus Group, Mr. Senic Vlajko, based on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44483	Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, we have the opportunity every day to hear, for reasons unknown to me, the fixation of one parliamentary political party to another parliamentary political party and we in this Parliament at any time for the past two years, and we will do so until the end of this Parliament's term, we will try and make sure that the spirit of parliamentaryism is something that is above the personal relations of hate and poison arrows, which surely cannot contribute to better quality of the law, and that is what Serbian citizens should be most interested in, and that is what our job is and why we are as peoples MPs paid, and I would say to the citizens of Serbia. In different ways over the past period, I've been trying to respond to that kind of roll call, and however you try to communicate the results, they're always the same. I'm sorry that it is, and I'm sorry that one of the most recent political parties, created from an older political party, talking about how different it is and that it has changed and that these people have left because they are primitive, uncultural and do not know that they treat their political opponents, insult them, etc. In the past year or as long as it takes, I don't see that the language used by this new political party differs from what their predecessors, whose part they were accused of. I have no way, trying to get down to the lowest possible level for me, to talk and communicate in that way, and in any case, it is not worth wasting time, energy and money for the Serbian citizens to be unconditionally replicating for every such thing. We will continue to act as a normal and civilized parliamentary group, trying to fight with arguments for our laws, for our voters and for the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44484	The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44485	I don't see how I can understand that a comment on the amendment can be defined by hate. I haven't heard that my colleague denied anything from the allegations dedicated to the amendment, I'm talking about the law, not that I haven't used any rude word, but I never use it. I'm talking about the quality of the law and the approach of a party here who never allows the amendment to improve the law that enters the assembly procedure. Stanographic notes, adopted amendments, and laws that are in force, which do a lot of good, are evidence of that. Here's another one. Article 19 and Amendment 19 The Serbian Progressive Parties reads – an appeal against the Agency's acts can be made to the ministry responsible for standardisation operations within 15 days of the delivery day. The procedure before the Agency, which is not governed by this law, shall apply the provisions of the laws governing the general administrative procedure. I noticed a little while ago that your associates were wondering why we persistently and consistently call this institution a public agency, but we have been doing so consistently since the 1st amendment, referring to its true legal status, which was the only possible right, given the action it would carry out and given the integrity of Serbia's legal system and the consistent law governing this area. So, this is not an accident and it's completely deliberate all the time we're constantly calling the public agency, but what's most controversial in this law is one permanent violation of the right to two-stage protection of the right of those who are in front of this body. Let me remind you of another law that was authored by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic, when we discussed reducing the number of employees, i.e. the maximum number of employees in the state administration. This inability for one who gets fired, who was once assessed by a poor assessment and was given a solution, without the right to appeal, even though 25 years earlier was evaluated by the best grades for work and contributions, had no right to appeal, as is not the case here. You know what he's up to? In a lengthy court procedure, in which procedures last for years, that without means of living, without pay, not thinking about how this fired man will live, whether it's a pregnant woman on pregnancy, he has no right to complain and prove that he's damaged. This type of two-degree suspension has also been carried out here in this law, where it is the most direct member of 216. The law on administrative procedure, where the right to a second degree is prescribed, where it is necessary to determine the jurisdiction of the authority which resolved in the first degree and we are just prescribing an amendment to such jurisdiction. It is outrageous and legally inadmissible that the commission, listen to me, please, within the agency itself, we call your institution, which is educated by the board of directors, all within the circle of one and the same body, decides by appeal. Is it possible that someone appears at the same time in a double role, as you predicted here? I have another question based on the law, not on hate, I don't know how to hate, my parents didn't raise me like that, and I didn't inherit it by my genes. You are saying that experts, i.e. experts, will find themselves not to comment on it, and the Law on State Administration of Article 84 states that for the affairs of the state administration and the conduct of the administrative procedure, there must be two stages of appeal for those who are damaged and only authorised officials with high professional training can do so. Do I have to prove that experts, and if someone declares them, they're not civil servants, or is someone going to deny me, or is that somewhere that says they're going to be? Simply, an expert can give an advisory opinion, they can write you laws, like that bankruptcy law, but they can't conduct administrative proceedings. So, regardless of the legal problems prescribed by the State Administration Act, and in Article 84, the question arises where people's expertise is to decide in a second-degree administrative procedure. It's exactly the opposite of what we were talking about here the other day. So, for the President of the Competition Protection Commission, you set up a man, a person who has dealt with judicial affairs, knows nothing about trade policy and economics, what is the subject of decision-making, but is explained by the choice of experience in judgment, because in the proceedings the decisions of the Commission have been dropped, because they were not legally well-oiled and were not based on the law. These are arguments, facts, these are your failures. This is a desire for the discretionary rights of experts, whose knowledge is assessed by someone else, and competence and skills, to decide elsewhere, and not in accordance with the Law on State Administration, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, which would have to provide for those who were damaged by the decisions of this Commission, or this authority to have legal protection, because that is what the Constitution guarantees. Please take this remark seriously, and if you want the Constitutional Court not to get another law that it will have to deal with, correct this remark.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44486	You want from the time of the parliamentary group or authorized? Okay, from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mrs. Gordana Pop Lazic. Under this amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44487	Mr. President, I appeal to article 107 - the dignity of the National Assembly, which we are all obliged to guard. I would like to address all MPs and ask the MPs to do in each other's accounts, which are allowed, it is political accounts, do not interfere with the SRS, and do not qualify the SRS as a party who is willing to do anything that destroys dignity and the National Assembly and other institutions, because we have never done that, nor have we shown our opinion on the street and have caused disorder, nor have we ever done anything in the National Assembly that could humiliate this home. Mr. Vlajko Senić has sent some, it seems to me, inappropriate criticisms at the expense of the SRS, wishing in this way to qualify a colleague who spoke before him, although it is an illegal MP and you all know it well, you created them yourself and now you have to suffer to call you whatever they want and that you are "Gay 17" and that you are like this and like this. You deal with them, we don't have anything to do with them, we've dealt with them a long time ago. They're not representatives of the people for us, and they're only here because you let them sit there. Of course, some of the next elections will show who the people want in the National Assembly, is it G17, is it SRS, DS, but I am convinced that they will realize that once a traitor – always a traitor, and that those who are on the European path and who believe that Europe has no alternative cannot be representatives of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44488	No damage to the dignity of the National Assembly. I listened very carefully to what Mr. Senic said and he did not mention in any single word an explicit, explicit SRS, but from the presentation, I accept, it could conclude who he meant by that occasion. I agree that elections are what solves the composition, the structure of this Parliament. Until then, we are who we are and where we are, and since you have now mentioned by the name of Mr Senic, I give him my word based on the replica and I ask that we respect the 107th article that binds us to respect dignity. I'm sorry, I didn't notice, Mrs. Tabakovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44489	I'll be very brief. Members 103 and 107, the dignity of the National Assembly has been destroyed. One small correction, no one from the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary party, G17, has called it what Mrs Pop Lazic did. Please keep it recorded in the stenogram. I have arguments, I don't need to insult anyone and give them names, I have my legal best man. What I want to say to Mr Senic, when he thought of the youngest party and the smallest one, he probably meant the United Regions of Serbia created from G17 or who, but I really don't care, my theme is the law and better life of Serbian citizens, and the rest of them should deal with what they know and know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44490	Thank you, but no injured member 103 or 107. The full name of the party sitting in this parliament is the political party G17 plus. Mr. Senic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44491	If that's how you understood me, I apologize. It's not hard for me to apologize at the National Assembly. I had no intention of insulting the SRS, I was just talking about how the MPs, who were part of the SRS, justified their departure from you, so I pulled the parallel and said I didn't see, if you are who they say you are, that they are different today. It doesn't matter, it's a clear thing. We never intend to insult anyone or talk like that. As for Mrs. Jorgovanka Tabakovic's findings, for her information and citizens' information, the United regions of Serbia are one political project that is not yet a political party and you have no reason to worry. You're still the youngest political party. I believe that in some future period, you will also have the opportunity to measure your strength with other political parties and with the United Regions of Serbia in the next elections. How can anyone pass, of course, that final word will give citizens to Serbia, but I think that we should all contribute, after 10 years of democratic change, to making the atmosphere in Serbia, at least in parliament, different, because we all here represent the citizens of Serbia and our obligation is to speak in a way similar to the National Assembly. Expect that we will certainly do so in the coming period, regardless of how other political parties or other MPs in the Assembly have a relationship with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44492	The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that for the past few years we've been creating a growing number of institutions, an increasing number of bodies, and it's not by chance, that politics and attempts to control these bodies often and some independent regulatory bodies, as easily as possible. Thanks to such behavior by the executive authority, we have a very poor coordination between these bodies, and they often do not agree. If we are to be honest, our national character is vanity and how recognizable and that is one of the reasons why we have defined ourselves to submit this amendment, and it is that some basic elements of infrastructure are quality, accreditation and standards. It would be perfectly normal and logical for an institution, which oversees the adoption of standards, to oversee at the same time and jobs in the field of accreditation. We have proposed, by our amendment, that the ministry that is responsible for standards and accreditation and that we have much better coordination when it comes to supervision, because surveillance is very important in general in our society, but very important in this institution, it is important in this sense that this institution is not only for our internal market, intended for Serbia's space alone, but to gain some international importance, to be accepted as one agency that has that weight. In this way, not only the reputation of our country, but also the reputation of our economy and the perspective of our economy would be much better, and therefore we have been identified, because of the efficiency, efficiency in controlling this amendment, and I am sorry that there was no understanding and was not accepted by the Government and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44494	National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Minister, is there anything you'd like to say before I conclude my search for the bill? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44495	I'd just like to repeat what I said and at the end of the principle debate in principle. This is about a law that is precise, clear, summed up and that surrounds legislation that needs to ensure that there are no barriers to trade, which protects products and their quality, above all to protect citizens. The right to tell you, I was convinced, despite the fact that most of the debate has passed with a very constructive tone and with the best intentions of making the law as good as possible, which is, of course, the wish of each of us in this assembly, that this debate, and even more lively and quality, was led on board and that the main job was finished there. Obviously, I don't have enough congregation experience. I thank you, first of all, for the constructive and well-intentioned work that has been carried out from most of your discussions. I am sure that you will be pleased when we adopt this law, which is the last condition for the legislation for this area to be clearly written, not to be written, but to help all of us as consumers of goods and services in the Republic of Serbia to be safer and safer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44496	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Now, on the basis of article 87, I'm setting a break and we'll continue our work at 1:30, with a debate on the Consumer Protection Bill. Thank you. [[After break – 13:45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CONSUMER’S PROTECTION LAW (Statificities) pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, has called for the search in particulars, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure, to attend also Ljiljana Stankovic, Dusan Protic and Nebojsa Lazarevic, Assistant Minister of Trade and Services. You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popović, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Masić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pošurić, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić, Milan Dimitrijević, Nikola Lazić, Marina Toman, Milatan Buha, Dragan Ševanovic, Dragan Stevanović, Tomić, Tomić Živić, Dragarić Žilić Žilić, Dragić, Mirić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Milić, Milić, Mirić, Mil. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Before the move to search the bill, I remind you that MP Vladan Jeremic has writtenly withdrawn the amendment to Article 86. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44498	Dear Chairman, I will use the time of the parliamentary group, I would just like to note that Parliament's degradation continues. The Committee has not been sitting on amendments. You have read the government's authorised representatives, there is Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic, which is not disputed, but you will agree that this is not the right person to defend this law, especially in this detailed section when it comes to amendments. I really can't understand, if you've changed the Rules of Procedure and said that the focus of work will be on committees, then the board doesn't meet because there's no quorum, and you've changed the Rules of Procedure so you have a majority, so the quorum wasn't because of you. Even I came from the opposition, but I wasn't enough to give the quorum. I really don't think this makes any sense. This is an important law. This concerns all citizens, and minors, because they are consumers too. We have a Minister of Health sitting down. I don't know what Minister Mrkonjic would do. There is no Minister Milosavljevic, who was criticised by the party's president on the main committee, whether he is now in awe, in any case, the degradation of parliament from the ruling majority continues, and this morning, Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, who does not, says it is not nice for the media to invent, and invent really, that we are taking some money, and that only today when Mr. Micunovic appeared on the list, and until then she did not react. It's all what's going on and what I said absolutely doesn't contribute to the reputation of this house, or to fix the laws. I'm not getting into the fact that the government has rejected all the amendments to the opposition, especially those amendments sought by consumer associations, but now I'm just talking about procedure. There will be opportunities to explain to Mr Milosavljevic about consumer loans. We'll see what he says about why the government didn't accept it, but I am really protesting this humiliation of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44499	Thank you, sir. I'll stay. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44500	Article 4 introduces into the law what we are later on by amendment, which I will talk about when the time comes, we want to achieve, which is to insert our head on consumer loans, i.e. to respect the end of the European Directive. The unmistakable explanation given to us both on the Committee and last time in the principle debate by Mr Milosavljevic, who is not here, is unacceptable for us. We believe that the National Bank should do its job, which is to control the work of banks, when it comes to consumers taking consumer loans, whether from banks or from trade chains, were from producers. We think this matter must be found in this law. It is not acceptable for us to explain that this will be regulated by the law of the National Bank. Practices, European directives and conventions say that people who take loans from any, financial institutions or trade - are consumers, and therefore belong to them in this law. The law should regulate that you can return the goods within 15 days without explanation; and money is a commodity, and interest is its price, and so, that goods and consumer rights in that segment should be resolved by this law. That is why this amendment that we are proposing is the introduction of this chapter that comes later. Since you have not accepted this amendment, since the government has accepted only two technical amendments, it is clear that you will not accept the whole head, which speaks of consumer loans. I feel a little stupid to ask Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, why didn't you accept? Imagine tomorrow, Mr. Novakovic, you succumb to public service blackmail to take as much money as he needs from his budget, and there's no transmission. Imagine what this debate will be, a sitting minister who objectively has nothing to do with matter -- I'm talking about it because of the viewers, not you or Mr. Milosavljevic, it's an honor to have him sitting here -- but if there's no transmission, we'll really feel pretty uncomfortable if that happens. This is how we feel uncomfortable. So, when we don't respect ourselves as a parliament for nothing, someone will respect us. It will be written about what Mrs. Kolundzija was protesting today, and it will not be written, for example, about the $750 stay of Vuk Jeremic, which is his favorite, I don't even know what it's called the hotel or what it's called for for breakfast or dinner, but simply what's going on right won't come out of the institutions in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44501	One minute and twenty seconds have been used by an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44502	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind you of one fact, and that this consumer law has arrived in the Assembly to be discussed by an urgent procedure. So it hastened again with this law, and today when we are discussing in particular the amendments that have been submitted to improve this law, it is happening that we do not have a competent minister, a minister who is supposed to defend the government's views on this law, the particulars of the amendments submitted, but we have a health minister present. You'll allow me, I really appreciate the Minister of Health, I appreciate that function, and I assume that man is very professional in his calling. However, it is a specific matter, such as trade, or consumer rights, which is a little further from what is in the power of the health minister. Why is it important to have one expert present here, one expert who has certain competences regarding the subject of consumers? It is important for this reason that these amendments submitted by us LDP MPs point to a fundamental problem of the bill's proposal, which leaves out very important areas, such as consumer loans, far beyond ordinary bank loans. One part is left out, one segment of consumption related to those general economic services, such as telecommunications, electricity, gas, utility and the like, of exceptional importance for citizens' existence. So these two areas are left out, so the question is why is this law, what's the big hurry with this law? Our amendments apply to these areas, to improve the law-based amendments, to regulate the area of these loans, as well as to the area of these specific services of exceptional social importance. Why does it matter? It is important for this reason (because today's citizen of Serbia and how it depends on consumer loans, not strictly on bank loans, but on consumer loans, through which he can realise his existence. Without credit, with such purchasing power, citizens will hardly be able to make it through this autumn and winter and the coming years of transition at all, given that Serbia is still a country in transition. As for these specific services of general economic importance, I think we can agree that it is the monopolies that and how they threaten the provision of these services and the right protection of consumers. For this reason, we in the LDP already in the debate have pointed out in principle that we are ready to support the law in the event that our amendments are met, or accept our amendments regarding these two essential proposals by our party. However, we cannot support the law unless the amendments are adopted. It was obviously the government's opinion that our amendments should not be adopted. So the law will remain in the original edition of what it looked like. In the debate, the minister stated in principle why he felt that such a bill, as submitted, was quite correct, and why it was so hasty with the law that the NBS did not wait, or in the right sense, co-operated with the NBS on consumer loans. Apparently, they could not agree on when the NBS would consider consumer loans and could not agree to sit down certain authorised persons and make common proposals regarding the regulation of consumer loans. I would remind you that the NBS is the institution of this state of Serbia, that the Serbian government is one branch of the government of this Serbia. Who will cooperate if not the ministers of the government and the people of the NBS? What can we expect from anyone in this country if we can't achieve co-operation between the governor and the ministers? You will allow it to be very important to co-operate both if the subject is – consumer law, and if it is contained in this law of such exceptional importance for each citizen of Serbia. So we find it really unserious to let go of a law like this by emergency procedure. It is unserious in this way to approach the work on this law as the government did and its resolute minister, the minister of trade. We cannot be satisfied with the fact that possibly the NBS will approach the draft consumer credit law and will make sure that it agrees with the general principles of this consumer protection law. I think it's just one promise, and I think it's really enough promises made to the citizens of Serbia regarding everything and everything, and that this government doesn't have enough credit anymore for citizens to believe in a simple promise. I would also like to remind you of the fact that in 2008, imports of single quantities of milk powder are allowed. Thousands of tons of milk powder has been imported. This resulted in a milk shortage in 2010. Then what's going on? Again, these milk consumers are most endangered, and this is again the Secretary of Trade's portfolio, which was the portfolio of the then Minister of Agriculture. Here's how it actually works out for us, any problem that comes up. Ad hoc is getting rid of it. It is resolved by the fact that certain partial interests are forced, so if these interests ultimately lead to market collapse, no one is responsible, no one is guilty, and when we LDP insist that consumer protection be approached seriously and responsibly, in that case the Minister of Trade does not appear in the discussion in particular, and the law is discussed in a quick manner. In the end, he'll probably adopt. That's normal. It's a democratic procedure that most always have power. Unfortunately, we also have this basic democratic principle that is interpreted as being so radically interpreted. The only thing that matters is that there is a majority, not that contained in that regulation that most have voted on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44503	Seven minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44504	The time I'm going to overstep by amendment will be denied by the time of power, not by the time of the parliamentary group. The first amendment that we have submitted to the consumer protection law is considered essential. Given that this law is called - consumer protection law, we did not like the definition that you have given in the law, not because we do not like the proposer or anything, but because at point 25) the damage suffered by the consumer due to certain behaviour of the manufacturer, i.e. the seller as defined - the damage is (I read the legal solution), in terms of the provisions of this law governing the responsibility of the manufacturer of things with lack, resulting in death or physical injury, as well as the resulting destruction or damage to some part of the property usually used for personal use or consumption. Our amendment says that this point 25 should change and that it now reads as in Article 155. The Law on Liabilities – that the damage is the reduction of someone's property (ordinary damage) and the prevention of its increase (i.e. the incentive of benefit), as well as the application of other physical or mental pain or fear (non-material damage). The narrow term that you use in the law, define and base everything else on it is, firstly, a narrow term that is not used in any other law and cannot be determined. Tell me, please, who will determine what is usually used by the consumer as their property for personal use or consumption? What is the accuracy of the law that uses attributes – usually used. I usually use something for personal consumption. You have quite different habits, education, culture, etc. Is that a general rule that you, a citizen, a consumer, who comes to some counter or needs to exercise some right, treat a ping-pong ball, where you always take responsibility from yourself to someone else who needs to settle the criteria, to interpret the rule, to determine exactly what the concept means, and that's not the case only in this law, but in this law it's unacceptable. This law is not a law on the protection of sellers who sell goods with shortages. This is a consumer protection law that suffers damage and that damage must be defined in accordance with the Bond Relations Act so that it can be sought in a court procedure and that it can be compensated. What else is the purpose of this law? The law on bond relations is a general law. According to everyone, one of the better laws we have. This is Lex specialise law. He will question, derrogate, tell the lawyers, this general law, where a man has the right to seek damage, precisely defined when it comes to it. For example, I will repeat from the late hours the situation from the debate in principle. A man buys an electric stove and takes it into a family building with four apartments. There are three other separate households, two brothers, another sister and that man with the family. Because of the failure of the product, the installation in the entire house burns down. Will this electric stove be treated as a thing for its personal use, ordinary or unusual? Will he be treated as a thing for mutual use and will he be able to seek damage, he as a buyer for himself and all others, or will he only be able to seek the damage that has been done in part, or in his apartment, but that is not all the damage? I'm not talking, and we need to talk about that part of immaterial damage, fear and benefits. For example, a man deals with something that is related to the operation of the installation or works on a computer, he lost two important engagements which he could not complete some work that was related to the work on the computer and burned down the installation. There are laws, my dear gentlemen, whose faults, in terms of imperfect definition of failure to determine something precise, are not seen immediately. That is why many of us yesterday on the amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system made fewer objections to the part that spoke about fiscal responsibility, because we will only see how these descriptive estimates of proper fiscal policy conduct should be applied. But there are laws, like this one, whose shortcomings are visible at the moment of adoption. And this kind of uncertainty isn't just a reflection of the surface. I can't find a gentler word for what, for example, an undefined deadline in the law. Whoever defines it usually uses it and does not say what it means - usually. Usually in the town of Novi Sad or usually in Kosovo, or usually in my Vučitrn. What's that usually? It's not superficiality, it's just a practice not to allow those on whose behalf you're allegedly passing the law to exercise your right to compensation by inactivating, unconscious actions or dishonest actions that the seller makes to one of us as a consumer. I really don't see any reason to always protect someone else, but someone whose name and benefit we do everything for. I ask you once again to consider adopting the amendments we have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44505	Five minutes of authorized representative time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44506	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the problem that has been going backwards for years and has contributed to the greatest growth of public spending in Serbia is the establishment of various bodies – agencies, commissions and councils. We've talked more than once about duplicating jurisdiction, creating an organ with too many employees. I was resented yesterday, but that reaction itself means I was right and it is. Instead of all jobs being done within individual sectors of competent ministries, new, parallel bodies are formed, with the reason that it is necessary to establish this very independent body, mostly because it meets some requirement that the EU has put ahead of Serbia on the road to accession. That independent body then has a director, deputy director, several sector managers, board of directors and, when you look at it, you realize how much money from the budget is needed for the existence of such a body. I'm not going to say what I said before, and it's about huge amounts that are in the name of profit and compensation paid to the managers of these bodies. Whenever, when we set up a public agency, we said that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia did not know such an authority, or organisation, the answer was again the EU and its standards. Because public agencies do not recognise the Constitution, they cannot be the competent authority. On this basis, this amendment, which provides for the removal from the definition of the competent authority of a public agency, such as the competent authority, in which the taking of appropriate consumer protection measures in relation to the provision of services of general interest remains, in accordance with the powers laid down by these and other laws, a ministry defined as the competent authority of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44507	30 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44508	At first, on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I would like to express my regret that the competent minister is not present during the debate on this legislative proposal, as well as the fact that we do not have the opinion of the committee responsible. During the principle debate, it has been pointed out on several occasions that the matter of consumer protection is in dynamic development, which means that the regulation in this area should be constantly monitored and timely updated. Following the 2005 legislative regulation, we have a new proposal on the agenda that should modernise and fully improve consumer protection. According to the minister's explanation, this law provides a more favourable position for consumers, and imposes obligations on traders. I don't think that's the most awkward formulation, because besides being a liability, it's also a kind of time to standardize services. This could also contribute to raising the level of competitiveness in the long run. This amendment is precisely because it defines that in any event a trader must make it clear that the sale price of goods, the unit price of goods, services, the price per unit of time and the additional costs for providing services, and that this law must not settle it differently.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44509	The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Otto Kishmarton has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44510	Dear fellow Members of the People, and we have several amendments to this law, and the amendment to Article 9, is just one small addition to an existing member and I do not understand why it is not accepted. In fact, the current Article 9 reads this – the trader is obliged to make up a price list or a service tariff, which is quite normal, acceptable and fine. It's not just about that customer service or the buyer, it's about, of course, yourself. The second point of view here says – the price list or tariff services referred to in Article 1, the trader is obliged to point out in the window, i.e. in the business premises or elsewhere where the service is offered. Our proposal was to add the words "in a visible place" after the words "that is. " Namely, that price list, which should be highlighted in the shop and in the business room, should be prominent in a visible place. This supplement, so that the price list of services or prices of goods is exposed that the customer or user of services can see it, will not bother the trader or the consumer. Since the amendment has not been accepted, and I say once again, it does not bother the buyer, even the benefit, even the trader who works in that store is responsible for seeing these prices, the only thing that bothers our government. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44511	The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the 9th Amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44512	Article 12. The proposal for a consumer protection law refers to catering facilities, and in point 3 of the point 3 of point 3 of the question is about food and drink prices, so among other things, the formulation of the bill's promoter is the following: food and drink sales prices in pricers must be made available to consumers in a sufficient number of copies and in places where consumers are served. Look, the basic objection of the SRS and my amendment is that the formulations in the law correspond to the real life and that they are not general, that they are clear, that they are decadent. In this case, you've used a linguistic formulation that doesn't match the real state and the suggestion is to delete it. You said here - in a sufficient number of copies. What does it mean – in sufficient numbers of copies? The legislator must make it clear and decadent – is one copy quite sufficient, is that two, is that five, is that seven? This all depends on the circumstances in which these services are provided. The legislator must be clear. The formulation of a sentence, the linguistic structure of a sentence, must be clear. It can't be like what you've listed here in enough samples. With the amendment, we tried to narrow that sentence down to that framework which, in the SRS' view, would meet the needs of hospitality. You didn't accept that. It's the government's fault and the law-proposer himself again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44513	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The government has accepted this amendment. The word is from the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44514	This is one of the two amendments accepted from a total of 121 amendments submitted to this legislative proposal. This accepted amendment actually defines and explains the way in which the identity of the trader is determined, because that segment in the legislative proposal is not sufficiently clearly formulated, which is actually the data of the trader relevant in the consumer protection process itself. This is important, but this amendment has more character in technical text repairs. On the other hand, the DSS parliamentary group would be much more pleased if a whole series of amendments were accepted regarding consumer loans, which my colleagues will also talk about later. It's a pretty ambitious idea that the NBS, with all the problems it's currently in, could effectively solve this area without any influence on the side. This should have been regulated by this law, because otherwise, citizens continue to leave themselves at the will of lenders, depending on the bank to the bank, for a yet undefined period of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44515	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44516	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 16 refers to the obligation to notify the contract at**, meaning that the trader's duty in a clear and understandable way to inform customers of the product being offered, which is the subject of the contract. What the SNS has disturbed is the fact that a clear and understandable way doesn't mean that this notice has to be true. We have tried to introduce in our amendment the principle of security and honesty, meaning, in a safe and fair way, to inform customers about the product itself and we regret that the Government in an explanation of why this amendment refuses to identify security and honesty with clarity and understanding of the notification. We think it's two completely different approaches, quite different concepts, if you will. Also, this principle – the principle of security and honesty – has been incorporated into many European directives when it comes to consumer protection, and it seems to us that in this part, this regulation has been designed in a very easy way, given that the level of consumer protection in Serbia is at a very low level, that we are at the beginning of Europe and that so far there has been no serious political will. Here, we have a new law, I guess there will be a little more political will and a desire to devote ourselves to consumers and that consumers are much more informed, but if they are not informed in a fair and safe way, then I don't know what that information is for. I'm sorry, once again, that you haven't heard of this amendment, because I think it's quite logical, and it would be quite acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44517	Mr. Arsic answered his word. He's got 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44518	From the MP's group? (President: Yes. Then I wouldn't do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44519	There's 30 seconds left. Thank you. The same text was submitted to Article 20 of the amendment by MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and together Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44520	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 20. The bill refers to the concept of unfair business. In order to make this amendment more clear, I will read Article 4, first of all: "business that threatens to significantly disrupt the economic behaviour of clearly defined consumer groups, which because of their mental or physical weakness, age or lack of thought, are particularly sensitive to that type of business or to give the product, provided that the trader can be expected to do so, is assessed according to the average member of that consumer group". Article 5 of which is now set out in this amendment: "The provisions of Section 4 of this Article do not apply to cases of normal and permitted advertising which entail and make excessive statements or statements that should not be taken literally". What I just read is one of the worst provisions of the bill. First of all, this insults the dignity of the members of the groups to which the provisions apply, but insults and intelligence of each consumer. The question is raised, who is relevant to decide which statement is exaggerated in advertising and which statements should not be taken literally and which should be taken. In advertising, any statement given must be correct, otherwise such advertising should be qualified as unfair business. That is the purpose of submitting this amendment. The argument that came from the government at least could be said to have been a misunderstanding. Why doesn't the government accept this amendment? It does not accept this part of unfair business as well as business practice, i.e. abolishing advertising. The objective of the amendment was not to abolish advertising, but to define that it is not allowed to make excessive statements or statements that should not be taken literally. So, in advertising, every statement given must be true, and that is what was the aim of submitting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44521	The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44522	I submitted the same amendment to the same article and to the same position as my colleague from the SRS. We propose to delete Article 5's stance on what is the concept of unfair business. My colleague read the previous, fourth attitude, which I read five times, and still everything else is unclear; I can think of when an average consumer, who wants to get to know his rights in detail, takes this law into his hands and tries to interpret it. As with the DSS MPs, I have suggested that Article 5 be deleted, because this member should also prevent advertising, and you are in fact calling and asking consumers not to take statements literally and that there may be exaggeration. In doing so, who is the one who can set the limit on what is too excessive or what is less excessive, so it is allowed. That's one thing. The second thing, I am now angry as a national MP because you have given one explanation for the amendment submitted by my colleague Dimitrijevic, and that is where you expressed your opinion which is why you cannot accept this amendment, and the exact same amendment, to the same article, to the same position, which reads in Article 20(5), is deleted. In the light of our amendment, you say – the amendment is not accepted for reasons of legal and technical failure. So, two of the exact same amendments, and you have an explanation for one group like that, and for the DSS and its MPs, you have a message that we can't write the amendments and that you refused because of legal and technical failure. Of course, there are no experts here to write amendments and it shouldn't be, because MPs are different professions, but you have to admit that we're all consumers, so we think we're expert on this law, and it's possible that sometimes something is being stolen and that it's technically wrong. I consulted with the people in our technical service, because when the amendment is technically incorrect they return it to us and tell us to fix that mistake. We do it, and then you don't have to do it. Of course, you can have a different opinion, because you observe the whole of the law, you know whether any amendments can be accepted or not. Why did you say that the amendment submitted by the DSS MPs was legally and technically incorrect and that you gave a completely different answer to the MP from the other parliamentary group? I've seen this in a few more places. I know you had a huge number of amendments in a short time, and you probably shared it, so then you put it together. This is so insulting to intelligence. It's possible that sometimes we make a mistake in writing the amendments, but it's not nice when we see black on white that there's some kind of discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44523	Just tell me, a minute and 40 seconds, he's on time for an authorised representative? Okay, thanks. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44524	I claim that the DSS MPs and how they can legally and technically write the laws and these amendments, because they write them every day on a very short period of time, because that's how you give the laws, and we're very expert in writing them properly. There's no point in talking about discrimination, there's no Minister Ciplic here, but he's not a trade minister either, so we need to talk about the law. Article 20 paragraph 8 reads: "The unfair business also lists the violation of the consumer's obligation to notify his rights in relation to human use medical products; remote financial services; joint investment in transferable securities; insurance intervention; life insurance and other types of direct insurance; sale of financial instruments; prospectus published in the event of a public offer of securities of value or their acceptance of trading, in accordance with the laws governing those areas". We added another area, we put that point, that is, we turned your point into a decimal point and added – the area of consumer credit. We felt it was very important to introduce the area of consumer credit into this law. We do not understand why, after two years, how long the public debate lasted, where you announced that this law would regulate the area of financial business, i.e. the very relationship of consumers with financial institutions and banks, as well as the areas of consumer credit, which is somewhat wider than bank loans, have given up. Which is why you gave up on that intention, and after two years of warning the public and getting to know that it is one of the biggest newspapers and it should certainly be something that stands in the law, because Serbia does not have a regulation that would apply to this area. However, you gave up on only one NBS request, and we don't know why, because the NBS says -- well, we're going to make a new law that will regulate this area, we don't know when that law will be. In the principle debate, I said that these two things are not directly related, that we have laws that concern other areas, so I listed trade or tourism, and here you regulate the area of consumer protection in those areas. So we also felt that it was very important for you to bring in consumer loans here and regulate that question definitely, because until it's regulated, the banks will be able to unilaterally change the terms of credit, change certain parts of the contract, they will be able to raise interest without agreeing with clients. So, Serbian citizens will be robbed, will not have the same treatment as in the countries from which banks come, but will be in a humiliating position in Serbia, or there will be major robberies.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44525	A minute of Parliament time. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44526	So, Mr. Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, you should know one thing about the credit situation affecting the mental health of the Serbian population. If a country happens to have a 4.5 per cent growth rate over a year, it means that something is happening in that country, it means that those people who took the loans cannot service them properly, but are looking for additional loans to refinance already taken credits. You'll admit it's burdensome. For every normal man, that was burdensome. Instead of the state reacting to the rule of law, the state doesn't care about that. What's the difference between those local criminals who give interest to money with a variable interest rate, how can anyone think of it, and a country like this? It doesn't make any difference. Therefore, the consumer is left to be used in one criminal way by the state and to take away its money. That's the essence of the policy you're running.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44527	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44528	The Serbian Radical Party has tried with 50 amendments, which we have prepared for this law, to complete in a normative sense everything that we think is problematic in this law. Article 26 speaks of special protection of minors. Here's how the bill promoter, although the title says it's special protection for minors, goes with a provision that doesn't protect minors. I will read the provision of Article 26(2). "In the event of a suspicion that the consumer is a person under 18 years old, the trader is not obliged to sell or serve an alcoholic drink, or a tobacco product, until the consumer allows the trader to see into a valid ID card, passport or driver's license." Why do we feel that the legislator did not act in spirit with what is stated in this article’s head? Because he went with a provision that was of a declarative nature. The provisions of the declaratory nature are not binding. So we don't protect underage faces. What did we suggest? We suggested that instead of "the trader is not obliged" a provision: "the merchant is forbidden". It's an imperative provision. We can divide the legislation into two segments: one is imperative and the other is declarative. In this case, if we say that the trader is not obliged, we didn't say that he can't, but he doesn't owe. So, he's freely assessing whether he will or won't. In this case, when, as I suggested by the amendment, we have stated that the trader is being banned, then it is imperative nature and then we can seek his responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44529	45 seconds of authorized representative time has been used. The 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) First Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic, then Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment has been submitted with the intention of installing into the law provisions that were already in the previous law, which will cease to apply to this law, which relate to the health of children, and to toys that can be dangerous to both milk and other food and drink for newborns and children. What is guaranteed by this law, as one of the basic rights of consumers, is security and you wrote this in Article 2 paragraph 1(2): "safety - protection from goods and services that are dangerous for life, health, property or environment or goods whose possession or use is prohibited". So if you guarantee something like this, there's no reason to leave out the provisions that already existed in the previous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44531	One minute and 15 seconds of MP time have been used. The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry Minister Milosavljevic is not here, he probably went to Miskovic to see where Zajtin is and if he arrived at his sales facilities. We suggest that Article 26 adds paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, where the 3rd reads - it is forbidden to offer outside of sales facilities. You, in your explanation, say that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the regulation of these questions is not the subject of this law. I don't know how you interpret it, how it would be necessary to protect consumers. If we look at where this month or two milk shortages are, it's actually the same protection of consumers. I am sorry that there is no Mr Milosavljevic as Minister of Trade, but in the past term there was also a Minister of Agriculture and could certainly have been expert in answering where the milk shortage is hiding. No cows were slaughtered in Serbia, not put anywhere, probably not in the EU, remain in Serbia. What's with the milk shortages? Because the food that peasants need to feed cows so expensive, and milk is cheaper than any product, and they no longer have a receipt to produce that milk. That's actually the main problem. Another problem is that you export this product, as you exported oil to Croatia, and in fact you created an artificial oil shortage and now you use that sale from the Republic reserves of 119 dinars. As I said in my speech in principle, where did you find 119 dinars, where you didn't round up to 120 dinars? Ladies and gentlemen, you see who's on strike today, the strikers are on strike, the police are on strike today, it's a shame. When we pass here in the Assembly and see what security is and who has security, we wonder if democracy in this Serbia, as you say, has been for 10 years and has never been a larger police state. You were able to call the previous regime Slobodan Milosevic and say it was a police regime; no, this is the police and dictatorial regime of Boris Tadic today. Ladies and gentlemen, what did not end in Ante Pavelic ended in Franjo Tudjman, and today in Serbia what did not end in Josip Broz, it ended in Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44533	Three minutes of MP time was used. Please stick to the subject of consumer protection, which is on the agenda. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Mrs Dimitrijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44534	Article 27. The draft law refers to the Code of Conduct, and Article 3 defines the duty of the competent ministry to encourage a trader or group of traders who have accessed a certain code of conduct to control the occurrence of unfair market behaviour of a trader or group of traders who have accessed that code. The amendment proposed an amendment to Article 3 by defining the obligation of the competent ministry to control the occurrence of unfair market behaviour of traders who have accepted certain rules of conduct on the market. The ministry, as a competent state authority, has much more opportunities to establish a control system. As foreseen by the bill, it can be understood that traders should literally spy on each other. Of course, it is of interest to all of them that each trader adheres to the code he has accepted, because if it is known that a certain trader has accepted a certain code, it is understood that he should behave as defined by it. If it has accessed and does not behave in accordance with the Code, it may cause damage to other traders who have accepted that same code and benefit it which does not belong to it or can cause damage both to itself and to other traders. It is therefore important for each trader to know the behaviour of the other and, in the event that the accepted codes are violated, it is, of course, necessary to inform the competent authority that would determine the facts. The next amendment to paragraph 4 is a logical trail of this amendment and, of course, it is necessary for consumers to be informed of the non-compliance of the code, because it is also consumers who can only sanction the trader by losing confidence in him and not buying his goods because, of course, the code is freely accessed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44535	Ten seconds of MP time was used. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 31st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the goal to achieve this amendment is to improve the text of the law, and also because of the specificity that the conclusion of the contract outside the business premises should have been accepted. Article 32(1) defines that the notification of the information on which the trader is obliged to notify the consumer before the conclusion of this contract, and the consumer's right to a unilateral termination of the contract, which must be clearly written in the order, in a simple and understandable manner. In order to avoid the arbitrary interpretation of this incomprehensible way, the amendment has made an intervention to keep the language that is written in the official use of the consumer country. It will certainly be the best way to understand what is written. If something were to happen in a simple way, but not in a language that is officially used in a consumer country, the question is would the consumer understand that? Is that an understandable way for him? It's mostly not, because the object of the sale can be goods from all over the world. The very nature of the out-of-business sales business is such that most often this job is done by traders who work for a percentage of what they sell and that is why this method of sale can be very aggressive, which is very aggressively advertised by the goods they sell and persistently encourage the consumer to agree to buy it. In most cases, it is about selling household appliances, cosmetic preparations, books, insurance, and the fact that traders visit consumers in their homes and working rooms. If the purchase agreement were not to be made up in this way in a language which was officially used in a consumer country, it would not mean much to most consumers because they would not understand. In a simple way, that is the main reason why I have submitted this amendment. However, it is inappropriate for the government's argument that the amendment is not accepted because the amendment is not well formulated, means that the formulation is not adequate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44537	40 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44538	Article 34 is one specific way of pointing to the style this law was written. I am sorry that the real authors of the text of this law are not there, but if a member of the 34th defines execution and delivery by contracts that are concluded by electronic means and at a distance, and if you formulate this way in paragraph 2, the trader cannot require the consumer to pay in advance on the basis of a distance contract, and do not explicitly forbid it to do so, then we amend this article by setting a deadline in which, if paid in advance, and no contract is made, the money must be returned, it is 30 days. Our goal was to point out to you right now that everywhere you leave "can" and not "must" or where you explicitly do not define such a practice is misused. From the financial market, where a ban on off-market trade is being carried out on a large scale, which we have had since the first beginning of the privatisation process, to some fresh cases of debt buyouts, to abuse of privileged information on the purchase of debts, etc. This law, like the law of any kind of justice that is taken and solved at the level of an institution, community and society, where an individual is not allowed to exercise justice in his own name, because it is then called revenge, and that is not the right, you have to decide by protecting an individual in the exercise of his rights, by not pretending to be blind in the way of legal norms, which do not express prohibitions, in fact are largely converted into common practice and to the inability to enforce sanctions for what is illegal, or here you are so loosely defined, as in Article 34. So, the basic achievement of human society is that the exercise of individual rights has been passed through institutions and that it does not leave an individual unprotected to do so, and I claim that this law does not do so and that is why the amendment to Article 34 has also been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44539	A 45-second mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used. The amendment, added after Chapter 6 by the new chapter 7 together were submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric and Judita Popovic. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44540	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP with its amendment clearly defined what services are of general economic importance. We have also clearly defined the standards for providing services and services to consumers. These are European standards which include the precise conditions of price formation, quality, consumption, price structure, infrastructure maintenance, accession tariffs, the right to change suppliers, the termination of a non-foam contract. These are European standards and only with respect to these standards can be expected from these monopolies, and mostly public enterprises providing these services, that these services are indeed provided in a certain way, with certain quality to consumers. If this amendment is not adopted, and the Government is obviously of the opinion that this amendment should not be adopted, in this case we are further allowing monopolies and public undertakings providing these services to non-market business, boastfully, while not making sure that they earn their profits by not having any competition. Therefore, there is no one on the market who could appear to them as a competition, a counterweight, thus improving the services, i.e. to lower the price of these services provided in terms of the supply of electricity, gas, telecommunications, water, chimney services and the like. Without a clear understanding that these services are of general economic interest, I think this law is completely unsettled. Therefore, the LDP amendment is of and what importance it is to improve the law and make sense of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44541	35 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? (No) On behalf of the 9th Amendment, the People's MP, Milorad Buha, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to the title above article 83. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 83rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44542	Article 83 of the Law defines the right of access to services of general economic interest, where the consumer is provided with the right to provide services of general interest at an appropriate quality and affordable price. It is said that in the process of joining consumers into the distribution network, the trader is obliged to act publicly, avoid discrimination, the price is calculated according to the actual costs of the services provided. With the amendment to that article in 83, we added, we feel the necessary need to add the words "on the territory on which they live" after the words "supply". What the Proposer says in the refusal of the amendment – it is unnecessary to narrow the scope of this provision. Recognizing the place where the damaged consumer will turn, to avoid discrimination publicly, to see where the price will be calculated and whether it is according to actual costs, you explain it by narrowing down the reach of the specific proposal of this member. I really don't understand. This is either a pointless provision of an argument to refuse, or you didn't understand what was said, and I think it's clear enough. In 83, he asks the consumer to exercise his right, without discrimination, at a price, but in the territory where he lives, and not because we are detailed and precise or square or petty, but to know where that door of electricity is, for example, on which he will knock and say – you are in charge of Article 83 of Law item 1 of Section 2 and 3 of the Law to provide me with the right to this and such service. As I explained in the previous amendment that this is not envisaged, this payment of a distance service or an electronic order, and I am telling you that the European achievement and provision of such a service with the possibility of payment in advance and that we have just defined the deadline for the refund of money in accordance with Guideline 97/7, Article 7(2). Consumer Protection Council, when making a long-distance contract. Guys, we're serious about this matter. We don't just write to write, regardless of the short deadlines, on impossible working conditions. We are submitting meaningful amendments to which we want to fulfill not only the name of the law, the protection of consumers, but to make it realistic in time, in space, in front of certain people and in certain addresses, as we are predicting in Article 83.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44543	The minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 83rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 84th Amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Zivkov has submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an apostle, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to add the words "and relief for certain groups" in Article 84(2) following the words "interests". I think this was an acceptable solution because this better defines the position of threatened consumers. However, in an explanation, which is more than inadmissible, you said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that reliefs cannot be subject to a sublegal act, but represent legal matter. It's normal because you, underlaws and regulations, are trying in every way possible to disobey the law. In fact, regulations and sublaws avoid what the law prescribes. There are thousands of them, for example, and that's certainly the way it is. This is another piece of evidence that you are doing everything to harm Serbian citizens by sublegal acts and regulations. The SRS believes that this argument that you have given simply is not the case, and the protection of consumers is the least thought by this government, because that even if it does, it should know that a large number of Serbian citizens with far greater problems are waking up than they are in the evening. How many people in Serbia have trouble buying bread and basics in the morning alone? We don't think this law is good above all, and we certainly regret that the Minister of Trade isn't here, because it could be a far better debate. He'd have to answer a lot of questions if he wanted to answer, but certainly the SRS can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44545	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44546	Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I wrote to the previous member and submitted as an MP for the SRS can be explained with a lot of arguments. I also talked to the co-workers of the minister, but I will not use this time to talk about this amendment, which, as I understand it, was not accepted just because we disagreed on a termological approach to what manipulative costs are. That was the reason I was away when you called me to talk about that amendment of mine. I'll tell you about what we started the session with today. Namely, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic, since you are authorized for this item of the agenda, what I'm going to say about you and the entire Serbian public, and the world's, and what I'm holding in my hand, I'm going to give you when I get up and come to you after the presentation, and that's what you've been asking for as information, wondering how we've been informed, how I got at the table of the chairman's answer that was delivered to you by the Office for Co-operation with the so-called. The Hague tribunal, which I also forwarded to the legal adviser, Dr Vojislav Seselj, Mr Boris Aleksic, and to the head of his defence team, Mr Zoran Krasic. What I'm about to hand over to you is a report from over 60 pages of cardiologist with VMA Dr. Zdravko Mijailovic, who was in October 2009, and you will see that this is the cardiac evaluation of Seselj Vojislav, who our president accepted and finally wrote that he agreed to what Dr. Zdravko Mijailović had done at the time. This is because today, one year after writing this report, the president of our party, and we have begun and you have seen the whole public that we have addressed these parliaments, which are standing on the SRS parliamentary benches, the whole of Serbia and you as chairman - stop killing Vojislav Seselj in The Hague, because today, so a few hours ago, our president from the Hague case has been taken back to the hospital and intervened over it, now I don't know the details of that data, but we will be, as far as Mr Alexic is concerned, certainly as his legal adviser, informed of it, that some kind of intervention is being asked for him or is changing, and so on. We have explained to you, and we who are laymen of medicine know, in such wanderings and in search of an alleged way to help someone, it is already an attempt to kill, because what they are constantly doing and what experiments they are doing over him, giving him a treatment that is not adequate for his health and anxiety is nothing more than an attempted murder. We expect... . (COMING: Excuse me, Miss Jovanovic, I will harshly violate the Rules of Procedure if after three and a half minutes I do not ask you, regardless of the seriousness of the situation I fully understand, it is still an obligation from the Rules of Procedure, to return to the topic. So I'm asking you to freely hand over that material, but... ) Mr. Novakovic, I told you at the beginning, although I have many arguments to explain the amendment, which the government was supposed to accept, to Article 83, as well as to Mr. Prelic, that I would not talk about it, but I will finish my presentation. I think that you, first of all as a lawyer and as a lawyer, understand what I'm talking about and the fact that Mr. Boris Aleksic started this morning by asking questions that all international conventions on the protection of man's freedom and rights have been violated, the Convention on Human Rights in general. At the end of my presentation, I apologize for talking about this, but I think this is important, because Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS, is not only the president of Serbian radicals, it is not someone Serbia is waiting to return after eight years of darkness to the country, he is a Serbian citizen who is as a slave and as someone who is eight years old, which would say, on the justice of God without any valid evidence there, and the process has not been completed, exposed to such torture as we are talking about, we are alarming.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44547	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. It is an amendment to the Members of the 24th People's MP Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44548	Mr. Novakovic, human life is always a topic. It is an unsanitary topic and it dominates all regulations, in all laws, in all human behaviors, etc. Just to remind you that this state through the Constitutional Court has put out the law that helps our citizens who are there. Let me remind you of this. I have no intention of raising someone's conscience, because actions show who the conscience is. To return to this amendment, given that at this moment you have concluded that the Rules of Procedure must be applied in such a way that unless something is said which is kind to one's ears may follow a warning. Although the question arises – does it make any sense to have this discussion when we know what is going on in The Hague? But if there's any need to meet your needs, I'll continue. Here's the thing. We have submitted several amendments to Chapter 9 – Services of general economic interest. In that so-called. You have also introduced terms of threatened consumer, protection from exclusion and not to order these terms which essentially mean nothing, it is a chapter that we know by name – services of general interest. So it's about some services, first of all what we're talking about infrastructure, gas, water, sewerage, heating, public traffic, something that's a condition for a normal life in an area. Now you're inserting terminology – economic interest. I can understand that by respecting the principles of property equality, accessibility and the performance of all jobs and services in a unique way to anyone who meets certain conditions, etc., but there has been no dispute so far and nothing will ever be disputed. All forms of property are equal. Anyone who knows how to do that job should do that job. I don't understand how you managed to define a public utility company as a trader. The public utility is a company engaged in the activity of general interest and provides services. When it provides services, it's not absolutely independent. To all their acts should be given consent by the founder or the one who entrusted the performance of those tasks. These jobs aren't on the free market. I'm afraid by this combination, you've practically tried to legalize a situation that's being imposed. You want to regulate it, but there's no consumer. The purpose of this law is to protect the consumer, to guarantee that the quality of goods and services will be as prescribed by law or as advertised by the trader, that there will be no consumer threat in price terms and that I do not further order all aspects of consumer protection. Of course, it must not be forgotten that there are monopolies, that society struggles against monopolies by controlling and limiting monopolies, and some have invented another system, which is to encourage competition. I must tell you that all of this, which is generally acceptable, is a little bit noticeable in this bill. You have to understand that it's, like, a plumbing and a sewerage of a public utility company. Under this law, it turns out he's a merchant. He's not a merchant. They provide services. They're providing a communal service. In order to connect your house to the city water supply and sewerage of the city's first pipeline and sewerage, by public authority, they must give you conditions for designing, so that they can approve part of the project, so that when you perform the works to give you the connection. So he's not just a merchant, he's a lot more than that, because he comes forward with power of power. That's what this is about. You are here to insert what will eventually come down to it – someone makes water, someone else distributes water. Not to open this topic with larger infrastructure systems at the level of the Republic, such as electricity, gas, why not say telecommunications, why not say the Internet, why not say cable TV, cable operators. In all these areas, the regulatory bodies appear. This law cannot be applied. Why can't it be applied? Because there's still that saying - more grandmas, more snotty kids. Many of them wonder, one without any authority of the government, and then the one who has the money is the one who has the money. He's practically being produced in a monopoliest. You make a monopoliest with these provisions of the law, provisions that are inadmissible. I fully agree with all those MPs who have criticised these initial provisions of this bill. Let's start with Article 5, where some concepts are defined, what they mean by this law. You put in a financial favor as the subject of this law, and then you say that the NBS will regulate it. Then you shouldn't have put that in. You shouldn't have put that in at all. I would suggest that you withdraw this law from the assembly debate, adapt it to our needs, that when you already intend to imitate, of course, some EU standards, be quite careful, because if this law should also contribute to the destruction, disorganization, non-functionation, problems and the collection of all services treated as general services intended for a large number of users, I think you'll do a bad thing, that we won't be able to get out of that vicious circle. In the meantime, when some property changes occur, it is practically impossible to solve this problem. In the end, it will be accompanied by end-users as users of services through the price of these services. We're going to get into a real schizophrenic situation, as we're now suggesting. A man is 45 years old, loses his job, and can retire only when he's 65 years old. What to do in those 20 years until he welcomes the fulfillment of that condition. I took this as an obvious example. With this example, they're all facing today. You're talking about beautiful European standards, beautiful European solutions. Then hire a 45-year-old man who lost his job. You hire him at some firm, see if you can. Then you tell him -- a year or two, you'll get something off the bureau, and the rest, when you're 65, if you're 20 years old, in the meantime, then you'll get a pension. How can he live to be 65? Do you have a solution in that interregnum? What's the solution? A container? A sock on your head? In the meantime, some of them get along well, so they work in public enterprises, so when they charge for their drinks, let them not pay for the public enterprise, but for their own private account. It's now the main hit in Rakovica. A year ago, I warned you what was going on. Just so you know, there are taxes that citizens pay in private pockets. The tax on the transfer of absolute rights in the private pocket goes away, and the income management issues assurance that the tax is paid. He was paid, but he didn't end up with the state, he ended up in private pockets. This is a European standard. What would we be miserable without Europe, what all this Europe has taught us or what part of Europe has taught us. We are likely to get involved in a debate on some members, just to draw attention to you that this kind of imitation allegedly of some EU standards can be devastating for all of this. There is no shame in helping Vojislav Seselj, Mr Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44549	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 85 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the Consumer Protection Act to amend and say in Article 85(2): The National Programme for the Protection of Threatened Consumers brings the Government on a proposal from the Resort Ministries and Units of Local Self-Government. This amendment refers to a national programme for the protection of vulnerable consumers, and is threatened by discrimination, which does not account for the actual costs of the services provided and is being planted by non-quality goods, which has expired or which is even health-threatening. This is only when a good part of the product is distributed or sold out. A good part of the blame for what I have just listed is the relations of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which have put consumers at risk by failing adequate inspection activities, control of goods and quality of goods. We now see that these same ministries should bring a national programme of protection against consumer endangerment. Since consumers make up a wide and important population of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian government is therefore obliged to pay attention to them and protect them with its economic policy. Unfortunately, it is practice in Serbia that economic policy parameters are determined by financial powers in the country, by foreign factors in Brussels, as well as by international banking institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44551	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44552	The proposed amendment to Article 86 deals with issues of legal protection against exclusion from the distribution network when it comes to services of general economic interest. I will read the proposed amendment of the DSS parliamentary group in order to make it more clear what it is – the trader cannot exclude the threatened consumer from the network, or deny a service of general economic interest, if this puts the health or safety of consumers and members of his household at risk. Nothing's a provision that's being negotiated otherwise. I'm glad the Minister of Health is present here, because this question could concern the work of his resistor. What does this proposed amendment mean? If the coming winter, and all the announcements that it will be so, the temperatures are very low, there are some announcements up to a minus 25 degrees, will it happen that those who are unable to settle their debts related to heating and electricity have been denied these services, even at the cost that this means a vital threat to these categories of people? However, when the temperature is minus 25 and when the current or heating is turned off, it is likely that all are being physically compromised. I think that the government, which calls itself socially responsible, should take into account the proposed amendment, accept it, and then, of course, find the moderations through some sublegal acts to ensure that such a formalised member is properly applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44553	I give my word to Miss Milic Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44554	Madam President, I've made a review of these papers, I've skipped the amendment to article 85 I wanted to talk to you about. I thought it was very important for this law. Chapter 9 bears the title – Services of general economic interest, and the title above Article 85 is – The National Programme for the Protection of Threatened Consumers. There's something very interesting here. I also mentioned in the principle debate research which must, of course, also be known to the people of the Ministry and to the general public because research has been done concerning consumer complaints of certain services. The majority of complaints are currently related to the quality and price of services of public importance. It was very interesting for me to observe how the legislator handled it in this chapter nine, so before I said in principle that, in fact, in this section, it was about those decisions that mattered to consumers in terms of price and quality of services, which concern the price, which concerns the conditions of payment there, as I see, there is no consumer protection. In fact, the ministry is the smallest degree of consumer protection precisely in these most important parts of all citizens, practically all citizens use all these services of public importance and these are, above all, electricity, gas, telephone. It's a story that appears in public these days that these winters will accumulate gas. The question is who is being agreed on by gas collection, not consumers, to collect electricity, whether it will be enough before the coming winter, that 15 cities in Serbia will not have heating. You know, that's when you bring it down to a real level, when you bring it down to ordinary people. It's this law when applied on some real ground. Then you can see that the monopolies, as far as this law is concerned, can be calm. The law protects them, but does not protect consumers. That is why we felt that a new member should be added here in Article 85 after Article 3 – the trader is obliged to submit an annual report on the implementation of a programme to increase the accessibility of services of general economic interest to the Ministry and to make annual reports available to the public. That's what the monopolies are about to do. They are the merchants this law speaks of in this article. They will not make their reports available to the public because then the public can know how electricity is calculated, and this is such a difficult, complicated mathematics that people cannot enter the system to know that they are calculating their electricity or some measure unit where no average citizen of Serbia has any idea what it is. So you have to be a scientist to figure out how our power distribution charges us electricity. Indeed, very complicated mathematics, and everywhere in the world it's something extremely simple. Put it on paper and calculate it yourself and it can't fool you with a monopoly that's being protected by the state in this case. So we realized that our amendment is very good, important and that it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44555	Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44556	I'm using the time of my authorised representative. A similar solution as colleagues from the DSS has been proposed by adding a whole head that regulates this area of service of general economic interest. This law is a law on consumer protection. Consumers are also when they enter the grocery store around the corner, and when they spend electricity. That's why we think that this really needs to be more detailed and clearer because, you'll admit, consumers are more threatened than the state that is powerful, which is behind public enterprises than small shops. Of course, they're more endangered than monopolies. Now let's talk about the state as monopolies. That's why it's important to regulate it. That's why we've given this chapter what services of general economic interest are, we've counted everything in this bill. At first, only some are mentioned and written – and so on. Now that gives a similar opportunity for different interpretations. Why would it be a different interpretation, when we know from the practice that this different interpretation will always go to the detriment of consumers, rather than to the harm of the state that owns these public enterprises, this law, which is on the government, etc. Unfortunately, public enterprises are not private. There is no competition in them, thus increasing the need to protect consumers. The government, refuting regulation in the way the LDP proposed, explained that the amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the meaning and objective of the law. What is the purpose and purpose of this law rather than the protection of consumers? Obviously, there is some other purpose and purpose to protect consumers, so it should not be called that, because we think that we have just proposed solutions that protect consumers. The government says it's not the law's goal or the meaning of the law. There's obviously some kind of big misunderstanding. I really don't understand why you refuse to regulate that area where consumers are threatened. There are, as I say, some arguments have already been made and we propose that, by adding this chapter to the'market imposition', the authorities responsible for regulating services of general economic interest have an obligation under their laws of prescribed competence to provide market competition in the field of services of general economic interest, in addition to the previously obtained opinion of the competent ministry. It doesn't stand in the law anywhere. Why don't we have more power distributors or, uh, gas, water, cleaning, garbage? What would that even be in the jurisdiction of local self-government or state? Why isn't it private? This would push everything. The strengthening of competition in this area is objectively for the benefit of consumers. You run away from it and nail these monopolies and in fact protect consumers, but protect someone who's already protected enough. Secondly, in your explanation, you say - these substances are regulated by other laws. We're going too wide, I guess, horizontally, vertically, diagonally, I don't know. It says – horizontal rules that make up a body of protection of users of services of general economic interest cannot be as detailed as proposed here, in order to clearly define quality, safety and safety standards for use. How can I not be? We've shown that I can. Who doesn't answer that? It certainly suits consumers. If this is a consumer law, then it should be accepted. You say - regulated by another law. Is this a consumer Lex special? No, I don't. The National Bank will take consumer loans, the Electricity Act will regulate this. Then what's left in this law? The consumer protection law against small bakalin, which is what it comes down to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44557	On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44558	It is interesting that the proposer, when submitting such a bill, as the basis for adoption, with already inevitable instructions or EU directives in the area of consumer protection and other international regulations, found the basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This article in 86 refers to the protection against exclusion, and we have provided for the erasure of this proposed member, or such an orderly member of the bill. Because the foundation is found in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we believe that this is exactly the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the decision of the tariff system established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think that some stories on the subject of this article have already been brought to life because, of course, the very definition of the termology of the trader’s ability to exclude the consumer from the distribution network, or he can deny the provision of services of general economic interest, if he does not settle his obligations to provide services continuously within two months of the date of arrival of the first unpaid account unless otherwise prescribed by law. So I'm not a lawyer, but I'm really interested in where there's a legal basis for a bill like this. From this, our attempt was therefore to delete this member because, as this is done, it is absolutely not in the aim, or in the sense that it is intended to achieve the adoption of such a law, that is to improve consumers in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44559	The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to article 86. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, the vice president wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44560	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government allegedly wants to protect this member from consumer exclusion, and it brings them into an extremely difficult position. Note the position of Article 1 of the 86th who says – the trader can exclude consumers from the distribution network, or he can deny the provision of services of general economic interest, it is some generic term that he does not know whether our legislation is within the framework of harmonisation with these laws that you accept from the EU, against which the SRS is, and our entry into that formation. So we're reacting because of the fact that you're now giving opportunity, here's specifically Serbia's Elektroprivreda that she's done something she hasn't done before. I don't know how much you have to do with reality and real life how hard people live. The data I'm about to tell you is absolutely correct. The average household debt for electricity in Serbia ranged from 15 to 18 000 dinars, so, that's the average, you have, here she spoke just before and colleague Vojić Markovic probably in Valjevo, like me in Kragujevac or in cities where everything was devastated, closed factories, people lost their jobs, that debt could be bigger. It all depends on the power distribution centre, but all that data is pooling, right, at the level of Serbia's Elektro-distribution. Not to mention KIM, which nobody mentions here, because you know who's protecting Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, when we're already talking about protecting against the exclusion from this kind of behaviour by the Cypriot terrorists who are making up there some kind of political power right now. And, of course, everything under Eulex, which Boris Tadic and the Serbian government have accepted, and all the international factors that rob us of our southern province. You say you can, it means you don't have to, and how are things now? When this law is passed, Serbia's Elektroprivreda will say nicely – yeah, then we will apply a member of the 86th Law. So far, I believe it's in all the cities of Serbia, since you know Elektroprivreda has nine centres as far as I think it is in Serbia, of course KIM is a special centre, but we have no access there and that's why our countrymen are harassed in so-called. The enclaves, they stay out of power for a few days, and the question is what happens when cold winter days come. But, let's just say, it's all over the place and they've taken up at the level of the board of directors of Elektroprivreda's position, if you have that debt that I'm talking about, so I'm thinking about household debt, you can pay 30% of the total debt to get into the so-called. a reprogramme now under different conditions. Those who are on average up to 18,000, they can't get into the reprogramme, although they're two pensions for someone who has the lowest pension, even two and a half, and out of these five thousand dinars you promised on October 1st, there's nothing, like it's April 1st, so some kind of joke. The rest of the people can pay, but in four months of war, and before that was ten. Do you know how many of these, dozens, hundreds of thousands of our citizens, households that have to enter the program? Now I see that Gilas, here are the councilmen and MPs from Belgrade, is offering the same for info, because people have huge debts and they can't pay for it. You tell them they don't have to do it. They're offering to get something out of this poor and robbed people. Now that this member of the law is adopted, they say, we will respect strictly the law, if within two months of the day of receiving the last bill you do not pay the bill, we will exclude you from the distribution network, and that is absolutely well explained by fellow Prime Minister Jeremic contrary to Article 90. The RS Constitution. Every man has a fundamental right to electricity, water, to have the basic needs that you call economic categories, which is actually a civilization achievement. Now that you have brought Serbian citizens into a situation where they lose their jobs, to freeze their salaries and pensions, to act on the dictatorship of the Brussels office and the IMF, that's another thing. No one's abnormal enough to build bills without having a place to pay them. You know what, when people look at the age structure of those who work and charge in the EPS, they see that they are the biggest and most valuable, to call them that, the pensioners paid. When he receives that church girl, those poor four thousand or five thousand dinars, he goes to the counters first, because they're old people, unfortunately, many of them sick, who have to be insured like that. They say, I'm afraid, if I stay in the dark, they have to pay a lot of expensive drugs anyway, and now they're also participating for many drugs for chronic patients reduced compared to earlier, and they have to make sure they have electricity and they have heating, and that's what's basic. So, you get in, first of all, except for this aspect that will lead citizens into an unfavourable position, and then these behave in accordance with this article, in something that does not concern this law at all. Since he is a leks specialist, then you gave yourself the right to interfere where you don't belong, and thus you enter into the collapse of the tariff system of the Republic of Serbia, and you know that the tariff system is something that determines the government of the RS on a proposal from the Agency. It was earlier in article 84 and a member of 83 scandalous cases, where you act the way the applicable regulations don't allow.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, we'll be working today and after 1800 hours, until the end of this agenda. I have a notice to give by 4:00. The amendment, added after article 86, by a new member of 86, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44562	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after Article 86, which concerns protection against exclusion, we have proposed Article 86. Although an amendment is similar in the previous presentation and is partly identical to ours, I would still read our amendment, as it concerns the socially endangered category and our member 86a reads: "The trader cannot exclude the consumer from the network, or deny him a service of general economic interest, if this puts the health or safety of consumers and members of his household at risk. Nothing is a provision contracting the opposite. The ministry responsible for consumer protection and the ministry responsible for social policy affairs, in co-operation with resolution ministries, prescribes restrictions on the exclusion of vulnerable consumers from the network. ''Our amendment significantly improves this article on consumers and we are discussing it. In practice, these services of general economic interest have been mentioned by many MEPs that as such, consumers and users of these services must be adequately protected and protected and that, in particular in categories where health or safety of the consumer and his family are at stake, special mechanisms are protected and cannot come into situations where any denial of these services can put the health and safety of the family itself at risk. The government replied in a sentence: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons of inability to prescribe conditions regarding exclusion from the network of vulnerable consumers in all areas of services of general economic interest in the same way". If you are a socially responsible government, I cannot believe that with one studio approach, criteria cannot be built and that you, as a socially responsible government, find mechanisms to protect socially endangered citizens, very often and ill, and unfortunately along with the disease goes poverty, so that you should accept this amendment and thus resolve the problem of a large number of socially and existentially endangered people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44563	The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to Article 87. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44564	Article 87. The draft law refers to the duty of notification before the conclusion of the contract, which must be fulfilled by one who provides services of general interest. Paragraph 1 of point 1 defines the duty of the mentioned traders to inform the consumer of their services that services of general interest must be provided at an affordable price. The amendment is proposed to delete this point because it is unclear and incomplete. The affordable price in practice can have different interpretations, as they are users of these services of different material conditions. For someone, one price is affordable, the other is petty, the third is too expensive, the fourth is inaccessible, the fifth is science fiction. One price each one will understand differently, according to their own options. It is also very interesting that this argument of the government is therefore not accepted. I will read it: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the term affordable price is already defined in positive regulations, e.g. in the Law on postal services, and represents a ratio of price and quality." Just because something's already done somewhere doesn't need to be done in any way that means doing the same thing again, unless it's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44565	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44566	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, as well as my colleague Dimitrijevic, have submitted an amendment to Article 87(1) and asked for the erasure of the words "at an affordable price". First, the language term "accessible" is undefined, vague and it can in practice create certain problems and create problems. Why the legislator installed this provision is a question to be answered by one of the present representatives of the Government and the Ministry. However, whoever officially needs to answer this question, it is the minister of trade and tourism, he is not present here. We and the public will be deprived of information on what it means "at an affordable price". We know at what prices citizens get a favor. What are the prices? I'll tell you one situation we faced two years ago, and we'll probably have those problems again this fall, and that's an increase in gas prices by JP "Srbigas", which has been projected by 60%. When it was criticised by representatives of the SRS and other opposition parties, then we excavated a lot of this data related to abuses by distributors and public companies dealing with gas distribution. Why is there a problem here? The problem is that local self-government allowed its distributors to form their own margin, so in practice we had one local self-government set a price of three dinars, the other of 13 dinars, the third of 18 etc, so that the prices of cubic metres of gas differed from municipality to municipality and total amounts went from a minimum price of about 28 to 45. That's what I've been saying since 2008. Another correction followed in 2009, and this year, after the gatherings that will likely follow these days, it will be even more drastic. This violates not only the price law, but also a bunch of other laws, but also the Constitution. The Constitution clearly states that citizens are equal in rights and obligations. Why does a citizen in one city pay a minimum price of 28, and the other, I remember very well that in the city of Vienna the price was 45 dinars? Why aren't the citizens even here? It's about services of general interest, but not economic interest, as you stated here. It is a general interest - that citizens get gas to heat themselves, such as general interest in getting electricity, to clean the city, etc., a set of municipal services and communal activities. Why did you install this provision of "economic interest"? You've narrowed down the protection of the citizens. This law is called consumer protection law. You don't protect consumers. This provision clearly states that the government does not want to protect consumers. If she wanted to protect the consumer, she would have kept the provision that these are general interests. Why are there general interests? Because the general interests, as a broader public concept, include all kinds of social interests, social interests, the social character of these activities that we are talking about, financial, economic, economic, etc. The characteristics of these activities and these services must bear the name as defined by our legal system. Our legal system in positive regulation speaks of the activities carried out of general interest. Economic interest must be excluded because economic and financial interest in its category has freedom of access. We don't have freedom of access because our distributors, as a rule, are in one municipality only one distributor. That's where we have to rule out the economic and financial interest that you want to put in here. That this is not the best thing to say about the provision of a member to define these areas, which is the meaning of certain terms in Article 5, where you say at point 28, "a service of general economic interest is a service whose quality of service is provided by or controlled by a state authority". There's no definition here. When one regulation defines a term that defines certain occurrences and events in the law, rights or obligations, it is then defined by a fully clear and defined formulation. When you say – it is a service or whose quality of the service, or the price is regulated or controlled by a state body, etc., not to read, it is a longer interpretation of these views, and you finally say in brackets – electronic communications, electricity and gas supply, communal activity or the like, that's exactly what we're saying. These are activities of general interest. There is no economic interest, in these activities, especially in the communal problem, economic interest is excluded. Why? Because prices are determined by local self-government. Services, mode, the quality of these services is defined at the level of the bar. In the case of public undertakings of a state character, the Ministry, or Government, determines in accordance with the provisions of the Price Act. You've mixed up here, etc. What's the point? The point is that you do not want to protect the consumer. If you reduce the level of protection, and you did it through this legal formulation, then you actually opened the market, opened up the possibility of far more flexible pricing and services, and then you enabled abuses, and in terms of monopolization of our market, especially in some of the activities you opened, so that monopolies do what they want, you did abuse. This is abuse of rights. This is not consumer protection, this is the opposite, this is market monopolization. Most devastatingly, you will now be in the works that are of particular social interest to allow the economic match for the monopolies to enter, that the monopolies buy these enterprises, and that is probably the announcement of the privatisation of the communal system that will follow, you announce it by the end of this year. Then those who privatise utility and utility services will be able to do whatever they want, or increase prices, to determine the level of services they want. There will be a lot of abuse, far more than it is today. Correct this, you have a chance until the end of this debate in detail, let's help the people. If we really want the help and protection of consumers, then you have to do as the SRS suggests. Set it up as ordered by the legal system or drop this, pull. If we haven't done anything in the last five years, as far as we have the Consumer Protection Act, to protect consumers, we have protected monopolies, traders and various manipulators on the product and service market, and in particular we have protected those we shouldn't protect.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44567	Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Mr. Sreto Peric wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have the status of the caller. You could have done that from somewhere else. Let me remind you that for the law that was before this, you said there were 22 or 23 members, so you don't need any special knowledge that he could represent himself here. This one has a little bit more than 155, and there's no need for special knowledge here, and now I'm going to tell you why it's not necessary. In the way this government understands it, and I think fellow MPs who support it all should have no knowledge, neither should certain laws be represented. Here, colleague Vesna Maric wanted only to show in part how consumers should be treated, especially if there is a consumer protection law on the agenda, but it does not mean anything to you, and maybe certain provisions by analysing SRS MPs will show that this law is directed even against consumers, not in their protection, but against consumers. The duty to notify before the conclusion of the contract is the title above the 87th member, to which counterpart Vesna Maric submitted the amendment. Point 1 of this article says when they are obliged to notify – in the event that the consumer's right to services of general economic interest of a given quality must be provided at an affordable price, she said - suitable for domestic market conditions, to add to that – a domestic price. The government said, in reasons for not accepting this amendment, that this amendment is not sufficiently precise and that it cannot therefore be accepted. The Maric bar here points to Serbia's space, and what the government has suggested is that prices are affordable. Where, in which country are they accessible? What bothers you about this – on domestic terms, in the domestic market? They will cease to exist, I think, and ideological differences in Serbia. Some will be able to swallow it, to digest it, but you will be left with great differences in something else, there will be great differences between the rich, which you create and whose true representatives you are, and those of the poor, whom you are making with your politics upside down and none, there will be a conflict between them. Do something to keep it from happening. Accept this amendment. It will not improve the quality of life in Serbia, but at least this legislation will be a little more precise and more practical.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44569	Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44570	How much time do we have for an authorised representative? (President: Ten minutes and your group has five and a half minutes. ) And these amendments and these two last discussions show how right we were by insisting on regulating this chapter of services of general economic interest. I hope to refer to Mr. Buha's exposure, that he is right that by the end of the year there will be privatisation of public utility companies, but I'm afraid it won't happen. When I talk about it and what the LDP stands for, we don't think that privatisation should privatize monopolies. No, monopolies should be broken wherever possible, and in principle it is possible everywhere except in some rare situations of natural monopolies. Why would the privatisation of some city cleanliness in Belgrade or in Novi Sad sell everything, the whole purity to someone? No, that company needs to be divided into several parts and then sold those parts to a company or given a concession to take garbage to a specific territory. This is how competition is created when citizens begin to complain to municipal or city authorities that the company is not working. If it is determined by an analysis that they do not respect the contract, that firm loses its concession and can no longer work. It's the competition we're talking about, not the sale of the monopoly, as it was in the energy agreement with Russia, where we replaced our country's monopoly with another country's monopoly. Now we come to an example. Let's imagine that winter and heat are going, as we are preparing for some cold winter and high prices and strict conditions of payment that the NIS under our Russian administration will expose, that we have to pay within 15 days, imagine a consumer who is heating up, say, in Zajecar and has been paying his bills neatly so far and has never been late, and now suddenly because Zaječar's toplan owes NIS money, and NIS will no longer act as a Serb monopoly, but acts as a foreign monopoly, reverses the faucet and there is no heating. The one who paid neatly for the heating runs out of heat. Does he have any right or will he be told – you know, he owes the heat, there's no one heating up, what you're rebelling about, etc. What's it to him? As far as he's concerned about how the heat works, who replaced the domestic monopoly with someone else's monopoly, he paid neatly and wants to have heating. This law does not protect him, and everywhere in Europe he would have the right to compensation, because he is not guilty of no heating in Zajecar, not guilty of heat business. He was given a favor and paid neatly and suddenly, neither guilty nor due, would suffer consequences. That's what we talk about when we talk about monopolies. This is what we talk about when we say that this law is not protected by consumers from what is still a monopoly, and these are public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44571	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 88th amendment. Mr. Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44572	The proposed amendment concerns the duties of notification. I will read article 1 of Article 88, which says, "The trader is obliged to notify the consumer of the price change no later than a month before the start of the change in prices, unless the special law requires otherwise." The DSS MP group intervened precisely on the last part of the sentence, which says "unless the special law is otherwise prescribed" and is scheduled to delete the part. Our argument is that there should be no exceptions to this provision. The question arises why is there even an opportunity to make exceptions to traders? Who will be obliged within a month to inform consumers about the price change and who won't? Does this mean that this law will introduce a category of privileged traders and consumers of first and second classes? This can, in a practical sense, lead to a kind of consumer delusion with different implications, primarily financially. If this formulation remains as proposed in the law, I think we can add another definition, which is the protection of traders from consumers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44573	On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44574	If we didn't happen to know the damage to the government of the Republic of Serbia, we'd have to be amazed at this rude formulation of Article 2 88's attitude. What does that attitude 2 say? There is talk of the duties of notification of traders and says – the trader is obliged to inform the consumer publicly and in good time about the planned change in the tariff system and the general terms of the contract. What does that mean in public? We insisted in our amendment that the trader is obliged to inform the consumer in writing and in good time, and you say in an explanation why it is unacceptable for the Government – the amendment is not accepted for reasons of inequitableness regarding the costs related to the direct vision of the notification, given the obligation of public notice. Who cares how much it costs and how it will regulate the costs of a public enterprise that is obliged to notify the consumer of a price change? You're making fun of the misery of the Serbian citizens you've brought them to for the last 10 years, gentlemen from DOS and gentlemen from the government. We get some free commercials every month, with that infotana bill. They advertise banks, advertise insurance companies, offer their services, advertise some false humanitarian actions, and we never get an answer who pays for it. We're asking, but we don't get an answer who pays for it. So there's money for that, there's no problem with economics or non-economy, and when it comes to informing the citizen that he's gathering some municipal service, then you're going to do it in public because you have to take care of economics. Do you know what it would look like now when, every day we read in the paper, and the perpetrators go court to list old televisions and even older refrigerators to people who were unfortunately unable to pay info bills, so you'll turn off the remote power, so that no more man will be able to protect himself, lock down the house, that you can't enter to block the power clock, etc. You've got money for all of that. You also have the money to sue and to pay the bailiffs and to get some instruments that you can power off remotely, you just don't have the money to do something good for this people and for the citizens of Serbia. We really don't know how much more of this government's insolence goes. This amendment can only look like a legal-technical editorial, but it's not just that. This is a fundamental problem. Now I'm going to ask you, Mr. Minister -- if you turn off someone's electricity because they couldn't pay for it, and you need to let them know they're going to pick up the gas, then you're going to let him know in public, how is he going to watch it on TV since you cut his power five days earlier? This really is the height of cynicism and insolence. Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, don't play with this people anymore and don't insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens. If you threaten the gatherings, and it is obvious that there will be accumulations and electricity, and gas, and water and all municipal services because they are used to it, first there will be a time of shooting between various agencies and ministers in the media. Let the agency, which is allegedly in charge of proposing a price hike, come up with an economic account to do so, and then some caring minister from the government comes out on another channel, and says it can't be done because it has to be taken care of the economic and social situation in the country and then we find out, after these correspondences, as if they're from two different states and not from the same government office, the information that something had to be collected and that this and the service had been collected for so much and so much. Then at least please inform the citizens, so they know what's ahead of them. We suggest that this amendment be adopted. At least that's what you can do for these citizens you brought to the beggar stick. Of course, we have no Serbian radicals, the illusion that you will move your finger to improve something in this country. Take care of yourself. It's nice to you. How's the people, you don't care. After all, if you had any morals, first of all, you would have responded to our daily cry and called to stop the killing of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. When we put this warning text in front of us this morning, half the DS MPs and the ruling majority laughed. Unfortunately, it also reflects the position of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We are not asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Seselj is not asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor will he. Those who drove him to The Hague will not live to be asked by him, but we want the Serbian public to know how immoral you are and how much you care about our citizens who kill in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44575	Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44576	Just because I submitted two amendments to article 84, I applied for a word, and Mr. Novakovic probably didn't give it to me because he didn't see it, it was actually my card in the MP's unit, but the application didn't show.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44577	You can use your time now and about that member right now. So you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44578	I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to Article 89, which is identical to Article 84, because the word "economic" is deleted. Article 89 states that 'the consumer has the right to unilaterally terminate the service demand contract of general economic interest', my amendment to this word refers to the 'economic' being deleted, 'if it does not agree with the price change or tariff change and the change in the general terms of the contract mentioned in the notice of the trader. In many amendments to the SRS, we are also asking that the word 'economic' be deleted, that it is much broader than the general interest in the consumer protection law. Regardless of such appeals and so many amendments submitted under the same circumstances, the SRS continues to argue that this situation is contrary to the argument that the Government has now given to our amendments that we have submitted and the reasoning of the laws which touch and concern these matters. Since Mr Milosavljevic may not have even read the full law, and I don't know if he could answer this appeal by asking for his amendment that, in essence, the previous speaker Milorad Buha explained in detail, the notion of economic tightness of general interest, and that certain parliamentary groups, such as DSS and LDP, who just gave the same explanation that public enterprises are a monopoly and that it may have been replaced in an earlier period that was now state-owned, are private, I don't think the SRS agrees. We absolutely agree that Serbia's citizens are the most vulnerable economically, but in this case, consumer protection would be much better and more covered if it were - of general interest. We continue to appeal and say that the Government remains on all our amendments to deafness and that it does not want to accept any amendments to the SRS i.e. opposition to amendments to this law. I think if you were to remain deaf to all the amendments that we have submitted in front of the SRS, do not remain deaf to the appeal and today's SRS gesture that wants to protect your president in The Hague, and you are from the branch of the doctor, Mr Minister, do something in the government, say what word and government if it is responsible to seek the absolute protection of President Vojislav Seselj and all prisoners who are at risk in The Hague's Health Tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44579	Members of the 90th Amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44580	In Article 90 and Article 3, otherwise Article 90 speaks of the right to change the service provider, it says that if a contract on the provision of services of general economic interest is concluded on a specified deadline, the expiry date must be indicated on each account. As several of our amendments have already been and colleagues have explained, explained, we do not think that we can talk about economic interest but only about the general interest, among other things, because it is of different economic interest in different categories, not to say individuals in Serbia. It can't be the same, Mr. Minister, the economic interest of you and your driver, because his salary is 20,000 dinars, and yours may be 120 or 140, I'm not speaking precisely, but in any case certainly so many times greater and cannot be the same economic interest of yours and his. It cannot be the same economic interest of President of the Supreme Cassation Court Nate Mesarovic, who gave herself a salary, as much as we could read the other day, 3.5 thousand euros, it seems to me, and these employees in the judicial administration who have to strike to get some kind of church from which they could live solidly or modestly, that is, because the largest number of court administration employees are working for a salary of 14 or 15 or a head of 20,000 dinars. It would be much more appropriate to just say that it is a general interest, not as you said - a general economic interest. Then you say that the amendment is not accepted, and all of the amendments that we have made are not accepted because they are contrary to the meaning and purpose of the law. It would be good, Minister, if you spoke well today to tell us what the point is and what the purpose of this law is. We Serbian radicals, through today's debate tried to convince you or, above all, explain to the citizens of Serbia, we see that this law is completely pointless. So it doesn't make sense. You, or two days earlier when spoken in the principle debate, then the representatives of the government and the Government assured us that the aim of this law was consumer protection. We claim it isn't. Quite the opposite of what you tried to introduce us to. If our amendments are contrary to the purpose of the law, please tell us what is really the meaning of this law, what is really the purpose of this law. Try to convince us Serbian radicals that we are wrong, because we have been convincing you all day, but above all, we are informing the citizens of Serbia of what you are up to and are preparing this law. Unfortunately, most of what we have said Serbian citizens know, because we have received this information from both citizens of Serbia and from members of our narrow or wider families, and from their friends, neighbours, because the largest number of citizens of Serbia today, thanks to the plight and devastating functioning of the RS government, is in social misery, the economic crisis. You don't protect them with this law. It may have been someone's intention that a law like this really protects consumers, but what you've offered as a bill and even with the fact that you have no ear for any amendment by opposition parties is saying that this is also one of the laws that you're making order. The only thing that matters to you is to put the line through. We'll have amendments and additions to this law in the next three or four months. That's absolutely certain, because this can't be an exception to all the other laws you've passed here and where, after a few months, we've had changes or additions to this law. What we're talking about doesn't seem to reach your consciousness, and we're particularly concerned that our appeal to stop the killing of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague is not being touched by your consciousness.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44581	Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44582	Article 91 speaks about the specification of the account and in that first position says – the trader is obliged to provide accounts for the services provided by the general, again you say, economically, and we think that we do not need economic but general interest, delivers without delay and within time limits that allow the consumer to monitor the consumption achieved and the task of accounting for a maximum period of one month. I don't know if anyone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is paying bills for electricity, water, utility and phones, and so on? When you read this law, you really get the impression that you in power don't pay these municipal bills at all, and I suppose you should. If you're paying them and someone else isn't doing it for you, then you should know what every account that Serbian citizens get looks like. The prize question -- somebody take the bill, say, "Electritions" and explain to themselves or to any of us what he's paying in that account, here comes the reward. That's right with all the other accounts. So act like you live in this world and this country and you're part of this people. Do not take every step and through every legislative proposal to assure us that you are, indeed, absolutely out of life, out of the world and beyond what is currently an economic and social situation in the state of Serbia. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, if you're accidentally interested in what we're talking about, and obviously you're not, it would be really good to do something in the general interest, but not in the general economic interest. I said earlier, the general economic interest of different categories of citizens of the Republic of Serbia differs dramatically. Let's think a little bit about the general interest, and if you define yourself, then you will certainly help millions of hungry people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44583	The 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44584	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, my colleagues, not only from the SRS parliamentary group, but also from other parliamentary groups, spoke of the consumer protection law, which allegedly needs to be brought into line with European standards, missing and incomplete on many issues, among other things, and when it comes to these famous consumer loans. It is certainly well known to you, Mr. Minister, that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been back several years, more precisely since 2001 and 2002, when the domestic banking system was destroyed, when the domestic financial market was wide open to foreign banks, but also to the economy of the Republic of Serbia, exposed to an unremembered robbery. I want to let you know that, more specifically in certain federal units of the United States, responsible persons are being prosecuted in banks that charge loans at interest rates that are otherwise valid in the Republic of Serbia. In the United States, such interest rates are considered green. Those who charge for such loans, and count such interest rates, are prosecuted for serious crimes. In the Republic of Serbia, it is perfectly normal for interest rates to be 10%, 12%, 15%, 20% or more, which is unrecorded in any EU Member State. The question arises – how do you bring this into line with consumer protection issues with European standards, when European standards are something completely different, something that really does not exist in this bill? The question of the so-called question. consumer loans are currently completely legally unregulated in Serbia. The law on bond relations does not know the term, nor does the concept of consumer credit, and no other law regulates the issue. The SRS was expecting, and I see that other parliamentary groups were expecting, that the consumer protection law would be the law that would regulate under what conditions and how banks, or other financial entities, could approve citizens of consumer loans. Instead, we have a situation where a citizen doesn't actually know what amount of credit he's supposed to pay back. We have a situation that I don't think has been recorded in any civilized country, that the bank charges interest on maturity, and unpaid interest. It's forbidden in all democratic states. It happens in the Republic of Serbia. Some clauses are agreed, where a man takes credit in one amount, so when he has to return it, it turns out to be three times bigger. Not to mention those banal things, which you've heard for sure, Mr. Minister, that the basic text is written in a font, say, twelve, and let's say the most delicate things, which are most tangling by an ordinary citizen, are written in a font of six. A man should take a bat when he reads that contract, otherwise a type contract, where autonomy is willful, practically, reduced to a minimum, to find out what's waiting for him, if he enters one such credit arrangement. As for the amendment itself, we tried to distract you, but it seems unsuccessful. When you pass one law and, if you really want to harmonize the legal system, then you have to take care of the concepts used by already applicable laws in the Republic of Serbia. The Law on Community Works, the Law on Public Enterprises and Activities of general interest is used by the concept of general interest. The general interest is by definition a public interest. It's a general social interest. This means that it is also economic interest, political interest, social interest and any other interest. The SRS has had an intensification through this and through amendments submitted by my other colleagues to the consumer protection law in terms of termological terms, be in line with the laws already in force in the Republic of Serbia. You didn't want to respect that, and now we have an impossible situation, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to comply with the laws passed by the National Assembly with European regulations, and we have laws that are not in line with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia itself. Now you have one notional apparatus in laws, such as the Law on Community Works, the Law on Public Enterprises and the activities of general interest. So, note bene, ministers, general interest, not general economic interest. Now you have a brand-new definition category that is given in the law to protect the consumer. We believe that there is no need for this to be done, that all laws in the Republic of Serbia should be harmonised among themselves, so when it comes to your hand, then we can only talk about the possible laws of the Republic of Serbia being brought into line with some international standards. What the SRS also wants to tell you at the time of this major economic crisis and at a time when the Serbian government apparently intends to give consent to the price of gas, that a kind of robbery of Serbian citizens is already being carried out at the current price of gas. In fact, Mr. Minister, I don't know if you know the fact that today the public company "Srbigas" invoices to citizens who are gas consumers one condition, and it charges someone else and more. In other words, gas consumers in the Republic of Serbia pay more than they have actually spent. I think it's something that's nowhere in the democratic world. It would be good if the Serbian government first addressed these issues. If you allow it to collect gas, is it 10%, 15% or 20%, and you have not previously cleared up the situation, which is actually the state of the citizens paying – is it the one that invoices this public enterprise or the really spent amount of gas? Then it will indeed be an attack not only on the standard of Serbian citizens, but also on the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, that would be the same if you came to a gas station, poured fuel for 1,000 dinars, and the seller charged you 1,500 dinars. About now, it's happening with the gas bills. My colleagues Natasa Jovanovic and Verica Radeta tried to tell you about it, and you certainly know that because you are a consumer in the Republic of Serbia, in order to carry out an analysis of the bill for spent electricity, you really need some super-average knowledge, which is not available to ordinary citizens of Serbia. First, some concepts are used that are completely incomprehensible to ordinary citizens. When you take the paper and pen, you don't really know what you're paying for. How much electricity did you really spend, what is its basic price, what does everything go from elements to the price of electricity? Mr. Minister, it is announced that yesterday I saw the CEO of JP "EPS" as by Friday we have to import a new amount of electricity because the temperature is minus 50, and we have bills for electricity that nobody lives in Serbia understands. We really don't understand how this is all in line with European standards now. Where does that gas charge in the EU as charged in Serbia? Where in the EU is electricity charged as charged in Serbia? Nowhere. So this is no compliance with European standards, this is the adoption of a law that will in no way improve the position of consumers. After all, this is a law that is in a situation where Serbian citizens are completely unnecessary. Serbian citizens living hard will live equally hard with this and without this law. The Serbian government, this is our message to the citizens of Serbia, has a constant need for the public to burden Serbia with topics that are not current and which are not most important. In conditions where you have an obvious rise in all the prices of basic life supplies, basic products and services that are necessary for normal human existence, when it is obvious that there is nothing of rapid entry into the EU, when it is obvious that a large number of Serbian citizens will lose their jobs in the next period, when it is obvious that those who work in the Republic of Serbia are working for some wages and mercenaries that are completely below the labour market value, and this strike of employees in the judiciary will best prove to you, when all of this and a lot of other things you have in mind, then you realize that this consumer protection law is something that MPs should now play with and Serbian citizens to be distracted. Essentially, those most important topics for citizens' lives kind of go past them. That is why, one of the reasons why the SRS does not support the consumer protection law, which is missing, which is filled with holes and which will essentially not be able to repair any difficult consumer position, otherwise, Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44585	Members of the 91st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Mr Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44586	I submitted the amendment by proposing that in Article 91, point 1), paragraph 1, after the word "checking and following the amount of its duties" add new words "with real condition at the time of verification". In Article 91. The bill is prescribed that the trader is obliged to deliver the accounts for the services provided of general economic interest without delay and within the time limits allowing the consumer to monitor the consumption achieved and the debt for the accounting period of no more than one month. There are many examples of abuse in practice by legal persons who place bills for their services, but I will only give an example of cable and internet operator "SBB". This operator has established a bad practice of delivering bills to citizens in advance. So in early 2010, it happened that the "SBB" for citizens in advance set out three accounts for their services, and of which two accounts were increased by 20%. However, such increased bills were sent to citizens' addresses, regardless of which Ratel had not yet approved the collection, but did so later on on January 22nd this year. So this is called a classic abuse by the "SBB" monopolies, who gave citizens advance bills with a new service price of 820 dinars, while neither the new price was granted nor it was appropriate to charge advances for a service that was not provided. This practice must be stopped and prevented. I therefore believe that the adoption of this amendment would be in the spirit of not only Article 91, but in the spirit of the overall bill governing the protection of the rights of consumers, i.e. the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44587	Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44588	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in Article 91, paragraph 3 after the word "account" is added to the words "as soon as possible". This amendment allows the consumer to receive the requested notification as soon as possible. The objective to achieve the adoption of this amendment is to improve the text of the law. Electricity bills in Serbia are the biggest problem for electricity users. Among other known and unknown errors by suppliers or wholesalers, electricity users, customers, experience trauma. A large number of households in Serbia are barely paying their electricity consumption, and there are some who cannot even pay for electricity consumption. You'll ask me a question - why? Because by your policies, you've led the citizens to this level that they don't have the means to buy a pound of bread, and the electricity comes to them as "I don't think I have to pay for it today." Remember Nis and other cities where you, gentlemen of the post, as an opposition educated the population not to pay the bills. That's supposed to be how the regime of the then government falls. Everyone who listened paid the price. This law is bad and is unable to cover Serbia's economic picture and protect consumers. You killed all the producers in Serbia, so why protect the consumer? I'm not going to tell you what you've ruined. That's what citizens are saying in public these days, on the tenth anniversary of your revolution. What directives do you respect from the EU when you know that you will never enter the EU? That's what your president revealed to you in Svilinca these days. Praise the EU, and it makes our country a polygon for selling all its goods (the deadlines of which have long passed and are not for human and cattle consumption). Serbian goods to the west can't go further than Shid. You've already started educating the media and slowly writing uglyly about the Russian economy and our co-operation with Russia. But the people will not forgive you. Article 91(3) following the word "account" adds the words "as soon as possible", which would now read: "The trader is obliged to deliver a detailed account specification to the consumer without compensation and, at his request, deliver to the consumer a detailed account specification as soon as possible". The amendment is precise and clear, but it doesn't mean anything to you. It is easier for you to formulate this – the amendment is inaccurate and is not accepted for this reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44589	The amendment, which was added to the title and new Article 91, was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Mr. Nikola Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44590	This amendment provides that a new title, which reads after Article 91, is to be added to the new Article 91a, which reads as follows: "The competent authority is obliged to publish an annual report on the state of protection of the rights and interests of consumers in the field of services of general economic interest, in particular on the number and content of consumer complaints, the number of consumers excluded and the role of consumers in the creation and implementation of consumer protection policies in the field of services of general economic interest and the implementation of protection of endangered consumers". I think it would be very important to read the whole proposed text because it speaks to the fact that citizens should have the opportunity to hear once a year how many complaints there are about work and professionalism for those who provide these, I would say, monopoly services. So it's about electricity, water, heating and other supplies. In fact, it can be followed precisely how many companies, which have a kind of monopoly position, take seriously all observations and how many years in a year it advances its own work and removes irregularities and irregularities in its own work. It is, of course, exclusively in the interest of improving the position of consumers. I urge the government to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44591	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 92. He's not here. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44592	It was necessary to accept this amendment because this whole chapter, in fact, notification and pre-contractual notification of the way and the realization of tourist travel, was really unnecessary in this chapter ten, in addition to defining the title as consumer protection in the exercise of the right of travel contracts, is added to the time-sharing use of immovable property. In terms of contractual obligation with a tourist agency, it represents nothing. In this amendment, I made an intervention in Article 5, where the motionor very descriptively defined what it is that is offered when it comes to the accommodation facility. So, also the location, type, category, content of that facility according to the applicable regulations of the state in which the facility is located, and I can understand that because categorisation in Serbia is not the same as in Egypt or in Greece or Turkey, or in Tunisia, which our citizens most often use for summering, or for family relations. But what is missing in this article is certainly the level of service, because without it there can be great manipulation in the conclusion of a contract and the deception of a potential buyer, or whoever is using a tourist travel service because it's just amazing to me that you've listed all this. You even went to these details that it does not exist as a provision in the Tourism Act. This is a Lex special, so we'll see. Now we have something to discuss in the coming days, probably at the next session or at one of the next changes and the addition of the Tourism Act to comply with this law. So it's amazing that you've even gone to these details that anyone who sells a tourist arrangement has to define where and when a bus, say, to stop, where and when to take a break, what is the degree of comfort of a means of transport, which is really nowhere in the world as a categorization. There's no such thing as that. You can travel by plane, use an economic class that has other subclasses. Within the economic class you have the opportunity to buy a cheaper ticket or more expensive, and you have what is called service level, which is either a bed with breakfast or half board or a full board, or what is now offered, and these are arrangements that are subject to the ol inclusive or ultra ol inclusive, and if this is not stated in the tourist contract, then someone does not know what is expected of it because the arrangement which is the maximum level and degree of service in a hotel is that so-called. Ultra ol inclusive, where you almost have nothing to pay for, from the use of spas and sports facilities, and a la map of restaurants and everything that's reached your hands, as you might say, in one such complex or in a hotel, which you already have to do when it comes to this lower category. Therefore, it was really incomprehensible to me, and on the other hand, given that the debate is nearing, that is, the end and debate of the amendments, we will end within an hour and some time and I want to return to the beginning of today's session and this appeal to the entire domestic and world public: "Stop killing Vojislav Seselj in The Hague".
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44593	Your task force has no time left. You only have time to explain the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic to Article 94. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 95th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44594	This amendment was more appropriate because, in practice, this doesn't exist, it's called something else. The promoter said that if the trader offers the consumer to conclude a travel contract during a certain promotional event. What is meant by this event in Serbian, as something that cannot be defined in termological terms. We can say, during some promotional period, and that would be more appropriate and that's what exists in practice. Whether it's a weekend action or a pre-season, or some event that's taking place in a Banjski and climate place, then a promotional commercial period when someone who wants to make an arrangement with a tourist agency has to be aware of what this commercial period gives him as a convenience. So this is pretty ghastly in both essential and practical terms, and that doesn't mean anything. If this is some period of offer that is treated as the most favourable for someone who offers such a service, you should define it and know exactly what someone then gets under the most favourable conditions, rather than when it is in the course of the tourist season or when it is much more expensive, and then you should pay attention and accept this amendment that I have submitted on behalf of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44595	On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44596	I have submitted an amendment to the Consumer Protection Act on Article 97(2). Article 97 refers to the replacement of consumers by another person, and to the formal conditions for the conclusion of the travel contract. Item 1 of Article 97 reads: "The consumer may, before the start of a tourist trip, determine the other person who has the right to use contracted services instead if he meets the specific requirements foreseen for a specific tourist trip". Paragraph 2 of Article 97 reads: "In the case of a Article 1, the trader may request compensation exclusively for the costs incurred by the replacement". I propose that this position should be changed and that it reads: "In the case of Article 1, the trader may request compensation only in accordance with the conditions laid down by the Tourism Act". We have a valid tourism law. In point 6), relating to the rights and obligations of travel organizers and travellers, under general conditions of travel, the rights and obligations of the organisers are governed, i.e. they are provided for passengers and in particular stresses the right to compensation for costs incurred when the passenger provides an appropriate replacement or a replacement I found the organiser, then, passenger rights in the event of cancellation of travel etc. So, in the current Tourism Act, it's all defined in one way. This amendment calls for compliance with the Tourism Act. My goal was to improve the law, but the government did not accept it, because this does not match the relevant EU directives.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44597	The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic to Article 102. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 107th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44598	Article 107 defines liability for damages related to non-compliance with the terms of the contract promised by the provider of tourism services. According to Article 1, ‘If the trader or a third party who, on behalf of the trader, was to fulfil the obligation under the travel contract does not fulfil or partially fulfil the obligation under the travel contract or if the consumer is late in haystacks, he may request compensation from the damage he has suffered, including immaterial damages. ''Here, I remind the promoter that it writes nicely here that intrinsic damage as a type of damage from the Bond Law should be covered, but we have amendedly asked that "or if it is late with its fulfillment" to insert the words "or amend certain provisions of the contract, with the consent of the consumer". Imagine, the promoter was terribly surprised that we said that there was a demand for immaterial damage even when the contract changed with the consumer's consent and you replied that the amendment was not accepted for reasons of contradiction of the proposed formulation. Now, gentlemen, I direct you to a specific life that reads like this -- you have concluded a travel contract, that you travel from July 15th to July 25th. You have barely been able to convince your employer to give you a vacation in that time; you have agreed with your brother and sister to take care of business obligations, for example, a parent who doesn't have to be sick at all and needs help, and a thousand other private obligations and restrictions that we have in line with that deadline in which your vacation is planned and arranged with a tourist organization. They then ask you to change the terms of that tourist trip and you have to agree, because you have no other way out than to agree to a hotel lower categories, a hotel that is further from the beach, a hotel where food is served differently, not three meals, but two meals, and you wanted not to have to choose or miss an annual vacation, and to ask for money paid back or agree to those terms. What harm do you suffer? You pay for deck chairs, for example, but you had previously agreed terms, you pay for food, you buy, you cook, I don't even want to talk about what turned out to be a luxury, you planned to visit something, from the hotel where you were transferred to changed conditions, you can't do that anymore. The one who forced you to sign changed terms has the legal right to claim compensation from that contractor in the country or place where he has contracted that service, has the right to claim compensation from the carrier with which he negotiated the arrangement, and for our domestic consumer who is forced to agree to the changed terms and signed it, according to you contradictoryly, we seek the security of the terms and its protection as a consumer. Does anyone even engage in what is written here and do you even watch television, listen to those who have the opportunity to travel and what they are facing, or is this really a law on the protection of service providers, sellers, travel agencies, and not consumer law?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44599	A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the amendment to Article 113. Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP group "Forward Serbia" of the SNS has also submitted an amendment to Article 113. A bill on consumer protection, which at the end of Article 1 is deleted, marks the point, and the words "in the Serbian language and language chosen by the consumer". I could expect any justification for the rejection of this amendment from you, but this argument in which you said "an amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is not in line with the provision of an EU legal source that is being transported", I could not have expected that already. In particular, this amendment is in line with the provisions of Guideline 2008/122 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU of 14 January 2009 on the protection of consumers with regard to certain aspects of time-sharing use of immovable property, long-term products for rest, resales and exchanges, so that you could come up with some other creative reason and an explanation for the rejection of amendments to come up with. In any case, we believe that it may be significant for the consumer that the contract is made in another language except in Serbian, because if the subject of the contract is a property located on the territory of a foreign country, then there may be an application of the country's rules regarding the registration and other records, such as taxes or taxes, and for the purposes of the foreign government, a contract in that language is needed. On the other hand, if the consumer is a foreign citizen who does not understand the Serbian language, it is quite right for the contract to be drawn up, in addition to the Serbian language, and in a language that the consumer understands. That is why I urge you to accept this SNS amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44601	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44602	The longest according to the text of the amendment will have the shortest explanation because everyone who has been referred to this matter is well known for missing a whole section of the consumer credit contract, where the largest number of citizens has been damaged or suffered the consequences of those fine letters, those provisions of the contract where the changes are carried out by a higher body, which is one general practice. As Parliament, the NBS has always asked for the right to withdraw money and spend it as they please, and we guarantee and answer. The boards of directors in banks would like to ask between the two congregations for all acts of business policy, while they decide what they can do in the meantime. In the same way, all those who provide financial services to consumers once give you a contract and then retain the right to, by pointing out that contract anywhere, in some public opinion, on some advertising board, change the terms of your life as they come to mind, change the deadlines for payments, course and always be in a more unfavourable position as a user of credit. We all know the weight of matter, we all know how important time is, in the sense that it prevents that abuse I've talked about in the name of the SNS here a hundred times. It's not the governor's job to put on a credit calculator website, it's not his job to ask us to take credits and just wonder if in dinars or francs, and now that the government's indemnity, individuals and businesses are so high, we pretend to be ignorant and say, individualism in capitalism means that everyone is responsible for their own decisions in life. Getting someone to take credit or buy what they don't need, convincing them they'll have a job, that they'll be able to pay it off easily, now nothing. In order to delay these self-wills in the area of financial services, the entire consumer protection section in the area of consumer credit is withdrawn from the basic law, with the obligation of the NBS to regulate it separately, differently and more responsibly. I told a joke, and it's not a joke, it's applicable to this area. My colleague talks to the real story about the man who promised his wife a coat, it's winter, minus 32, but he says – until I have the money to buy my wife a coat, because I'm a real husband, she's gonna go in a sweater, even if she freezes to minus 32 degrees. The People's Bank and the Proposer of this law, by extracting people from the abuse of banks, lising and financial houses, leaves citizens to freeze their empty bills. This really isn't hyperbole, it's not a descriptive assessment like yours here, what's usually used as a matter of personal consumption, it's really the most concrete and urgent need to be solved. I don't want to talk about concrete solutions, because they've been taken over by the basic law. And this was contained in it. Who has persuaded whom to postpone this, which was motivated by the one who agreed to speak, should someone be explained today? I think citizens are too mature and too responsible to accept an excuse that just because we think of them as someone competent, such as the NBS, it regulates it. How many bodies do their work, as many people who are really in charge of their work, say the Constitutional Court and its burden on the requirements for the assessment of constitutionality, speak unfair laws of which many suffer and say the formulation that we can no longer say that something is good because it is legal, because the laws have lost not only justice, but God and logic. This law without this section loses the logic of consumer protection laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44603	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric and Judita Popovic. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44604	Dear Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the summary of today's debate could be next – the NBS and the Government had to find a way and a solution to how this area of consumer credit could be inserted into this consumer protection law. But they didn't do it. The LDP has submitted an amendment to a whole chapter 11, which concerns consumer loan contracts. We felt it was necessary to regulate consumer credit under this law. Serbia does not have a law that regulates consumer loans. Therefore, there is no legal regulation regarding the protection of the use of consumer credits. For this reason, this amendment of ours actually refers to the obligations of the lender. For this reason, we have defined how advertising of the loan offered is done – notice and other obligations that precede the conclusion of the consumer loan contract; pre-contractual notification obligations; pre-contractual notification obligations in the case of overaccounts; consultation and credit assessment obligations of the consumer. Then, we defined the consumer credit agreement, contract form, mandatory contract elements, interest rate changes, the consequences of notification obligation violations, the right to unilateral termination of the contract, the termination of the contract concluded indefinitely, early repayment, related contracts, the settlement of claims, the approved overpayment of accounts, credit intermediaries, the award for intervention, the debt delay of consumers, the delay of payments, the request for repayment of the total amount of credit, the restrictions. So, look at how many opportunities there are for regulation of certain rights and obligations of the borrower, and at the very least for consumers. Only by clear regulation can we define which rights are consumer rights, the one that takes the consumer's credit. Without it, there is no protection for consumers, no protection for those who are forced or wanted to take that loan. If we are not in the positive regulations of this regulation, we must make it up. For this reason, the LDP, by submitting this amendment, actually supported only the EU directive, its content regarding consumer loans, as well as the observations and proposals of the consumer association, because we felt that only those two relevant factors could define and explain how consumer rights can be protected. So without that, there is no adequate protection, and without adequate protection we cannot talk about consumer protection. Therefore, consumer rights cannot only be limited to the consumption of certain goods in a trade, but they are much wider rights, which, above all, cover these consumer loans, because it is the only way we can define the amount of consumer credit, the conditions under which it is taken, the interest rates and in fact the price of that credit. Without that, there is no clarity, and in this case, if there is no clarity, obviously one of these will profit, and that is certainly not the consumer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44605	Members of the 123rd amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together by Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44606	Respected citizens of Serbia, what I hold in my left hand, that is the bill on consumer protection. Look at the size of that piece of paper. So it's just paper, so it shows how serious this law is. What I hold in my right hand are 22 amendments to the New Serbia parliamentary group. The DSS colleagues also lectured amendments concerning actually returning these provisions to the consumer loan contract. In order not to overexhaust our citizens, I will use the time of the authorised representative and the parliamentary group to explain this first amendment that actually concerns the title, and this discussion should explain the other amendments (21). Of course, I will also use the opportunity to comment on some of the amendments during further discussions. What I mean at first is that I'm not a person who believes in coincidences, and especially not when it comes to political life. I really don't think it's an accident that this consumer protection law, in fact the law on the protection of politicians in power, is pulling around the Assembly about October 5th. It's no coincidence that for the last 10 years of October 5th, he's never been as resolutely defended as he is today. Probably because he's finally dead today. According to Zeljko Cvianovic, even Boris Tadic had the need to confess that they are not telling the truth those who say that before the coup it was better. Of course, that's what he said on the hot terrain of his party's main board, today probably the largest possible gathering of Serbs who went hand in hand that in the 1990s they have nothing and that today they have everything, and that neither one of them has invented a cure for cancer or marmalade for the past 10 years, nothing that could mean any value. This world, which in its sum, sought the top management of any domestic company, has a particularly strong reason today to defend October 5th. Another reason is that they would spend what they earned in peace, so they would not annoy foreigners who paid dearly for that date. It is no coincidence that in the government, they are pulling out a match on who will be the advocacy defender of consumer protection laws in front of the Assembly. Seems like everyone in this government understands trade and services very well. How not if the Ministry of Trade and Services is actually part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and with the mantra that Europe has no alternative to foreign policy based on trade and services. Therefore, the law does not defend one but the other Milosavljevic, who has shown success in the vaccine trade and who I do not see at the moment, is probably justifiably absent. The Minister of Infrastructure is scheduled to appear. All we're missing is the Minister of Sports and Youth, so that things are really transparent. The only person who could defend all these laws, however, cannot multiply in sufficient numbers to cover all important areas of social life. It's not our George Clooney Superman, so he can get on TV as a carrier on October 5th, to a kind of secret dinner in honor of the same event, to meet with all those white-world women of authority who have received it so far, but it's a little bit of an increase in pressure on the consumer by coming to issue a new consumer loan with three contract items. First, Serbia's immediate entry into NATO. Secondly, support for the abolition of Republika Srpska. Third, a continuation of internal decentralisation, which will allow the creation of a country-wide formation with the Muslim majority in Raska. Why isn't the congregation talking about such an important law, I also showed visually its weight, began to discuss it earlier? Why do consumer associations view this law as a ban law instead of consumer protection? What about a whole chapter on consumer loans? The answer is clear. As we deal with ordinary citizens, who are more spent than consumers, there is a big new trade going on with Mrs. President of the United States. Because what would she suddenly draw on her way to Belgrade, citing as a formal reason for the trip that Condoleezza Rice could do through several phone calls and why would she come to tell President Tadic what Vice President Biden had already announced to him in May 2008? Because a new mix of cards has begun, a new trade in spending services in the Balkans. So while we're waiting to see what kind of tickets we've been assigned, we have something to deal with -- consumers, gay parades, farms. Little is the house – the business, the business – the house or, even more currently in Serbia, given the numerous employees – the house-house, the house-house. In addition to the above reasons for devising not only this assembly, but also the real life needs of Serbian citizens, I have reason to doubt that the minister who disappears, the trading resort, is not present today, although he was here on Monday, because in the meantime, a question has been raised publicly by his savior, Boss Misko or some other owner, since the citizen's savior is obviously not. The minister who wants to put the consumer in the centre and focus of the universe is the same one whose proposal last year, with 40 billion dinars of credit, funded trade chains to pay off debts to suppliers. However, the money is gone, suppliers fail, the Ministry of Trade and Milosavljevic do not know where that money is, and Delta has easily escaped from the crisis. Danilo Sukovic, a member of the Anti-Corruption Council, said the money was eaten by a cat and all of this suggests that it was corruption. If the money was taken from the budget, the citizens should know where he is and who he ended up with. It is unacceptable to hide such a thing, but the legislation in our country works so that the machinations are and as far as possible, Sukovic explained, stressing that the secrecy of the Ministry of Trade contributes to claims that they are dirty business. This is not the first time that Slobodan Milosavljevic is pushing his back for Miskovic. In 2007, Delta disputed the Commission's decision to protect competition that it is a monopolies, thanks to the document created by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, headed by Milosavljevic. To make the irony bigger, a document drawn up in the co-operation of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce with the company for economic research "Conzit", one of the owners of the wife of Shop Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, Katarina Andrić Milosavljevic. In all of this, Nemanja Nenadić, the programme director of Transparency, says – and that no one asked, they should have published a list of companies that had paid off part of the interest, since the state had to pay out money based on certain documents and contracts that clearly show how much credit the company took. So, there is no story that banks are the ones who lend credit and decide on the choice of clients, and that the ministry is not obliged to have that information. What can be learned from this previous story about Miskovic's savior is also the answer to the question of why the Consumer Protection Bill disappeared from the consumer credit directive contained in the draft law. This area was to be regulated by the Consumer Protection Bill, which included the EU directive, which you so swear, which regulates the area of financial services and consumer credits that abolishs the possibility of unilaterally changing bank contractual obligations. The new consumer protection law provided for when and under what conditions the bank can change interest, and that the client has the right to give up credit after 15 days if he changes his mind. However, this provision was withdrawn from the bill, at the request of the NBS. Because, according to a well-known explanation, the area of consumer credit should be regulated by a special law, whose production will begin after the adoption of consumer protection laws, which means that citizens will be subject to the danger that banks will unilaterally change the terms of the contract and the level of interest, i.e. they will be left at the mercy of banks. Serbia thus remains the only country in the region that has no regulation to protect citizens' rights in debt with banks, although, as we know, complaints about bank work are growing. The new governor Dejan Soskic admitted that, but who makes him interfere in his business and care for consumers. After all, when citizens are constantly getting information about banks that can be subdued under the category of unfair business, why has the NBS never once appointed the banks that the citizens are complaining about, so that they know who to avoid in the future. To tell the truth also shows this letter from the Association of Consumers of Serbia entitled "People's MPs, be on the side of consumers". It is a memo sent to all parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament, which warns us to return to the consumer protection law of the consumer credit provision. Based on what they said, we have made amendments that should return these provisions and thus achieve the protection of consumers in Serbia. Because a very important issue for consumers in Serbia, as well as in another part of the world, is in fact a matter of credit, especially in terms of crisis, which in Serbia is not only global economic, it is not only SEKA, but DEKA – the domestic economic crisis that preceded the global economic crisis, and that Serbian citizens definitely have to go into loans and debt slavery, because it is no longer a question of whether they will buy anything but whether they will have the opportunity to survive. At numerous seminars organised by EU representatives in Belgrade to convey experience in their work and proposals for legal solutions for certain areas, the topic was just consumer loans. Of course, the Centre of Consumers of Serbia has asked the competent ministry to return this directive to the draft, but the ministry has apparently been deafened. Our amendments to the return of this provision on consumer loans have been rejected. The amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting Amendment 2, so turn one 452 pages and come to this amendment: the amendment spoken of by Ambassador Aleksandra Jankovic is rejected for the reason of concept nature, the matter will be regulated by a special regulation. So, all that the Association of the Banks of Serbia and the Consumer Associations and MPs of different parliamentary groups have said is invalid, it is only important to respect the reasons for the concept nature and to follow the promise again – the honorable Titus pioneering word, now we are going to make this new very special law. However, regulation of financial services must remain part of consumer protection laws for every reasonable person, until the NBS finally adopts a special law that has been announced for five years. No one would really be angry if, during this transitional period, the consumer protection law regulated the issue of consumer loans. This is how consumers are left just to call the National Bank and complain. In addition, consumer loans are short-term, and the new law requires better regulation of long-term loans, primarily housing. So there's no reason other than the dirty business of politicians and their favorite tycoons, to leave banks with the possibility of discreetly deciding to increase interest rates, but only to reduce them. Investments are a minor problem because it is mostly clear to citizens what they are, but the terms of credit must be clearly indicated in the contract, because people do not tend to read those fine print footnotes. The lack of consumer credit provisions that consumers would be protected from the failure of banks did not just run into the dissatisfaction of the Consumers Association that I was talking about, but also the dissent of the Association of Banks of Serbia, which appeared in a statement that said it is incorrect for both banks and banks to be excluded from the bill without a clear and reasoned explanation. Such a move gives the NBS the basis to speculate in public on motives, which causes major damage to banks. It is not only that, according to the Banks' Association, the banking sector has not in any way influenced, nor contributed to the lack of a consumer credit provision, but banks are in fact vitally interested in the adoption of laws which, as soon as possible, would correctly establish the rules on which they would operate, thus ensuring that consumer rights are better protected. For the first seven months of this year, a total of 607 complaints arrived at the NBS Centre for Consumers of Financial Services, 80% of which were related to bank work. At the expense of the NBS banks, 485 objections arrived, which is 13% higher compared to the same period last year. Of that, 43% of the objections apply precisely to loans and 22% to current accounts and 14% to payment cards. According to the Association of Banks of Serbia, as of 31 August this year, consumer loans amounted to 36,068 citizens of Serbia. In order to prevent debt slavery, it is necessary for banks to abolish the possibility of a discretionary change in interest rates. What is also clear is that there are opportunities to protect consumers from the will and assessment of banking management, i.e. In order for this latter to avoid costs of its inability to counter the future movement on the market to be shifted to the most frequently weak economically addressed consumer, it is necessary to really strictly regulate the possibility of changing the nominal and effective interest rates, and what is very important, it is also relatively easy to do. In order for Serbia to really not become an EU dump and the rest of the world, because there are often goods on our market that would otherwise go into recycling or return to the manufacturer, it is necessary to think in the interests of citizens, that the state is thinking in the interests of citizens, or consumers. This would mean that it itself removes its monopolies, because when there is any monopoly on the market, the product is usually more expensive and less quality. But instead of working to eliminate monopolies and conflicts of interest, the Ministry of Trade also involved in the work of the NGO sector, so it established a Consumer Protection Centre at the ministry itself. It is nowhere in the world, because consumers organize themselves, by controlling both the state and the application of the law. This is where the state controls itself. The executive power is in Serbia, but not under the authority of the Serbian state, but some other power centres. So we return to the beginning and visit the distinguished lady, who is coming to us on October 12th. So we are in a hurry to declare all of this, so that not only the shahs are closed, but also the channels of communication of citizens with their representatives, since this part of trade and services will have to go relatively undetected. In a new mix of tickets to Serbia, the United States will continue to hold the South Wing control package in its hands and further strengthen its military control over a geopolitically important space. The EU will strengthen the presence in an area representing the continental soft stomach, an important traffic route linking it to Asia Minor, but also a corridor for illegal immigrants from all over the Middle East. Turkey strengthens its influence on Muslim landscapes, and economic activities penetrate the rest of the peninsula, accounting for the West, as has already been the case in history, to give up this part of the world for concessions and assistance on some other sides, and to help Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44607	National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Donka Banović and Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the same text to the 125th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44608	This is usually the first amendment in a whole series of amendments submitted by the DSS, which concerns the introduction of a new chapter, which bears the name – Consumer Loan Contracts and the first member, where the subject and the concept of consumer credit are explained. The bill promoter has several ways to return this whole chapter that went missing from draft to proposal to government. The parliamentary groups proposed different amendments, different forms and methods. Some parliamentary groups have classified this whole chapter and all these amendments through one amendment. The DSS and NS did it by member. You have several ways to make this law really a consumer protection law, not a law on the protection of banks and a law on the protection of traders from consumers. The colleagues who spoke before me explained why this law is not really a consumer protection law anymore, but, for example, a law on the protection of banks or traders from consumers. This proposal has been working for two years. We could read that two million euros were spent on public debate and drafts and on the assistance that the ministry, then representatives of the association, or the consumer union, received from the EU, in addition to material assistance, to install all EU directives that are essential for consumer protection. Everything was fine. You've agreed on a particular draft. You have installed this directive bearing the name 2008/48, which fully regulates the area of consumer loans. So from draft to proposal in the government somehow the consumer credit chapter disappeared. In this proposal, which we are talking about, dear citizens, there is no word about consumer loans, or you consumers of different financial services will remain completely unprotected when it comes to this broad spectrum of financial services. I'm saying this for the citizens, because when we held a debate in principle, it was a rerun of our debates around midnight that we did it, so I'm saying this because I know that people from the ministry and the minister, and he's already informed himself about what the problem is, and MPs know the problem well. Otherwise, again because of the citizens, our synonym "user credit" for us today has one narrow meaning. These are fixed-term off-balance sheet loans. That's our understanding of what a consumer loan is. However, through this directive, which is not included, it has much broader meaning and many financial services are included. It's not just that ordinary consumer credit we all know is what it is. My colleague confused me because she read a statement from the Association of Banks, where they are fenced and said – we did not exert any pressure, then it remains only that the NBS who has put enough pressure on your ministry to eliminate the entire consumer credit chapter. Why the NBS did it, I don't know. Generally, Serbian citizens will continue to be unprotected, so banks that provide various financial services here will be able to do whatever they want, or do what they cannot in their home countries, what they cannot do in France, Hungary, Greece, etc. You still, thanks to this bill, have left the citizens for mercy and mercy and the will of banks and other providers of financial services. The explanation you gave for why you refused and this amendment in line, which we will explain, is an explanation for another 50 amendments that the MPs have submitted, consisting of one sentence: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason of the concept of nature – matter will be regulated by a special regulation". I'm curious about what the concept is, so these amendments violate the nature of this concept. I am sorry that Mr. Free Milosavljevic is not here, because he could answer what is the concept where the provisions on consumer credit contracts violate that concept. Since the people of the Ministry can't answer us, we don't have the answers to the concept and the nature of it all. When it came to this law and our remarks in principle, then it was said, at least that's what they promised us from the National Bank of Serbia, and the promise can be a joy, that a special consumer credit law will be passed and that it is not convenient to enter these members and provisions through this law. Please, today it was said that you in this law regulated consumer protection in the exercise of the right of travel agreement. You know very well that many of these provisions are regulated in the Tourism Act, so you don't say it's too much now. Then why did you even get into it? You didn't mind that, but now you're bothered by a law, and we're just going to see it, which will regulate that area, so now you don't want us to get involved in this if we don't spoil the concept of this law. The concept is that you have acted unfairly towards citizens, that you have deceived them for two years because you have claimed that Serbian citizens as consumers will be protected as well as consumers in Europe or in the EU. So it's a hoax. We'll see if the National Bank of Serbia deceives both citizens and you. This law shall enter into force on 1 January. Minister Milosavljevic told the Committee that by the new year we will have the new law, which the National Bank of Serbia will do, and we will see. We'll keep reminding you of this. Otherwise, we have submitted amendments to each member, so we will explain them. We are going to do this for the citizens, so that citizens can hear through every member of what this government and this ministry have decided to leave out, that is, what kind of protection they could have through this bill, and they won't, because you decided to disappear from draft to bill a whole chapter. I will also appeal to fellow MPs who know what I'm talking about, follow the discussion, read, follow in the media, have been on board, and for European integration, where people from the Consumers' Association and the Consumer Union have brought everyone and the written material, so all MPs are absolutely aware that this is not good, so I urge them to think about what they are going to do in the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44609	The amendment, which was added after Article 123v by Article 123g in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44610	I must warn you, Madam President, that you made one mistake reading the first amendment of 123a, where Mrs Jankovic reported, since the amendment was in the same text. After that you did not allow, you actually skipped to give the opportunity to the DSS parliamentary group, which also submitted the amendment in the same text. According to my calculations, we are now on v, article 123v. I'm sorry, but I've been following up on what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44611	There you go, you're talking to a v, but there's just no sign-up on the monitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44612	It's a little awkward because we've marked the letters, trying to make a whole new chapter, and probably, like us, when we got along, we've been stealing your mistake. So, in this chapter after Chapter 10, which the DSS parliamentary group asked to enter, we searched and we put the title – Consumer Credit Contracts. I keep hearing one of the government's representatives speak, and, indeed, by my colleagues in the ruling structure, they like to say that they adopt European laws that are in line with European practice and follow European directives. I must warn that here a large European directive has completely disappeared and completely skipped, and it is called – European Directive 2008/48. The directive regulates the issue of consumer loans and regulates the issue of consumer relations with banks and financial institutions. It was perfectly natural for it to also be found in this law, because it is a very important area and there consumers are particularly exposed to abuses or reduction of their rights, and that is what consumers in Serbia have shown in this survey – this area is elsewhere. So, firstly, relations with the state, which proved to be very unfavourable for consumers, secondly financial services, are therefore relations with financial institutions, banks and a particular area of consumer credit. However, I must warn my colleagues who will vote, because they have always voted at the expense of Serbian citizens, I must warn them of one thing. In Europe, the very banks that are now in Serbia and which have come to Serbia these years are operating. However, they do not operate there in the way they do business in Serbia. There is a directive applied there, there is regulation concerning consumer relations with banks and financial institutions and they cannot unilaterally change the terms of credit, they cannot raise their interest there without asking clients for it. They can't afford not to agree on all that. Unfortunately, in Serbia, consumers, who have a relationship with banks and financial institutions or who have raised consumer loans, are not as protected as in Europe from the same banks. Here the banks really change the conditions very unilaterally, not asking anyone, the interest rises very quickly and truly to heavenly heights, and the state obviously does not need to prevent it, but even brings us to a situation that a whole chapter, which has just been presented as a big and important innovation, and it has been, disappears within a very short time before it appears before the MPs. My colleague Donka Banovic wondered what concept we are corrupting if we are meeting consumers, or citizens of Serbia and consumer associations? Maybe I could try to figure out what the concept is. It is a concept by which this government does not care at all about the citizens of Serbia, who are all consumers. This government cares about the tycoons they made and the tycoons paying for their parties. It's a concept we're trying to spoil. Yeah, right. The Democratic Party of Serbia wants the concept to spoil for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44613	Amendment to which, after Article 123v, the amendment shall be made. adds the title, so a new member of 123g, in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44614	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tried to regulate an area in the Consumers Act that has been completely kicked out of the law by introducing a new chapter. In what way and for what reason, we've heard a lot of arguments. Mr. Minister and Madam President, to comment on this amendment has made me one thing, because Madam President of Parliament, visiting on TV B92, said that it is the right time to submit to the amendment and that all reasoned proposals will be discussed in the parliamentary debate. Madam President, there is an interesting sentence, a way of advertising the National Library of Serbia, where it writes – whoever reads wins, wonderful. But, Madam President, what should we do with those who don't read? I think they're winning right now. I'll prove it to you. So you weren't there when you talked about Article 20. So, the two identical amendments submitted by SRS Member Lidija Dimitrijevic, who was rejected because the concept does not fit the law and the same amendment submitted by Mrs Donka Banovic, which says is technically incorrect. So the same words, same everything. This is a sign that whoever does not read, he will win at this time. That's the essence of this law. Now that you have such a response from the Government, which so answers the amendment that it is technically incorrect, and the other -- identically technically correct and conceptually not fit, then it is clear that the government has not dealt with any amendments seriously. Another kind of surprise, where I was simply found, that Mr. Minister of Health, Mr. Milosavljevic, defends the consumer law. Mr. Minister, I don't want to believe that you're a bad trader, but it seems to me that you're a cheated consumer, because how else do we explain, Mr. Minister, how are we going to do now, how do we get back and what do we do with hundreds of thousands of vaccines we haven't spent? We've heard from you that we're going to give them to an undeveloped African country, and now it's October 7th, October 31st, and the simple question is, who's going to receive these vaccines that are due? One budget spending measured by millions of euros was obtained and obtained. What do we do now? So, you're, then, ministers, cheated, I say, I just can't believe it. The essence at the end of this amendment may be the best rule I've said in the principle debate, that before this law, a law should be passed to protect consumers and citizens from such authorities and such a government. What makes me say that? I'm saying because you have a series of articles here, they say, interest like at the market. In one bank, it's so much for overruns, with another bank, it's so much, and it reminds me overwhelmingly, Madam President, of a time when your party was an alpha and an omega of state policy. Do you know where you were getting your loans then? At the market. Like those dealers, your interest was at one 20%, the other 30%, at the third 40%. It reminds me of this condition. Throwing out an area like this in this law, you create absolute preconditions to go back to those times, so, in the 1990s. It's the politics of this government. Now what do we do? Socially responsible government. Here's how socially responsible the government is. That's what the best citizens feel on their backs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44615	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which adds the title and new member 123d to the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly by Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic and Mr. Pejcic want a word. First Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44616	First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that all MPs have received such a funny poster from the Ministry of Trade and Services, where, in fact, the Ministry is trying to give information that is very important to the consumer and the trader. Very funny. "A smile doesn't cost anything, and it provides much. He who asks does not wander. Clean bill – long love. You can hear a good voice far away. A nice word and an iron door opens. "Of course, we also have these color brochures, which is also very, very interesting. It looks a little infantile, but it's not bad. It's better to be available to everyone. Promotional travel. So many nice things. "Are you tired of your surroundings, people, always the same weather opportunities? Maybe you're ready to take a break and run away for a while. You don't have any money? "This is like for ministers to be written. Let's see here, phone quizzes, then extorted shopping, so mobile telephony, electronics store, consumer cards, hidden expenses, even that's what the Department of Trade and Services has us up to. Here, over 100,000 tunes in our free download offer, send a text message to xxxxx and the desired tune will be sent to your mobile phone. Don't hesitate, this offer will expire soon. So the Ministry warns us of various possible frauds, which is fine. Because, indeed, a well-informed buyer is someone who can definitely make it easier to decide. So long before it sells anything, each trader will have to pass one serious course and inform consumers of all payment, service, guarantee, delivery time, prices with included taxes and taxes, possibilities for termination of the contract and a possible deposit, and if any of these fails to indicate, the buyer will be able to terminate the contract. Of course, he'll have to explain how the vacuum cleaner works, how the stove works. I don't know what will happen to those who sell planes. The merchants will have a really serious obligation to inform customers about everything and everything. Definitely, joking aside, informing consumers is something that is very important. When you were giving money to print these pamphlets and what we used to see in the elevators – how not to jump on the elevator, we now got this, how to behave in the store. Perhaps it was good to consider and some obligation of pre-contractual notification regarding consumer loans. So, it's wonderful that people are going to get these pictures, but what's serious is they still won't know how to respond to hidden bank traps if they leave out that pre-contractual notification obligation. So, both my colleague and I insist that until the decision-making process, so until the final vote, you kind of think about it. We're all consumers here. We all have very similar problems. We know what problems our citizens face. Let's not put the citizens of Serbia in a worse situation than the ones in which they are, although it seems almost impossible. Let us return what is necessary, and these are provisions concerning consumer credit contracts. So in order to protect people from fraud, we don't need to tell them how different operators or online operators are doing, giving them and offering them different opportunities that they'll end up paying well. Let us do what is in our jurisdiction, which is that, at the request of the reference institutions, such institutions are still some consumer associations, we urge the Government to introduce a whole chapter that is missing, perhaps by some technical error of a concept nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44617	The word is Mr. Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, ministers and representatives of the Government, I must say that I am sorry that there is no Mr. Milosavljevic, the other responsible for talking about trade and tourism, but he is not here, and you, Mr. Minister, have no mandate to accept our amendments, and our amendments are too perfect and provide a completely different concept than you have offered us. I would like to inform you, Madam President, that the Committee on Trade and Tourism has not been held, although the committees have changed and complemented, although most of them have a majority on boards, we do not have a report on this law and these amendments. I just want to let you know that you have that in mind, and even though we've changed committees, you still don't have a majority. You have an obstruction on the boards. Here are three days we are discussing this consumer protection law and, believe me, it is an extraordinary response and attention to all people, citizens of Serbia, some associations, associations dealing with this problem, they are interested and we see that opposition parliamentarians are involved in the controversy, I don't know who, because there is no minister, and they speak in vain, telling Serbian citizens how this law should look. Since this is also the constitutional obligation of the state to protect consumers, and in addition to this law that needs to be passed, and we have previously passed in 2005, there are laws many others, as well as on bond relations, environmental protection, competition protection, and these are assumptions that are there to protect consumers and citizens of Serbia in one economic way. The DSS has submitted about 60 amendments and I am sorry that you accepted only one amendment of those amendments that we have submitted. They are extremely correct and good amendments and provide a whole new concept of this law, for the simple reason that citizens have complained to us, and many associations. We wanted to help you with these amendments to get out of the deadlock, to be clean to the citizens of Serbia, but I see that you have not accepted the amendment, you have accepted only one technical nature of Ms. Milice Vojic Markovic and thus sent a message to the public that you are not interested in the interests of the citizens at all. When it comes to this amendment, we wanted the pre-negotiation of the notice regarding the consumer loan and the lender, which is the banks, to forward the loan to the borrower within 14 days before the conclusion of the contract, so that he could look at the terms and maybe change the bank. The second thing, these terms that the bank sends to the consummation must not be charged, should not be taxed. It's one of the amendments. In the course of the debate, we will prove to you that we were right, and you will convey all this to Minister Milosavljevic, perhaps in the day of the vote, they will vote for some amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44619	The amendment, which adds a new title and a new 123a member to the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44620	What is important to us in this part of the text, in this article that we have titled 123j. This is the obligation of pre-contractual notification in the event of over-accounting. So, one of the things where really consumers of banking loans are and how they were denied in our country and we thought that this amendment, which is quite long, but which I sincerely hope is read by at least the people of the ministry and nodded and said it was okay, although they did not accept it, is very important for the citizens of Serbia. When you do not accept all this we have written, when you do not accept this amendment, and you say it is called – consumer protection law, while doing so to remove the basic protection mechanism under their feet, remove it from the law, I do not understand what you call that law – the consumer protection law. It is something that is absolutely unauthorized to anyone who calls themselves a pro-European government, because Serbian citizens are now and with such a bill are far below the level of protection of EU consumers with consumer credits. It's a fake and no one can deny it. I'm experiencing today, and it often happens that today nobody said anything negative about our amendments, except what the promoter wrote. I deeply believe that only dialogue can solve differences, different views. When you have a situation where there is no dialogue, or everyone is watching and silent, you understand, I am talking to citizens of Serbia, consumers, not in this society, in this government, there is no one in this assembly who wants to protect your rights without being here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44621	The word is Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44622	I only have one comment under this amendment regarding the government and one question for you, President of the Assembly. The question regarding the government is why are these public debates being held? For what reason do you spend money on these poor and spent citizens of Serbia, making public debates on draft laws, when nothing that is in these public debates is later respected and not included in the text of the law itself. Here, Lazar Srdanov, secretary of the New Sad Association of Intermunicipators, said in his own time that it is necessary to introduce a category of consumer contracts, because these categories of contracts are not included in the Bond Relations Act. The same thing is said by Jovan Beara, president of a business association, who also uses, or speaks of what I have mentioned that it would be good if there were an independent body, some centre for solving, or an independent consumer counseling centre, not something that would be under the supervision of the Ministry of Trade, because it is absolutely impossible for the Ministry to control itself. When you look at a huge number of comments from participants in these public debates, the question is, what is it that the government is handling? Do you respect not only the MPs, but the people of the profession, as well as the citizens of Serbia? Question for you, President of the Assembly, what do we need the Public Service if it can shut down the transmission, so you don't let us know, so maybe you don't? At this point, the transfer to the Public Service, owned by Mr Tijanic, is gone. I don't know if it's some kind of service trade, which is what it's all about, whether it's a consumer loan that the Assembly was uninformed about, but what's the fact that it's not, that you didn't mention it to us, and I highly suspect that you didn't know anything about it, because Mr. Tijanic is doing whenever he wants, and when he wants something, he wants exactly what he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44623	Mrs Jankovic, we had information and she was from the chairman available to all MPs that we would be in direct transmission by 17.55 p.m. The delayed transmission will go after the completion of some sports event, I don't know which one it is. So we are obliged to provide the public with work, and the public can also be realised through delayed transmission. That information went to the MPs and I was informed this time. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new 123a member in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44624	This time I didn't ask for a word at all, but now I wonder if I have a memory problem or if there are most opposition MPs in this room. I really don't remember, Madam Chairman, that you informed us today. It's possible it's some kind of oversight, but what I heard from my colleagues was that we weren't informed. It's nice that Mr. Tijanic informed you, he likes to do it one-on-one, but what's not nice is that the rest of us didn't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44625	Before I gave my word to Mrs. Donki Banovic, he was informed by the chairman, Mr. Nikola Novakovic. If we haven't informed you, it's our fault, I'm really sorry, here's what I'm doing with a delay right now. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44626	This is an amendment that introduces a member bearing the name – Obligation to advise and assess the creditworthiness of the consumer. They have some kind of bank practice that you can go and consult about the type of credit, the amount, etc., but it's all optional practice, and in order to be able to make an assessment, for example, in which bank to raise some kind of credit, for that, at the very least, you need to finish an economic college. So it's all like that to people who aren't from that area quite vaguely. If that practice were not to be from the bank to the bank different, somewhere complete, somewhere incomplete, this article would introduce a commitment to consumer advice and credit assessment. Therefore, the obligation for each bank to do so with consumers, i.e. with its clients. The first position of this member is one general provision which says that the creditor is obliged to give the consumer advice on whether the requested, or the loan offered corresponds to his needs and assets and to inform him of the essential features of a particular credit. However, when the total amount of credit exceeds the sum of three million dinars, then the creditor is obliged to deliver his opinion and advice in writing. The second point is that the bank, i.e. the financial service provider, is obliged to assess the creditworthiness of the consumer, so that it can properly advise it, i.e. that the citizen, or consumer, would not fall into a debt crisis. Of course, this search is done through appropriate databases, and individual data, i.e. citizens, protects the Data Protection Act. The costs of this search, i.e. credit assessment, shall be borne by the creditor rather than by the consumer. Then, for example, the position of the 6th member we propose is that, in the event that he refuses to conclude a credit agreement with the consumer, the creditor is obliged that the consumer is on time and not later than 14 days after the refusal of notification of the reasons for rejection. So, not only to inform you that you can't raise a loan, but also to state the reasons. All costs for the process are borne by the lender, not by the consumer. I think that citizens know what I'm talking about, that really, when it comes to this area, and how counseling is needed, although, for example, Serbia does not belong to countries where citizens do not settle loans, there is a high percentage of citizens who in time settle loans compared to countries in the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44627	The amendment, which adds a new title and member 123z to the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. Mrs. Vojić Markovic please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44628	Looks like we've managed to confuse you and ourselves. But I hope that we will not confuse the citizens of Serbia, who clearly recognize who cares about protecting their rights, who cares about limiting those rights. Since this amendment applies to the form of a consumer loan contract, I want to read something very important, which is a study of the secret customers of the Association of Consumers of Serbia. Most of the ten banks surveyed in Serbia do not provide clear and accurate information on the conditions for granting credit, especially on the conditions for changing interest rates. This makes it impossible for financial service users to make a good choice and make a rational decision on taking loans, research published by the Association of Consumers of Serbia results. It's interesting that this isn't about some banks that are unknown, but it's about banks that are also known, bank branches: Bank Inteza, Commercial Bank, Raiffeisen Bank, Hipo Alpe Adria Bank, Euro Bank, Unicredit Bank, Agro-Industrial Commercial Bank, Nis, Sociate General Bank, Vojvodjanska Banka, Folks Banka. There's one thing that's very interesting here is that we wrote this amendment. At the request of clients to provide a draft loan contract to be studied in detail at home, five out of 20 branches answered yes, five out of 20. So 25% of the banks met that condition. That is why this amendment is important, and how important it is, but since you don't care at all about protecting consumers in relation to banks and financial institutions, that is, when it comes to consumer loans, it is clear to me that, if you haven't read this, you could have said it – no, if you have read it, I believe that you have intimately agreed to this, although I am asking this as a question, I don't know who. Mr. Minister, I really appreciate that he's here today, but it's totally ridiculous his purpose, if he's asking himself why he's sitting here except to introduce himself to the government. People from the ministry, who probably did these laws, although I see a large list of associates here, they're bored, they chat, because they can't chat with us, and then it's a vicious circle where they lose Serbia's consumers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44629	The amendment, which was added after Article 123z, a new title and Article 123z in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44630	This article is about what and what the content of the consumer loan contract is and there are over six or seven points. I don't have time to count it all. Our current Liabilities Act, which was dated 1978, contains these specific requirements regarding the minimum content of the sales contract, with invoiced price and credit payments. But that's not enough. The current Consumer Protection Act of 2005, also provides for some minimum content of these consumer contracts, and we have tried to make the content much better, more transparent, more understandable, and to help people who sign such contracts much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44631	The amendment, which was added after Article 123 to the new title and Article 123i in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banović, Milica Vojic Markovic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Alexander Pejcic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44632	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, representatives of the government, we must at first find out, Madam Chairman, that Mr Nikola Novakovic has violated the Rules of Procedure, I am joking, and in absentia, he is not here now, he should be punished. When it comes to this law, Ms. Donka Banovic said this law should have been called a law on the protection of banks, not consumer protection. In fact, the National Bank put a great deal of pressure on the government, the ministry, the minister himself, Mr Milosavljevic, to remove a legal provision from the draft law that was discussed during the public debate, he adopted it, the government adopted and thus directly disproved consumers, citizens of Serbia. I will talk about the amendment that my colleagues and I have submitted, which talks about changing the interest rate, as a new member of 123, and it reads: 'To increase the nominal interest rate can only come if it is explicitly agreed, etc. The increase in the nominal interest rate produces a legal fact only if the consumer is informed of it. ''In fact, many banks are self-initiatively changing interest rates on their own. For these reasons, we wanted to install this amendment to protect consumers. Furthermore, the amendment says – when the provision of a consumer credit agreement points to data on changes in the interest rate available in the creditor's rooms or on its website, the increase in nominal interest rates produces legal facts, which is extremely important, and when the consumer is not directly informed about it. In this way, we wanted to protect our consumers, citizens of Serbia, who, by this draft law, are not protected, but are left to themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44633	Ambassador Aleksandra Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44634	First of all, Madam President, let me apologize for your need to apologize for Mr. Vice President Novakovic's behaviour. Meanwhile, I've been informed by consumers that the transfer is a female volleyball match between the Azotare team and Tent, which is the "Tent" team of the "Nikola Tesla" Termo Power Plant. Certainly more significant than the law on consumer protection going into direct transfer. But as for this amendment, the amendment adding a new member on the change in interest rate means, definitely, what I was talking about, to prevent me from abolishing debt slavery, it is necessary for banks to abolish the possibility of a discretionary change in interest rate. The right of a commercial bank is that in order to reduce the risk of business, i.e. to preserve its assets, it changes the interest rate to the borrowed assets during the duration of the loan. However, this right should not be a discretionary, i.e. business policy issue of a bank or an arbitrary assessment of trends in the world or domestic market. In order to protect the consumer from the will, i.e. the assessment of banking management, i.e. In order for this latter not to cost its inability to predict future market developments to be transferred to an economically uninformed consumer, it is indeed necessary that there is a strictly regulated possibility of changing the nominal and effective interest rate. It's pretty easy to do. The first option would be for interest on all loans to be fixed, or pre-arranged, and the matter would then be extremely simple. However, it is clear that this would lead banks to increased business uncertainty and in practice lead to the purchase of loans, means more interest, as this potential cost is then transferred to the consumer. Another possibility is that the change in interest rate is linked to changes in certain economic parameters that are not effectively controlled by the bank and not by consumers. It should be said that the resolution already uses a good part of the banks in Serbia and that it comes down to the binding of the variable part of the interest rate for the change of the euro, the libora, means the dollar, the euro, the Swiss, the belibora. It is about interest rates at which EU, US and Switzerland banks borrow short-term money, moving consumer prices in Serbia, etc. So, this provision would introduce uncertainty when it comes to consumer costs, but at least it would be protected from a self-employed credit person of the bank and possibly a business failure of the bank, perhaps even due to the errors of its management. These two ways of negotiating interest rates are quite common in the world and even on average the variable interest rate is shown to be a cheaper option for consumers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44635	The amendment, which was added to the new title and Article 123j in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44636	The title of this article is - the consequences of the notification obligation. So, we are predicting this member and talking about the consequences of the financial service provider unless it meets its full and quality obligation to inform consumers. Therefore, in the event that the consumer loan contract does not contain the mandatory content of the article I was just talking about, then the consumer may request that the contract be annulled within a year, but of course in case he did not start using the loan. Instead of revoking the contract, the consumer may require that the interest rate provided for by law or prescribed by the National Bank be applied to the consumer loan contract. The consumer is obliged to pay the cost of the loan only if it is explicitly agreed. It's the contents of this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44637	The amendment, which after Article 123j, adds a new title and Article 123k, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Mr. Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, representatives of the government, the Minister of Trade himself, Mr Milosavljevic said here that this draft law passed the public debate procedure and that there were about 12 round tables somewhere and he was as Minister of the Resorship Ministry and that he respected certain supplements, he received inputs from associations, associations, many legal persons, citizens of Serbia who were interested in making quality law because, he said, the old law appears to be anachron and does not use the present time. However, what was characteristic is that they had a completely different draft when the debate was held and that certain legal provisions were thrown out of the bill are just talking about a consumer loan. Just before, I was saying that the DSS MPs have certainly made an effort and enthusiasm to correct this law, but you, as representatives of the government and the government, have not accepted this amendment. It's about an amendment that speaks of the right to a unilateral breakup. In fact, the moment the consumer wants to break up a contract with the lender, i.e. with a certain interest, he must terminate the contract within 14 days, without any obligation that he would indicate and the reason for doing so. The period for one-sided account termination shall be calculated, under one, from the date on which the consumer credit agreement is concluded, under two, from the date on which the consumer has received a copy of the contract containing the mandatory content of Article 123 of this Act. Then, it is further said - for the purpose of ending the consumer credit contract, the consumer can use the contract termination form, the content of which is prescribed by the NBS. The following text of the amendment says - the consumer is obliged to return the principal and interest to the creditor within 30 days of the termination of the contract. The NBS prescribes a rule on the calculation of the interest that the consumer is obliged to repay in the event of termination. Most importantly, the creditor does not have the right to compensation for a unilateral consumer loan contract. This is how DSS MPs wanted to protect consumers. I'm sorry you didn't accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44639	The new title and new member 123l in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, who wants the word, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44640	We felt that a new title should be added: the termination of a contract concluded indefinitely. What made us decide this? In the practice of certain banks, the right to early payment of cash credits was often limited by imposing criminal costs, while partly early repayments were even disabled. As a result, it is necessary for the consumer to recognise the right to settle obligations in general or in part at any time on the basis of the loan agreement, with the right to cut credit costs. The new legal solution pointed out that the creditor does not have the right to compensation for the early payment of the account, when that payment is made in accordance with the loan insurance plan, or where the early payment does not exceed a million dinars, as well as a time limit within which the consumer has the right to repeat the early payment of the amount that is exceeded in this way. What's very important here? Our banks tend to simply not allow the consumer to terminate and terminate the contract at some point. With our amendment, we have made it clear what consumer obligations are in that direction and what is the obligation of the lender in that direction. So we say - the consumer has the right to terminate the consumer loan contract at a certain time at any time. It can be agreed that the consumer is obliged to leave the creditor a cancellation period which cannot be longer than a month. It can also be agreed to the creditor's right to terminate the contract indefinitely, leaving the consumer a two-month notice on paper or another permanent record bearer. The right of the creditor may be agreed to cancel the consumer's right to raise money on the basis of a consumer loan contract concluded indefinitely. The creditor is obliged to deliver the statement of termination to the consumer before firing on paper or other permanent record holder. There is really no reason not to accept the amendment and not to accept the concept that you have offered, consumers have accepted, associations and consumer associations, Serbian citizens have met, MPs vote and lobby this part of the hall that practically decides on this. As for the DSS MPs, we will vote for each amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44641	The new title and new member 123lj in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together by Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government's representatives, since there are no ministers, and I would welcome him, he is absent right now, the minister said in explaining this law that the constitutional obligation of Article 30 is also to protect consumers, and that this law must comply with the legislation of European countries, and I think that he has struck the form, the law will be passed, but the essence is not affected. This law does not protect our consumers, i.e. Serbian citizens. That is why the DSS has submitted a large number of amendments, especially in the area of consumer credit, and one of these amendments is this, it is about early repayment: "The consumer has the right to carry out its obligations on the basis of the loan agreement at any time, either in general or in part. In the case of early payment, the consumer has the right to reduce the total cost of the credit. The creditor shall not be entitled to compensation for the early payment of the account, when that payment is made with the loan insurance plan or where the early payment does not exceed a million dinars. The consumer has the right to repeat, at the end of 12 months, an early payment of a sum that does not exceed a million dinars, without obligation to pay the creditor's fee. We have that segment where we protect the interests of the bank. "In the case of early repayments exceeding one million dinars or payments before the expiry of the deadline laid down in Article 2, the creditor may not be entitled to more than 1%," means he has a certain fee, "for loans with more than one year left to last, and 0.5% for short-term loans". It's a legal solution that protects and lenders, i.e. banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44643	The new title and new member 123m in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mr. Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44644	Here's another massive response from the socially responsible government, that this amendment also doesn't fit the bill. What is the essence of this amendment? The essence of this amendment is that there is something related to consumer loan contracts. Our amendment provides that when the consumer terminates the contract on the sale of goods, that is to say, the provision of services ceases its obligations under the related consumer loan contract. There are certain sanctions provided for. Since this concept does not fit the law, it can only be interpreted in the following way. I remember a pre-election slogan – life cannot wait. This law says this - interest cannot wait. That's the essence of this law. So, the Socially Responsible Government. That this is what the following data show, that is, what it looks like today in Serbia. He says this - the citizen raises a loan, so he can't pay off, so he goes to raise a loan to refinance the loan, that's the current situation today, and in a few months he's going to be raising a loan to refinance the refinance, and he's coming into a state that would be completely understandable to the Minister of Health, and it's understandable to you, too, that's that vicious circle in medicine where there's no way out. It's a socially responsible government. In the end, I'm undermining again, it seems there's a rule here that anyone who doesn't read, he wins, unfortunately Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44645	The new title and new member 123n in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojić Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44646	We have added a title that reads the Indemnity of the claim, as well as a new Article 123n, which reads: "The consumer does not lose the right to consumer credit when the lender gives to the third person his claims under his contract. The transfer of the claim does not require the debtor's consent, but it is the creditor to inform the debtor of the adjustment made." So, we are very concerned with this information and we believe that things should be completely transparent or public and we are writing this amendment in this direction. We're deliberately reading our amendments because they're mostly short, so they can fit in these two minutes, and on the other hand we're reading them so the public can see how correct they are, not to the benefit of anyone, but simply to follow one science against which they obviously have something in the NBS, which should be the other way around. We're interested in what in this concept, which we're trying to put back into the law, bothers the NBS? It is not clear to us that for two years, practically, how long the public debate takes, this part that regulates the issue of consumer loans is in the law, but then magically loses itself and even 12 public debates afterwards fail to bring it back into the law. MPs, as they spoke in principle, also fail to get him back into the law. What is so problematic about a concept in which consumers should be protected against banks and financial institutions? What's so difficult if we need to regulate the question of consumer loans? We think that nothing is problematic, and precisely because there is no real reason it happens that each of us has an opinion which is why the NBS, which should be the national and bank of Serbia, simply in this part of the regulation wants to extend the bank robbery and simply does not want to protect Serbia's consumers from that robbery.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44647	The new title and new member of the 123j text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together by Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44648	This is practically the only member in this law that is dedicated to the approved overrun of the current account. So, not allowed overruns, but approved overruns of the current account. It fully integrates Directive 2008/48, which refers to the obligation to inform in the event of an approved overrun of an account and complements the solutions that exist in the Liabilities Act with regard to the notification of the current account contract. The purpose of this article, i.e. the amendment, is to clearly state the obligations of the creditor and what he is all obliged to inform the consumer. I will read – in the case of an approved over-account, the creditor is obliged to keep the consumer on paper or other permanent bearer regularly informed of the nominal interest rate and the conditions for its application, then of the reference rate for the initial nominal interest rate and its subsequent changes and the costs and conditions of their change. Then, if the monthly overrun of the account exceeds the total amount normally granted by the creditor to the consumer's account, at the monthly level, the creditor shall inform the consumer of the approved overrun, the amount of over-rate, the interest rate and the agreed cost and interest fees within three days.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44649	The amendment, which added a new title and a new member of 123o, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44650	We're going by the letters of the alphabet, so now we're talking about the letters - "o." Our amendment says we are adding a new title – the obligation of credit intermediaries to notify and consult, and a new member of 123o, which reads as follows: "The credit intermediary is obliged to offer to the consumer, if necessary, notifications and to provide appropriate advice in accordance with Article 123(3) and Article 123e of this Act, unless it is the seller of the goods or service provider who acts by accident as a credit intermediary. The credit intermediary contract must be made up of paper or other permanent record holder. The credit intermediary is obliged to inform the consumer of the scope of its powers, in particular whether it only operates with one creditor or a few, or performs as an independent broker’. As you can see, we're really trying to explain how correct the amendments we've written are. This really reminds me today of a replica from a film that is being rephrased a thousand times on our domestic televisions, and who says, "Who will rather give up: Sisif, stone or gods?" I don't know the answer to that question, but maybe the citizens of Serbia know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44651	The amendment, which added a new title and a new member of 123p, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mr. Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44652	This amendment provides for mediation, i.e. that the credit intermediary has the right to award for mediation only if he has informed the consumer of the amount and conditions for payment of the reward and if the consumer has agreed to this under the conditions laid down in Article 123z of this Act. What's this about? No one argues there should be a reward for that credit intermediary doing a certain kind of work, but what's going on with us? It happens to us that whoever is looking for a loan for some financial benefit is being deceived in an extremely rude way. He's been cheated by changing his interest rate, which reduces his credit potential without notice, which is one of the haughty behaviors of banks. The final position of our amendment suggests that the credit intermediary does not have the right to award if the consumer unilaterally terminates the loan contract under the rules laid down in Article 123k of this Act. The refusal of this amendment is one major move by the government, the Ministry of Trade. You're not going to accept at all what's perfectly reasonable, but you're throwing this whole area out, letting banks go wild, that no fixed interest is known, that every month there is a surprise, that the war of credit is being calculated from the Swiss franc to the euro, from the euro to the dollars, might soon be some other currency, and so on into infinity. Now all the things we've been telling you in these few hours, we're getting close to the end of the debate, not to the government's representative, but to be sent to us by the health minister to defend the consumer and trade law. Earlier we had some medicines related to the Ministry of Health, defended by the minister of sports and youth, the minister of human rights, and this is a picture of how the government treats and treats Serbian citizens. It is the socially responsible government, where interest cannot wait, where the hand is dragged into the citizens' pocket, where one law does not apply, where we will soon take loans at the drug dealer's market again, and that is a picture of Serbia before EU entry about 2030 and some year.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44653	The amendment, which added a new title and a new member of 123r, in the same text, was submitted by lawmakers Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44654	I'd like to actually say what this amendment is about. It refers to the addition of the title – Consumer delay and payment stalemate, which adds a new member, which reads: "When the consumer does not fulfil the obligation under the consumer credit agreement in time, the rules on the debt delay prescribed by the law governing bonding relations shall apply, provided that it has been fully and properly informed of the consequences and costs of the delay. If, after the conclusion of the contract, the circumstances that lead consumers to a difficult property, or other important circumstances which are not affected by the contract, the court may, on a reasoned demand from the consumer, order a delay in the payment of the consumer's credit. It can't last longer than six months and it can only be ordered once. During that time, the consumer does not owe interest in case of delay. ''This is again, as counterparts Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Markovic have spoken so far, only an illustration of the well-intentioned nature of our amendments and attempts to actually get into a situation where the consumer protection law would really protect those categories of people who are the most vulnerable. How could it be that this law included what consumer loans needed? It could have been so that for all consumers who can't pay for utility, such as electricity, water, heating, public utility companies would have to examine what their incomes are, and when they find that they are, say, nursing households, unemployed, social cases, persons with special needs, that in such situations they can't rule out electricity, water and heating. Such protection of users of services stems from the EU Directive, which protects the category of economic protection of consumers by introducing social tickets to vulnerable populations, so that all of them would not be able to deny their services until the problem is resolved, until payment is postponed for a period of six months and more.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44655	Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic has a word
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44656	Since this alphabet of ours is nearing its end, I must ask my fellow MPs from all MPs, whether we are opposition or not, to take good account of all that we have said so far, all of us together, both on the one hand and on the other. Let them think whether it is necessary to vote on what the opposition wrote and to vote these amendments, to make it easier for them. That's not what DSS MPs wrote, they were just representatives of the consumer association. We were only the messengers of the Serbian citizens. Don't have any backup to vote for the DSS amendment. You vote for the citizens of Serbia. Every citizen of Serbia is a consumer. I think that every one of us, when he's alone with himself, can really calm souls say -- this consumer protection law must have a part of the regulation that concerns consumers' protection from banks, financial institutions and the part that regulates the issue of consumer loans. I hope each of us has enough conscience and we don't need to warn him.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44657	The amendment, which adds a new title after Article 123r, and a new member of 123s, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123t, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banović, Milica Bojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mr. Pejcic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44658	I will use the time of the parliamentary group, since I am not a bearer of the amendment. In fact, we're only 22 letters away, so what do you think we're doing in Montenegro? There's 23 letters there. We're on the 22nd letter, the letter 't'. (President: You have six and a half minutes left) Since we do not have legal solutions regarding consumer credit and consumer protection, and the NBS has promised to deliver a new law during this year that will regulate this problem, we of the DSS have decided that until this law is passed, we propose a legal solution, a legislative provision, the duties of the NBS and the competent ministry. In that sense, I would like to read this amendment, so that the citizens of Serbia will be familiar with this amendment. ''The National Bank shall lay down regulations detailing the issues entrusted to it by the provisions of this chapter. The National Bank monitors and controls the legality of banks and credit intermediaries. The National Bank shall publish the way in which the annual effective interest rate is calculated. The competent ministry shall monitor the work of lenders and credit intermediaries, except for those transactions supervised by the National Bank. '"You have this legal solution until a new law is passed which, as I said, the NBS promised by the end of the year. What I was finally going to say, Madam Chairman and Mr. Minister, is that everything has an alternative, and Europe has an alternative. For us from the DSS, only Serbia and Serbian citizens have no alternative. This law has an alternative, Mr. Minister. Tell your colleague, Prime Minister, to withdraw this law from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44659	On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 127 of the amendment. Mrs. Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44660	Sisif isn't giving up. In Article 127, after Article 2, we added what 3. reads: Associations and alliances are obliged to act independently from the authorities at all levels, of the interests of third parties, especially producers, traders, political parties and trade unions. The independence of the association and of the alliance shall be prescribed by their statutes. This is very important because we have seen that the bill very clearly and precisely says that associations must have certain professional capacities with professional skills, professional skills. They don't say what they are, what skills they are. Secondly, there is talk of a number of members they must have, and all this is contrary to the Law on Associations of Citizens, which was also submitted by this government. What was put in place as a criterion is one criterion that should eliminate those other organisations that are not at the will of the government. With this amendment, we tried to say that consumer associations must work only in the interests of Serbian citizens, or consumers. In no way should they be the government's child who will receive funds from her budget, be NGOs that are actually the government's outpost.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44661	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44662	Maybe I reacted a little later. The last amendment shows how the government applies to the law. Article 129(2) states – they represent the collective interests of consumers. At point 2) we predicted to add a word – individual. The further text of the article remains the same - representing collective and individual ones. You can see how the Government responded – the amendment is not accepted for reasons contrary to the concept of collective protection of consumer interests. Does that have anything to do with logistics? Have we written in the amendment – representing both individual and collective? What you wrote in your explanation is that it is contrary to the consumer's interest. Has anyone even read these amendments? How can such a thing, such an answer be obtained on the amendment? Can that even be explained, explained to someone? The rule is that you haven't even read the law, you haven't read the amendments. The Minister of Trade then runs off with his head regardless, sends the Minister of Health to listen to this. Mr. Milosavlevich, does this make sense? Is there? How can the amendment say that they represent individual and collective, how can it be contrary to collective consumer protection? That's what it says in the explanation. Congratulations, Mr. Milosavlovich, you've said everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44663	The amendment was submitted to Article 129 by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44664	I'm not a signator of this amendment, but I think I have time for an authorised representative. (President: You have two minutes left as an authorised representative and another four and a half minutes within the group. That's how much time I need. We have submitted an amendment to change point 4). Otherwise, it is listed here that the ministry is keeping records of associations and alliances, some of the conditions under which the ministry will keep records. Point 4 says the ministry will keep records of that association, which, among other things, has adequate personnel capacities with professional knowledge and skills. It's clear what the promoter wanted. Through the amendment we have offered a little better, if nothing else, a better formulation – they will keep records of those associations that gather members who possess the right knowledge and skills. We think that formula is better. This -- the personnel capacity with professional knowledge and skills, I know we use it, but it's just that we have this formulation in the law; I don't see why the bill promoter didn't accept this. Speaking of the consumer association and the consumer union, this bill has caused us to feel unhappiness, and that is what we heard at the meetings of some committees here, where representatives of various consumer organisations and alliances have quite accused the Ministry of Trade and Services of wanting to put under their hat all consumer associations. They're practically accusing you of wanting to state all alliances and seeing that the people of the ministry are familiar with these charges. Based on what I've heard from them and what I've had a chance to read, it seems to me that their accusations have been established. They say that at one point you wanted to establish within the Ministry and the Consumer Protection Agency, so you failed, and then you set up a consumer protection centre, and then you had one contest to award four million dinars, which is not much. They calculated that it was practically half a dinar per consumer's head in Serbia, or all the inhabitants, and that you were practically looking for impossible conditions to get to the local level of these funds, that it was even necessary to collect 24. The competition has been practically announced to report locally to associations to assist that consumer protection centre again, which is again within the Ministry of Trade and Services. So if you look at how you imagine that structure, I don't want to accuse you that you're really going to have something to do with all these associations, but whoever pays you and who decides whether or not you're going to have the means to implement something on a local level, usually he controls you. When it comes to consumer protection, nowhere in the world does the state control associations and consumer alliances. They should practically only protect consumers and that it is their only interest and practical reminder of those in power, today you, tomorrow there will be someone else, to warn, to point to problems and to only protect consumers, and in them the consumer must have full confidence, so that these associations and alliances must be both independent and independent.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44665	Members of the 129th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Vojić Markovic wants a word. No more time, unfortunately. The 129th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment to Chapter XIII was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title above Article 137, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to Article 137 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44666	In Article 137. The bill sets out an absurd sentence which we must correct and in this direction is directed at the amendment. The amendment concerns the judicial determination of unfair business. In fact, as proposed in the bill, we can see that first this formulation is illogical, it is unclear, it is incomplete and as such should not remain in the law. I will read it for the public: Article 137 says this: a consumer whose right or interest is injured can apply for the initiation of a ban on unfair business." First of all, language can't stand like this. What did I propose with the amendment? To include the word "no" instead of "no" in the word "request", a review of unfair business. So, if the consumer initiates proceedings in terms of establishing unfair business, the court will determine what is written here. To determine whether unfair business is prohibited, it is, it is forbidden. He'll turn down the bidder. We have an absurd situation – that you allow unfair business. The court can't determine anything else. And logically, both objectively and linguistically, if we interpret this provision, then we'll see that it's an absurdity. Why didn't you accept this amendment? You stated this in an explanation, so you said this - the amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with the legal standards of the relevant EU directive to be taken over by this provision and the nature of the institute. There are just absurdities, which we directly incorporate and harmonize European legislation with Serbian legislation. We can't do it that way. First, the lawyer must always play a crucial role in deciding the logical and linguistic structure of each sentence. If we translate directly what it says in EU directives, then we have a situation like this. It's absurd and you have to remove it. This is the condition of normal work, normal interpretation and normal normisation in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. If we do as you do, copy, translate, and directly copy into the legal system everything that is written in the EU, then I ask you, what do you need in this 350-employee assembly? At least 60% are lawyers. The lawyers don't need it then. Let us only copy what it says in European directives, European legislation, parallel legislation, we do not need lawyers. The government's lawyers don't need it either, the ministry's lawyers don't need it. Let's split the administration, that's the best way. What do we get in the legal system? Rude laws, unclear laws, incomplete laws, incomplete legal systems. Let us try to consider the word by word, letter by letter, provision by provision, to correct through amendments, to correct everything that is clear, which is visible. But you reject it all. I'll use the time I have as a representative of the parliamentary group. As this law is set out, we will not achieve what is real sense, the real need of Serbian citizens, and that is consumer protection. Why won't we? Because we've thrown out what's most painful right now. The most painful is most Serbian citizens' business in the banking system. Anyone who went into the bank, and you called, you begged, you culled, you lobbyed on behalf of those banks, which a few of the government people brought to this market. You've monopolized the banking system. When the citizen entered the bank, from that moment on, the robbery started, it can't be called otherwise. It's a scam and a robbery. Currently, Serbian citizens are paying the biggest interest in Europe, the biggest margins and the biggest fees. For years, the SRS has been pointing to these social anomalies and problems that Serbian citizens have. Why don't you get rid of it? You can't? It's those lobbying banking circles that set you up. This government was set up by these very banking circles, but not from Serbia, but from the West. You know that very well. Now I'm going to say something here that the Prime Minister of this country said in the world's highest institution, in the UN. There, he said at a meeting -- Banks in Serbia charge six to seven times as much margins as they charge in their home countries. He complained to the world, he shouldn't have said it here, but he said there in twisted form what hurts every citizen. He told the truth. Why does the government, why the ministries, why the National Bank does not make them cut those margins, which he said were six to seven times bigger in Serbia than in the countries of origin where that capital came from. What did the National Bank do, what did the government do? She's a monetary and financial institution of jurisdiction in this area. Nothing. This government can't do anything to the banks. Why? Because there are certain agreements, formal and informal. One of the formals is the one in Vienna. At that moment, and they told you clearly there, if you do anything to correct a more rigid approach to performance and normative, we will withdraw the capital, the one that we have brought into Serbia, we will draw capital, and you have no capital. It's our sad reality. Is that clear to you? Yes, it is. And the people need to know that. You destroyed the Serbian banking system, you dragged the banks out of the West, you made them monopolies here, or they monopolized themselves here, no competition was created here. If I'm right about the fact that the former governor put out when he said that we must be aware that we don't have our own capital, that's one of the governors' sentences two years ago. The nearest ones came to the market. That's not true, the ones you brought, they came. Furthermore, as the governor says, whoever brings the capital determines the conditions under which he will sell his capital. That's a fact. The task of the governor of the National Bank, the government's task as bearer of monetary and financial authorities, is to create conditions for economic, monetary and financial matches, to draw far more capital from more banking systems. Why don't we have a Chinese bank here? Why do we have a Rigid Russian bank dealing with a segment of banking business? Why don't we have other banking and financial markets of the present bank here? That's why the government and the National Bank are responsible. Another segment that needs to be talked about, and it's not in the law, but it's a painful fact that we need to talk about here. It's a black market. We say we will protect the consumer through legal flows, trade, financial, economic, tourism. What about the black market? What do the data on the black market say? The Institute, which did research two and a half years ago, came up with data that 26% of goods and services were on the black market in 2003. Furthermore, in 2008 when they did research, 32.8% of the black market's participation in GDP. So 6.8% increased from 2003 to 2007/2008. A year. How big is it today? Some economic analysts say it is close to 40%. So 30 and a little bit of a billion euros, what this country's GDP is, so let's multiply by four and that's 12 billion euros and that's so much in a black market. What's all this on the black market of goods and services? We have a lot of stuff, we see it in the markets, in the streets, in the squares, next to shops, cafes, restaurants, and that black market is everywhere. You allowed the black market to make up for what they couldn't make up for in their legal jobs because they had no more jobs, they went to the employment bureaus. Their factories are sold and people have to get by, but the problem is that it's a terrible draining of GDP and what we have on the market today is from a needle to a locomotive. And I'm just like all of you, like all of us, the day-to-day buyer of certain goods of that market. The biggest problem is with those goods that come out of the black market, and they have no control, no hygiene, no health care, no sanitary, no anything else, no other products. We poison ourselves, poison generations that come. We know all that, and we don't do anything. Where are the inspections, where is the government responsible to protect citizens, to protect consumers? Every day we have hundreds and thousands of scams just like these street salesmen, people get by. It is the state that must protect consumers. This law and the very title of this law are consumer protection, but consumer protection. Since I'm running out of time and only two more sentences. As long as we have brought this congregation and what is the absurdity of our session, here it has shown us today. The minister who was supposed to be here, because this is one of the most important laws, he had to be present and there's nothing more important than his presence. He avoided coming, there's nothing more important, but he didn't come. We had a health minister here, but the health minister can't lose one minute here. He can't defend this law. His presence is unnecessary. To sit here, to waste time, it's absurd. In addition, here are the permanent representatives of the Ministry, in this case the Ministry of Trade and Services, and they also waste time, they can't get involved in the debate, they sit patiently, and they have hundreds of obligations, they come here, they waste time with us. All that we've been saying and pointing out is just one wind, one fog that's going to fall, and it's going to cut us down, and especially the generations that are coming behind us. President of the Assembly, make an account, see the Rules of Procedure, because this absurdity must be removed. So either the minister or no sitting. I made a joke the other day when we said the agenda was the best kept state secret. It can't be, it has to be known exactly by the end of the year that we're going to discuss, the exact Captain. We can go over two hours, we can go five hours, but you can't know what points of the agenda will be on Tuesday, Wednesday, etc. Ministers, Government, they must have a schedule for our session to adapt to no more responsible work that day than to come here and defend what was proposed. Think about it, change the Rules of Procedure, but for the SRS this is absurd. Change it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44667	The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 143 by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Mr. Minister Dr. Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health and a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44668	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, consumer protection is a multidimensional area and crosses both horizontally and vertically different sectors, and has a dimension of protection on the market, therefore, an economic dimension which is indisputable, but also has a dimension of consumer safety and health, as well as the protection of a sustainable environment. These are all different aspects of consumer protection. It is no accident that in the European Union and the European Commission the health sector and the consumer protection sector is one. The Commissioner in the EU is for health and consumer protection. So if you were to ask the question whether there is a qualified member of parliament of any country on this planet to discuss different laws regardless of profession, of course the answer is yes. The same is true if the question is raised – whether members of a government in a system of parliamentary democracy, which is the least uncontested least imperfect system for one society to be organised, are behind the bill as members of the government, of course the answer is positive. It is not necessary to be an economist or a lawyer, so understand the spirit, the core of the law, its basic message, its purpose and its place in national legislation. So, I've been given the task that the government has given me to be with you when it comes to protecting consumers one of the natural moves that the executive authority in this country has. It seems to me that I have cited enough arguments in the prologue to see consumer protection from all different angles as a very complex area. I wish Serbia had a decades-old tradition of consumer protection as the foundation of the state. We would not have discussed consumer protection in this way at all today. We have all had the opportunity today to learn many lessons from consumer protection, to open different topics and the fact that the discussion of this regulation has been going on in the public of Serbia for more than two and a half years now shows how important it is for us. Each of us is a consumer. Every day in different ways. First of all, I want to thank you that I have not seen this whole day as a waste of time, on the contrary. I have seen as a very good opportunity to hear different angles of consumer protection, even when there were offensive arrows, poisonous ones, which sometimes have to be understood in parliament. It would have been good if the criticism had been constructive and that the opposition had been constructive, and that it understood that at this point the consumer protection law is as proposed for October 2010. My colleague, Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, gave you a very honest, open and precise picture of why the area of consumer loans and areas of protection in the financial and banking sector was not left for not knowing what time, but very precisely addressed, and you have the right to call him and the Government to by the end of this year a regulation that defines our rights, as a consumer in the financial market, be before you. Whether it was necessary to cross the entire alphabet of the amendments, repeating the assessments you will probably repeat again, I hope more constructively than today, in the process of building regulations that will protect us all from the banks. It seems to me that this area that we've forgotten for a while, so we couldn't count on the banks, but it was a time when as consumers you couldn't buy gas from a can on the street, and you had to teach kids five or six years of what chocolate looks like. These times are behind us, and I think it's a good thing that Serbian citizens today have the opportunity to hear about consumer protection in one quality way, from different angles, different views. I would say that we agreed that after this law was passed, consumer protection in Serbia would certainly be better than it was before this law was passed. I would like to give you an example that, under this law, the Serbian government, which will start to apply on 8 January 2011, will establish a national consumer protection council, as a government body that will gather under mandatory different sectors, including the non-governmental sector and associations dealing with consumer protection. I wouldn't bother you with something that isn't directly the subject of this debate, but here again from some MPs it is mentioned something that was concerned with vaccinations and I will repeat what I was saying at the beginning of this debate, but I am obliged to say that when someone in the beginning of the 21st century problems the vaccination as a public-health move that brought salvation from many diseases to mankind and when he doesn't understand why one responsible government is getting vaccines, at this very beginning of the 21st century, it's very easy, it's safe, it's very careful, and then he orders those who, by law, to buy them by the procedure provided by the regulations, the Republic Health Insurance Institute, to be against it in such a way of criticism and to say, what will be left behind, that question that you would be asked – why are expensive fire vehicles being bought at airports to stand on the runways and never to be used almost used or used? Why, it costs hundreds of thousands of euros, they stand on the runway, never use, fail and eventually buy a new one? Because it's a responsible move of protection and prevention, because you buy them because you decided in advance that this airport will be protected and if something, God forbid, works, you'll have the most modern vehicle that's tested to be able to react at any time or, simply, Serbianly speaking, for God's sake. Kone understands the essence of the importance of vaccinations, who's having problems despite all the arguments, then I'm really sorry that he owns a degree in medical profession school. So much for that. The people will understand it much better than I can explain. So, on a simple question – whether all MPs in this honorable building, when they adopt a consumer protection law, will be able to claim – after this law, we have taken another step forward in protecting consumers, on a path that is not easy, and it is not quick and easy to cross it, on that path we need a proposal by the new year that the NBS, together with the Ministry of Trade and Services, will propose to the Government and the Government to adopt it and send it to you, which will protect us on the financial market, and then fight for these solutions to be better and better. Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, I repeat, explained at the beginning the reasons why such a law lies before you. I thank you for showing all of us together Serbian citizens that consumer protection is very high and that there is neither craft nor school in which it is taught. No, that includes economists, lawyers, doctors, teachers, teachers, workers, and miners of those who have no job and who is not employed, and those who teach it, and those who are young and who are old. Consumer protection is a civilization stairway. Thank you for crossing that step with a clear majority of votes. Sorry about the length.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-07-0.u44669	Mr. Minister, thank you. We haven't doubted our competence for a moment, and thank you for working with us today, and have been actively following our work all along. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Gentlemen, I thank you, too. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00. I also thank our ministers' associates.
