ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40325	Just in accordance with that Rule of Procedure, on behalf of the SRS, I will ask a question, and I will ask for an explanation and a notice, but you can also consider this as an invitation. Of course, I'm giving it to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Is the government considering and is it necessary, for example, to start in two regulations to make appropriate changes in order for the competent state authorities to be more effective? Here are the rules, so there's no confusion. So, does the government intend to make appropriate changes to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, and is there any plan to amend the Anti-Corruption Agency Act? Why am I looking for an explanation, why am I asking a question, and why am I even opening this topic at the level of principle, or principle? Because it would not happen in a few months if one of the competent officials, civil servants, officials, media or here at the National Assembly told the public that the government is applying its strategies to fight organised crime and terrorism, applying its anti-corruption strategies, and that is still booming in our country. Or so we wouldn't be surprised by some state official who announced the data, say, that a five- or six-year criminal group allegedly put in illegal money, drug trafficking money, worth a billion and 300 million euros and some million euros. It really raises the question of how it's possible to happen in one country when there's, say, these two laws, when these regulations are exactly who needs to do what, what deadlines, how they're being checked... You remember, a few years or a year and a half ago, this law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing went so far, it went so wide that the legal category became a lawyer, because someone concluded that they were also laundering that mob money through lawyers. So, are you planning to change these regulations? If you plan to do so, will you do so as soon as possible, to remove any disturbances to the handling of the competent state authorities? I am taking this opportunity to remind the government, and I have no doubt Mr Ljajic will pass this on to Mirko Cvetkovic. It's just amazing. The NBS controls all banks and all financial organisations, controls all insurance companies, controls the stock market, controls investment funds, the entire financial sector is under the control of the NBS. One part is controlled by the Ministry of Finance, the tax authorities, and there are customs authorities. There's a special service dealing with the prevention of money laundering. Under the Secret Service, there are departments dealing with this kind of crime-fighting. It's all there and the state says - a billion and 350 million is laundered. You know, those two things don't go with each other. They're absolutely not going with each other. Someone must be responsible. Of course, it's not the coffee chefs and the drivers. (President: Time. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40326	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP, Mrs Zlata Djeric, as the authorised representative of his parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is primarily addressed to RTS as a public service, in that good old manner that RTS promoted, which is – it is our right to know everything. In line with that, I'm asking a question. The second part of the issue concerns certainly the Ministry of Justice and JP EPS, which can also be included in answering the questions I will ask. So, citizens of Serbia, as we would say, ask, because in a good part they finance a public service subscription, and they have the right to know everything, why they have to know exactly when in Belgrade any sewerage pipe is replaced, and from their municipalities they get some information or a place in some prime time when they actually have some cataclysmic flood-type tragedy. That's part of the question. Part two of the question. These same citizens who finance RTS with their subscriptions, of course including some of their knowledge of laws that are current, say – according to the Broadcasting Law, the person who reported the receiver, regardless of whether he is watching RTS or any other channel. Under the same Law on Broadcasting, RTS explicitly has no constitutional rights and the Law on Broadcasting does not have the legal right to enter apartments and to check whether anyone has a receiver or not. According to the Information Act, the Public Service is required to present accurate and true information. RTS didn't tell the truth. He said everyone had to pay a subscription, so he committed a felony against this law, and according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the RTS employees committed a fraud. The subscription must only be paid by the person who reported the receiver. Under the Bond Relations Act, any payment cannot be requested unless both parties agree. So you can't ask for payment from someone who didn't agree to the contract. It is a crime to ask for money from one who has not agreed to a contract or one who has not reported a receiver. According to the Personal Data Protection Act, no one has the right to share your personal data with others except in the case of your personal consent. The EPS and RTS payers have violated this law, and EPS workers have committed a criminal offence by displaying your personal data to RTS, such as your home address where you are being referred an account. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, one who consents to a crime is considered an accomplice in a crime scene. By paying the bill for electricity and subscription, you're funding someone who's committing a crime against third parties. So, since the EPS employees have committed a criminal act of personal data transmission and RTS employees have committed a crime of forced collection, intimidation and lying against third parties, we believe that Serbia's citizens, again, in that good manner of having the right to know everything, have the right to know how legitimate the payment of RTS is through electricity bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40328	Mr. Jovan Damjanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we know that there has been a re-destruction this week in the unsanitary Bellville settlement on the Chukaric slope. We have no objection to the development of the city, Belgrade is a capital and a European metropolis, and we are in favour, but we are not in this way to tear down Roma houses, i.e. managers, because they are internally displaced persons from Kosovo, because they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When the military-technical Kumanovo agreement was signed, when the Serbian people, police and military retreated, Roma also withdrew. The Roma did not Albanians, because they belong to this Serbia, respect the Constitution and love this country. Please, if these barracks are to be destroyed, there must be a dislocation planned if the persons are internally displaced, and if they are residents of other cities, they must be prepared to return, certain funds must be provided to help, etc. It cannot be destroyed in this way and I ask all the institutions in the state, because I don't think this is a democratisation exercise. We have the International Decade of Roma. She has many moments that do not point to the behavior of certain organs. We have a strategy that was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the adoption of the Strategy for Roma Promotion, action plans for its application have been adopted, legal acts containing inclusive and anti-discrimination solutions have also been adopted. So our country has come up with action plans, has passed anti-discrimination laws that shouldn't be implemented like this. I don't mind developing a city, infrastructure, doing everything in the interest of this city, but not in this way. I'd like to ask you to find a solution. Here, there is a minister we greatly respect and respect. I also ask Mr. Minister not to do this, but to find a solution, plan to do so, so that such phenomena and excesses do not occur. You believe me, I've been called by some European agencies, but I haven't made a statement. That, they say, immediately goes to the air all over the world, and we know that our country needs to be democratisationd and civil and human rights respected. I believe my exposure will be understood in our state and state institutions that this is not how it happens with the Roma community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40330	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Tomic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40331	Dear Presidents, the respected presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the public of Serbia and MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must know, and they do not know, what is happening specifically on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with other countries in the region, and we have to remind ourselves, we also did not know what was going on before the unsustained summit on Kranj Hill and on the approximation of the Sarajevo summit on 2 June, where the countries' co-operation in the region will be discussed. What we learned yesterday from the head of Italian diplomacy, Frank Frattini, is that all participants at the Sarajevo summit on June 2nd will be presented by so-called. "gimnik's formulas, first name and last name, not the name of his own state, which represents a small precedent. I must remind you that Serbia refused this solution when a recent gathering at Kranj Hill was organised. We need to know what happened in the meantime that Serbia is changing its position, that President Tadic did not go to Brdo for this reason, and now this reason does not matter for the June 2nd summit in Sarajevo. I remind you that Tadic did not go to Brdo near Kranj because the organisers did not go after the hand that this summit was organised in accordance with the principle that the Kosovo delegation could participate in regional meetings only in accordance with UN documents, primarily on the basis of Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, which was not provided on Kranj Hill, but it was not provided for June 2nd in Sarajevo. Kosovo will be presented exactly the same as other participants in Sarajevo. Serbia's assembly is not discussing this either. No MP knows anything about it, except as much as he reads in the daily press or how much information is being made on information shows. We don't know anything about that. The last time the head of Serbian diplomacy was here, to explain to us what he was doing in Turkey for two months in 11 meetings with Ahmet Davutoglu, his Turkish counterpart, except for writing and harmonising the text of the Srebrenica declaration. We have no answers to these questions and continue to ask them, the DSS Parliament Club. We need to hear the answer, because that is what the public of the Republic of Serbia is interested in. How much Turkey has had an impact on Pristina to sit down with Serbia for the same table, even if it was in Sarajevo on June 2nd, the fact is that only the day before the meeting in Turkey in Kosovo has destroyed mobile and fixed telephony receivers in Serb areas. Is that a constructive approach? Are those good neighbourly relationships? No, I don't. The policy of this government, 'Europe has no alternative', has failed because concessions are said to be not big concessions, but politics is changing. In Kranj, we can do one thing, and the same thing now we're going to give in to Sarajevo, and so the state of Serbia has shown in fact that it doesn't even have a spine, has no pride and Serbian diplomacy has fallen on one major exam. We expect the head of Serbian diplomacy, the foreign minister, to appear here and finally answer all these questions to the MPs and the Serbian public. He owes so much. The majority of presses cannot calculate with certain statements, moves by various European officials, and tomorrow, on June 2nd, Kosovo and Serbia will sit at the same table, but only with their names and last names. Is that a consistent policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Absolutely not. You cannot tell anyone now that you are consistent in choosing Kosovo between Europe and Kosovo. No, I don't. You've been taking it one step at a time since you brought Eulex, from signing the SAA, who knows if it's going to be ratified, it's only in the announcement, to this day. We're expecting answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40332	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Elvira Kovac, Milos Aligrudić, Arsen Djuric, Milan Lapčević and Milos Radulovic. I would also like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure called for the meetings, apart from the representatives of the proposings Mr. Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Dr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, to be attended by Snezana Lakicevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Milica Danilovic, Director of the Central Register. We move to the 21st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Central Registrar of the Mandatory Social OSIGURANJ (individuality) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Peljević, Milet Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čolić, Milica Vojić Marković, Nikola Lazić, Aleksandar Pejić, Nikajandar Pejčić, Donko Banović and Jovan Pović, Milić Pović, Milić, Mućić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić. You have received the report of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, according to Article 142 paragraph 3 of the National Assembly’s Rules of Procedure, I am opening a review of the Bill’s proposal in particular. The People's MP Dusanka Plecevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Article 2 interprets the concept of a unique number and you have defined it as 'a random number assigned by the Central Register of Obligation Social Security for the purposes of compulsory social security to contributions and insured persons'. I suggest by amendment that we delete the words "single, randomly chosen". Of course, in the Central Register, every obligor must have a unique number, because it's his identification in the Central Register, but in no case can it be a chosen number. Since that number is to establish a link between the tax identification number and the parent number, it cannot be chosen by accident. The government's explanation of why this amendment is not accepted is, at the very least, contradictory. First of all, you say that this unique number of "depends on all contributors and insured persons without being predetermined". If it were like this in the bill, if the unique number was the one that wasn't predetermined, it might be okay, but you still say, "because, according to the provisions of Article 17(3), The bill, content, way of determining and assigning a single number, is prescribed by the minister responsible for social policy affairs." Of course nothing is predetermined until it's determined in one way or another, so you've come into your own logical trap. After all, if the minister is going to prescribe how to assign a single number, then a random number can only be the one that gets out of the drum, like Loto. That's why I suggested erasing the word "randomly chosen" because it's in collapsing with Article 17(3) where you prescribed how to determine a unique number.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40334	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40335	I'll use the time it's intended for the party. I'm talking about this for the public, so the public can hear what it's all about. Mr. Ljajic is clear, it is not difficult to follow these regulations, but here's the thing. It has to do with the amendment, to be clear, not to worry. As part of the PARIP project, "Consolidation of Payments and Reform of Pension Administration in Serbia", the government of the Republic of Serbia took a loan from the World Bank under the IDA conditions, that is, the minority for free, and that created an idea project of the Central Register. So, a material assumption and a prerequisite for what we're doing today is a loan, you take the money. The World Bank must not be fooled - Serbia has taken the money, so now it has not done what it has promised. He's got to do it. The market economy in its centre has the principle of contract. The contract is the law. So this is a contractual obligation. Is that our desperate need? It's not? We don't have a problem with a big computer, as someone thinks - to sort out all these records, we need a big computer, McIntosh, to match the data, so when we make that computer, the data match, then all the problems will be solved. Oh, that's not true. This isn't a computer law and a computer program. This is the law that makes something that's already been made. Why? Here, in the very proposal for a law, in Article 33(4), it is said – when this law is passed, the regulation ceases to apply. What regulation? Well, it's already been formed by the Central Register of Regulations. Now we're coming to that field so something can be made by a regulation, something can be done by law. How is that possible? In a legally regulated state, what is reserved to be regulated by law only is governed by law. Certain details can be arranged by a government regulation and some other sublaws. However, a government regulation in 2008 established the Central Register of Obligors for Social Insurance Contributions. Then the question is, is there a constitutional basis for this matter? Furthermore, in the reasons why this law is passed and why it went into what is called PARIP (so the short name is), here is the sentence: "It should be stressed that the application of the proposed law creates assumptions for a significantly more effective payment of contributions to compulsory social security, resulting in increased budget revenues". Who could have written this, Mr. Ljajic? This is a sentence in which everything that's written is not true, except for the assumption. The only right word is conjecture. Since when are contributions to compulsory insurance budget revenue? Never. All our funds are para-state funds. Contributions are in the public revenue system, but they are not budgetary. They are not shown in the budget, but in the financial plans of compulsory insurance -- pension, disability, health, unemployment insurance. But here someone thought no one reads the explanation, no one reads the reasons, no one will pay attention to what's written here. Let me go back to this particular amendment now. Our citizens need to know, we also have the Labour Records Act, we have regulations on pension and disability insurance, on health insurance, the Employment and Employment Insurance Act, the law governing and the issue of compulsory insurance contributions. All these regulations are regulated and keeping records. The most complete and correct record is run by the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. There's no such thing as more accurate. And so far there have been applications for insurance, checkouts and insurance changes. It all existed. Now it's being pulled out and a new organization is being created, which needs to solve the issue of recording. What system? The data collected are provided by the Tax Administration and the Obligation Insurance Organisation, and there is now some records to help the state. What's going to help the state? What can the state, Mr. Ljajic, help with the new law, say, a group of employees of the Montaža Belgrade Action Society, Kosovo 39? He's right across the street, right behind the Assembly. The man says -- he bought this company in the privatisation process, the former director, boasts that his friends gave him money, and, here -- petitions, signatures, 180 and some workers, the company wasn't shut down, for two years they didn't get paid. Not to talk about those out there, whatever inhabited place with more than 2,000 inhabitants to stab in Serbia, you have that problem. Formal-legal relationships, they have workbooks, they are not out of insurance, and contributions are not paid for years. The Republic didn't, public enterprises didn't make any contributions. That's our main problem. Is there any way to make them pay their contributions? There is. You remember that a few months ago an action was conducted, i.e. an attempt at action, an action in an attempt may be more correct, that the business banks through which payment is made are obliged to pay and contribute when paying the employees. What did the banks tell you? That payment transactions have nothing to do with meeting legal obligations. Turns out they're right. While he was SDK, no one could pay the salary without separating the contributions. And we have this virtual problem. Officially-legal, a large number of employees, if viewed by payment of contributions, are incomparably smaller and then there are health deficits, in pension-involved insurance, and then the state, as a universal guarantee, must be opened through the budget to intervene. Formal-legal it all goes normally, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The state has to guarantee it, there's no one else. Who else will guarantee it? The state has prescribed a commitment, the state has also assumed responsibility if the obligations are not met and does not allow people to exercise their rights. So we can solve this with the Central Register? Come on, please. With a computer to solve that problem? Come on, please. How can a computer that keeps records solve the problem of production? You don't make goods in this country, you don't do favors. Tikuni, the import lobby finished the job, at dumping prices imports here and bofl and all, payment traffic in foreign hands. That computer can't solve, absolutely can't solve. To give this more protection to the citizens? No way. That the citizen would have more protection than better records? Well, it's not a record problem, we all know that. We have another mental problem, Mr. Ljajic. The government says this year, it doesn't matter which ministry, now all the Santa Clauses, in all the ministries, are planning on not knowing how many billion to bring back the economy. How? He'll give credit to a liquidity bank or make something happen. Come on, people, let's ask a question now - where in the budget of that money? Tax, customs, excise, etc. Who will the government or the ministries give it to? Chosen, selective. If you've already planned so many billions to bring back the economy, why don't you free the economy from taxes in some part of it? So to reduce from 12% to 10% or 8%, and then to reduce the VAT from 18% to 16%, and then you line up the entire economy. You've reduced their original obligations. On that basis, more remains for battery and production. But the government won't do it, because then there's no control over all the economic flows. It's kind of weird that in computer law, we're opening these big topics. But these big topics have to be opened, because practically these laws cover up the existence of these big problems, which is -- it's a little bit of work, a little bit of production, a lot of import, payment traffic in foreign hands, organized crime, distributed capillaryly in all possible places, it's always two steps ahead of the state, and it creates everything in the state. Thank God, my party is not controlled by them or the tycoons or these foreign intelligence officers, so we probably don't answer a lot of people because of that, but we have an obligation to tell what's true and what's really a problem. It's not a computer problem with the records. There have been these records for so many years. You know exactly the split job, you know who controls, whether the payment is made, whether the calculation is correct, etc. It is known that the final record was in pension and disability insurance because, in the end, everyone had to report after retirement, so the M-4 pattern was a god and a beating for everyone. That's how it was, that's how it is now, that's how it's supposed to be and it shouldn't change. But someone here has opened a valve, the IDA terms of the bank, to take credit, to transform the state, to structural change in state authorities, to organise the state... That sounds so scary, and then when it comes down to the level of concrete, we have a computer problem. This is computer law. A computer to connect three organisations dealing with compulsory insurance, payment obligations, legal and natural persons, to enable the insurance company to carry out an insight and to inform the tax administration back what is charged (which is voluntary, which is forced). So, one computer center, emergency center, that's it. And what do these Montagues do? He doesn't pay them back, he opens up companies, buys around Belgrade, the company works fantasticly, and they don't get paid or work books for two years. They don't get anything. I'll tell you later - both Cvijic and companies in Montenegro, etc. Now you're fighting the mob. There are probably elements and to see how it works. And now you're asking us to give consent to the computer law. The unique number, it says – accidentally selected number. What is that, a random passerby? Come on, let's play games, but why should we participate in that kind of game? Now you're making us talk about the computer program. Well, our computer program isn't interested. We're interested in what's fundamental. And fundamentally, I hope in these few minutes, I've managed to draw the public's attention that everything that flies isn't for food.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40336	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3 of this bill. Article 3 refers to the principles to which the Central Register is managed in the performance of registration and conduct of the Single Base. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I will read points 2 and 3 of this Article 3 because I believe this is one of the crucial members of this bill. ''In the conduct of registration and management operations of the Single Base, the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance shall be governed by the following principles:... 2) efficiency, according to which all reported data are transferred without delay to the Single Base; 3) economics, according to which the process of registration and data transfer is carried out to compulsory social security organisations without delay and at as little cost as possible’. The amendment submitted by the SRS reads: "In Article 3 paragraph 1 of point 2) the words 'without delay' shall be replaced by the words 'in three days'. In point 3, the words 'without delay' are replaced by the words 'in three days'. ''The SRS considers the proposed solution to Article 3 undefined and subject to different interpretations, which is why we have submitted the amendment. We think our amendment is clearer because the terms "no delay" and "no delay" are subjective evaluations of objective circumstances. What does that mean? We don't know how long the Central Register will work in the daytime, but it certainly won't work for 24 hours. If these logs arrive in the Central Register on Friday at 15.00 hours, how will they be transferred to the Unique Database without delay? Or, for example, Friday, and then three days later, it's a holiday? Therefore, we believe that they are not in line with the principles of efficiency and economics. It's not clear from the government's explanation why you refused the amendment. Probably because it belongs to the SRS parliamentary group. You have not tried to explain the disputed terms, nor to define them in time, but only once again convinced this Article 3. That's why, since Mr. Minister is not here, and I'd like to ask him another question, because he wasn't even at the debate of this law in principle, I don't know who could define and time-limit the terms "no delay" and "no delay". If you cannot and do not wish to do so, this article creates the possibility of abuse of inaccurate and unclear legal proposals. I would now be using the time of an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The central register of social security contributions, employers and insurance undertakings should contribute to overcoming the shortfall in the existing accounting and payment system for compulsory social security contributions, which are primarily inefficient and insufficient to pay for the contribution of compulsory social insurance, then the Republic Institute for PIO, the Republic Health Insurance Office, the National Employment and Tax Administration shall manage the private databases for the same groups of users without any coordination and coordination, and there shall be no systematic link between the Tax Administration and the Obligation Social Insurance Organisation in the field of reporting and payment control of contributions. The SRS is committed to introducing order and regulation in the field of social protection, which is effective and enforceable and which will enable these problems to be solved. We believe that the proposed law is more technical and more about computers, and that norms are written vaguely, inaccurately, with vaguely defined standards when it comes to terms and terms used. Because of the inaccurate and undefined terms, there is a question of possible application of this law, i.e. possible different interpretations and possible abuses. (President: Excuse me, please. I thought you were done. Would you like to reapply? ) After the adoption of this law, Serbia will have another service whose work will be financed from the Republic budget, which is referred to by Article 5 of this bill. The 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia provides for funding of 21,740,000 dinars for the work of the Central Register of Obligors for social security contributions, employers and insurance companies. The SRS does not see the justification for the establishment of another social service that will be an independent legal person, who will have a board of directors, directors and employees with existing employees in all three institutions that I have mentioned and with the existing other services that keep certain records and certain data in this area. In the explanation of the draft law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, it states: "In the framework of the Parip project "Consolidation of Payments and Reforms of Pension Administration in Serbia" for which the Government took credit from the World Bank under the IDA conditions in 2005, a component dealing with the realisation of consolidated collection and reporting in the area of social security and for this purpose is envisaged to establish a Central Register of Contributors for Social Insurance – Employers and Insurance." The law could have been proposed in either 2007 or 2008 or 2009. Why is the deadline of application of this law delayed and prolonged? You have international security, you have personnel who know this area, but you don't seem to have a good will to go seriously into this reform. The real application of this law will be only since 1 January 2013. The tax administration also now has records of all debtors based on the payment of the contribution, yet it fails to perform its function and collect the debt, although it has all the instruments at its disposal. The lack of a Central Register has no role to play here. The World Bank's loan, as we have already said, was approved in 2005, and is now in 2010. However, funds from the World Bank's account have not been withdrawn, which is why $150,000 fines have been paid. You get a loan without interest, and instead of using it properly, you act irresponsiblely and pay for the penalty. The deadline for the World Bank's loan to be used is 30 September 2010. Now I would ask the minister, but unfortunately, he hasn't come yet – what are the reasons why the law is only being passed now? Mr. Secretary might say, "Better now than never," but he's wrong. At its meeting on 24 April 2008, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a Regulation on the Central Register of Obligors for Social Insurance Contributions. It was only 27 August 2009 that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a conclusion with information on the need to pass laws governing the Central Register of Obligors of Social Insurance Contributions and the establishment and establishment of a Unique database on insurance and social security contributions bonds. Accordingly, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development have been given the responsibility to prepare a draft law on the Central Register, to prepare, define and establish data from existing records necessary for the establishment of a Single Database and draft a single form of application, change and log-out for the needs of users of the single Central Register database. Article 16 The draft law lays down the obligation of the Tax Administration to provide the Central Registry with processed data and aggregated tax returns on invoiced and charged contributions to compulsory social security after deduction by the employer at the monthly level, by the end of the current month for the previous month for which payment was made. The second and third positions of this member shall be disputed for several reasons. Serbian Parliament members are asked to adopt the law as an emergency procedure for the Central Registry to be implemented by 30 September 2010. In the Transitional and Final Provision section, Article 37: "Articles 16(2) and 20(2) of this Act shall apply from 1 January 2013, until the Minister in charge of Finance adopts the act referred to in Article 16(3) of this Act". Why is it necessary to wait another three years for the law to be fully implanted? The law suggests that the Tax Administration, starting on 1 January 2013, submits an amended summary tax application to the Central Register. And how will the Central Register function until then, sir or Madam Secretary of State? The law does not provide the proposed solutions with a reliable basis for the definition of effective mechanisms for the collection and collection of contributions for compulsory social security by deduction containing individual data for each insurance undertaking individually. The central registry will record the data relating to the basis of the contribution, the amount of the contribution paid and the periods to which these payments are summed up for each insurance company on an annual basis, but only from 1 January 2013. PKB union representatives have asked the country, which is the majority owner of the company, to pay health insurance workers as soon as possible and enable them to sign up for free action and to connect their employment in February this year. On 3 February 2010, Tanjug delivered a statement from employees who have not been paid for health insurance since January of this year, and their internship has not been linked since 2005, so 430 workers cannot retire. Workers work at temperatures below 10 degrees, and they can't be treated because they don't have paid contributions to health insurance. Perhaps the World Bank is wrong when it argues that Serbia is relatively small in terms of social assistance, only it doesn't call it that, because social aid or buying social peace and calming strikers, however they call it, goes away and most of what the state officially calls subsidies and what it never admits, such as forgiving debtors. In addition, what is more than social assistance, for example, the Transition Fund, which provides hours for economic support, a time as social assistance, from which, according to one survey, between 2002 and 2007, about 300m euros was spent on paying off stimulative compensation for 150,000 workers? For these purposes, around 90m euros were foreseen in the 2008 budget, with around 4.7 billion dinars directed to the budget this year. There's a so-called. the hidden subsidies in the form of outstanding State debts from the economy. According to the Tax Administration, at the end of last year the total amount of unpaid taxes and contributions for only 987 public enterprises was 13.37 billion dinars. Support for state and social enterprises to be privatised was around 22% of the government's subsidies in 2008. The level of subsidies for enterprises has increased nominally over the past few years. It is devastating that it is not an aid to the economy, nor to help the workers, or to the citizens of Serbia. The state corrects errors in poorly privatised enterprises, where workers end up on the street without internships or contributions, and then the state must separate funds from the budget to mitigate the bad situation. There's no law or act that can't be at least a little better than what's proposed. By failing to adopt any amendments to the SRS parliamentary group on this bill, you have shown that there are reasons for what is good and useful not to be incorporated into this text of the law. The SRS will not vote for the proposed law, not because we are opposed to social protection reform, but because we believe that this law does not have a clear strategy for effective collection of contributions and for overcoming shortcomings in the existing system of records, accounting and collection of contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40338	Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40339	Thank you, Madam President. I'll speak as an authorised representative, so I'm using that time. I will talk about an amendment to Article 3 that defines the principles laid down for this law. The amendment to this article indicates practically the need for this law to have binding norms, because it does not make sense that the law says "no delays" and "no delays". They're not the only members of this law that are pretty vaguely defined. "No delay" for someone can be within a month, and for someone it can be a ten-year spell, and that certainly won't lead to a solution to the problem. What we point to and what we have pointed to in the debate in principle is that it is one of the most important reforms that we need to reform the pension insurance system. What logic requires is to first pass a roof law that will establish all principles and then pass all the necessary laws that will then make this system compatible. It is absolutely indisputable for us that this law must be passed. This law has been made, as explained, and the entire Central Register is established on the basis of one support loan signed since 2005. And it is not disputed that a single record should be made, but the question (said by Mr Krasic about it, I am sorry that it is not there, as there is no Mr. Minister) whether this law will resolve the failure to pay contributions and whether the non-coordination of state bodies and institutions formed by the state should be individually resolved by individual laws. Because whenever there's a non-coordination, one of the key problems is the non-coordination of the state's organs. This country also has tax administrations, has many other institutions and each of them has to do its job. There is no institution whose establishment can replace or cancel that another institution does not do its job. It is disputed for us that the deadlines are not binding, because the establishment and full functioning of the Central Register are delayed until some distant future. We don't see why it wouldn't be sooner. It is also controversial for us to get answers to parliamentary questions through the media. I sent a letter to the President of Parliament because more than a month and a half ago I sent a letter to the finance minister asking for an answer to the question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure – what is the sustainability of external debt by the Ministry of Finance's assessment. Because when we talk about what this capacity is, we get different explanations, and then in an interview with the finance minister and a conversation with the IMF, we get that it's 40%. It seems to me that this is not acceptable, such as it is not allowed to discuss serious reforms in this House, such as reform of the pension system. We do not dispute the need to pass this law, but this law cannot be a substitute for this roof law and cannot solve all the problems that plague all citizens of Serbia, not only those who are retired now, but also those who will be retired and those who stand out now for the funds from which pensions are paid. We're also interested in what kind of mathematics proves that the next years of the year, the participation of public expenditure in the gross social product, and that pensions and salaries will grow? In the way I studied mathematics, it can only happen by paying and pensioning to grow slower than GDP. Different math I don't know. There are some new mathematics, some new geometry. Right, Mr. Shami? There's some new geometry. There are some Russian mathematicians who have come up with some new models, but that doesn't apply in real life. And I can't understand that in this House we don't talk about such important things. And this member and this law are a great example of such a thing. This law will introduce order by transferring data without delay. What does "no delays" mean? Let's just say, if you have some important work to do, then you'll do it without delay as soon as you finish all these important jobs. As long as we do so, as long as there are no strong restrictions, we will not solve problems. As we said the sustainability of external debt is 40%, the external debt of the public sector is already around 35-36 per cent of GDP today. It's obvious that it's all timed for 2011, and after 2012, we'll see what we're going to do. Is that how we solve the problem? I'm sure you don't. And we don't see any reason why this law, all its provisions, doesn't take effect as soon as possible, why not create all the necessary conditions to start applying it. There is absolutely no alternative to how to achieve a more efficient collection of contributions. I'm not sure getting information from the Central Register will solve the problem. That's what I was talking about. It's just information. That's still very far from solving the problem. Is that possible? Of course it's possible. If you have heard Angela Merkel's statement, the Prime Minister of the most powerful, economically strongest countries in the European Parliament, she says -- we will not help Greece. Why? Because we can give them credit, and they'll show up in six months and say, "We can't pay it back, so watch what you do." So we're going to get information that a large company with thousands of employees doesn't pay contributions, thousands of people come and cut Nemina, blocks the government and says we don't have the money to pay. Do you want these people to go down the street or do you want us to solve the problem? So this is not the way to solve this problem. This is a way to gain timely information about someone not paying contributions, but that information is, unfortunately, very far from solving the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40340	On Article 5 of the amendments, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group and MP Sreto Peric submitted to the same text. Mr. Zoran Antic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 5 refers to the means to carry out the activities of the Central Register. Speaking of the Central Register, as the first SNS MP to speak on this subject, I can say that the SNS position is that the Central Register, as it is imagined, and, in general, the Unique Database also has space in some of the institutions that already exist in our country. Unfortunately, we continue with the practice of forming institutions in an unreal way and ignoring a very important thing, which is that, already today in the monthly income fund, the public sector prevails, that it has transferred 50%, and that this economy of ours, as it is, is outcast, with very low opportunities, is unable to maintain and service such a large public sector. Our initial idea, with the amendments that we have submitted, which, unfortunately, due to some other procedures and deadlines are not being discussed today, was that the Central Register or the Unique Database are being formed within the National Employment Service, because we believe it has technical capacity. I see that there is no understanding because political power, in terms of the possibility of hiring party personnel and opening new fictitious jobs at the expense of the economic power of the economy and citizens, still has an advantage in the country of Serbia. We are very dissatisfied with the concept of the Central Register and the fact that nothing has been done in the previous period that the number of those who do not pay contributions is reduced. In the previous year alone, in 2009, we had over 76,000 people who had no salary at all, in 2008, there were about 74,000 of them, tens of thousands who received below 9,000 dinars per month. Whether these people who have not received the salary have been paid a contribution and whether the state has done anything to collect these contributions – it is a central issue for us and that is where we fully agree with colleagues from other parliamentary groups. So this is a much more serious subject, which is not solved by one central register, one single database. This is a matter of state responsibility, the functioning of the state and the rights of citizens to protect them when it comes to irresponsible employers. We have a constant loss of jobs, we have an increase in the number of people who do not pay salaries and contributions, and the state is not responding, nor are laws affecting the area of employment, nor is the area of work being changed, nor is social dialogue established between a large number of citizens who are in fact at the existential minimum and state administration, a large and bulky state apparatus that has no hearing to solve all these accumulated problems. In the course of the previous year, when it came to contributions, the government also adopted a regulation that allowed the mortgage to be pawned and some assets, but on the results of that regulation, unfortunately, we have no information, nor do we have any information in public how many businesses, public and public, have not paid social and pension insurance for years. The inspection services do not respond to these developments in these public enterprises. We have state favorites, who have the right not to pay social and pension insurance, while the most common pressure of inspection services comes down to the private sector, which is what it is, I was already talking about at the beginning. As far as the law itself is concerned, there is much that has been set quite vaguely, without clear deadlines. We intervened with several amendments. We hope that these amendments will be able to at least partially correct this law, and the fact is that the Central Register theme is not the most important, that this is something peripheral, and that, above all, it is the responsibility of the state to collect contributions to social and pension insurance that needs to be insisted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40342	Mr. Mirko Munjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40343	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Member of the 5th proposed Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance regulates the funds for the establishment and operation of the Central Register, and in paragraph 2, which is the subject of our amendment, it is said: 'The funds for the performance of the Central Register can also be provided from gifts, donations, contributions and other sources'. Gentlemen of the Ministry, gifts, donations, contributions, etc. may be a major item in your ministry's work, given the nature of the affairs you do. However, the question is how many of these contributions, gifts and donations can be something that will represent the means to carry out the work of the Central Register, while there are 'fully clean jobs'. Let's start with some intensities that you yourself claim to be basic when it comes to the adoption of this law. One of these intensities is to ensure the control of the collection of social security contributions, the next is to reduce the costs of administration in this area and ensure more efficient functioning of the social security system. So, if we look at what the intensities for the adoption of this law on the central register of compulsory social security are, what does that mean, in Article 5(2), that funds for the performance of the Central Register can be provided from gifts, donations, contributions and other sources? I ask the question – can this, in any form, be associated with more effective collection control and with ensuring a more efficient functioning of the social security system? Can these two be associated with these gifts, with these contributions and other, as you say, sources of resources, and to be in an absolutely positive context? Or maybe the truth is completely different? The adoption of every law, including this, should satisfy the interests of the state on the one hand, and on the other hand the interests of its citizens. Now, when it comes to the state apparatus, the state apparatus sees the satisfaction of its wishes, its interests through, primarily, fiscal policy, which ensures the functioning of the system, and through the normal functioning of that system, with, of course, the necessary attention to respect for the freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution as the highest legal act (so should at least). But what about citizens in the light of this law, even in the light of other laws? Often, the interests of both sides, so the interests of the state, the state apparatus on one hand, and the interests of the big one, I'm not going to say -- the largest number of workers on the other hand, sometimes the diametrically opposite, diametrically different. So the interests of citizens, as the largest group, and the interests of the state apparatus often differ almost entirely. Just like different concepts of freedom when it comes to wolf and sheep. What is for a free wolf, often for a sheep is a tragedy. So here, too, the notion of some of the interests of the state apparatus and the perception of what citizens expect from that state apparatus are diametrically different and it's absolutely opposite. Here's an example. Companies and private entrepreneurs, ministry gentlemen, were obliged to form M-4 on paid contributions to PIO deliveries by April 30th. From April 30th to April 30th, anyone could have entered that record, i.e. to receive a listing and see if his employer was paying him contributions to the PIO. I ask the question, gentlemen of the Ministry, to you – who has and in whose interest extended that deadline in a month? Who extended the deadline until when the obligations of private entrepreneurs and employers would be to deliver the M-4 form to June 1st? In whose interest is it only since June 1st that the alleged control of tax and contribution payments will take place? Furthermore, how long will this tax and contribution control last? You know, that check starts, as we heard the other day, on June 1st and will continue in June, maybe in July, and, well, it's summer and, as they say, pull-up, it'll be a whole year, and people won't know if their employer paid contributions to the PIO for the previous year. In whose interest is all this done? And we all know, you know, gentlemen of the Ministry, I'm sure, perhaps even better than me, how much workers are paid, or don't pay these contributions to the PIO. This has already taken the character of mass phenomena, epidemics, and even in budget firms, even in those companies that would truly be a priority obligation. Therefore, gentlemen of the Ministry will not make donations and contributions more effective in the work of the Central Register. What can be the interests of donors and donors when it comes to these gifts and donations for the establishment and operation of the Central Register? The question is, are they always honorable or are there other things? You know, gentlemen of the Ministry, the wise Chekhov says, "The hungry dog only believes in meat." How can you expect someone who is poor, someone who doesn't have enough for the simplest existence, to think, for example, what is being shown tonight at the Belgrade Drama Theatre? Or can it be expected that someone who has lost a job in one of the mafia privatisations, who has learned that his employer hasn't been paying him contributions for years to PIO, is thinking about where he's going to take a vacation this year? It's really impossible. You, first of all, should prevent, both this and the other system laws you bring, the true robbery and corruption in this country, but also the robbery and corruption that is politically colored, and everything else will be easy. Believe me, it's your priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40344	Mr. Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40345	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, for the first reading of this bill, I was under the impression that it was a technical law that would bring many things into order and regulate and solve some of the problems that we had so far. However, after the second reading, there have already been many problems, which we have raised with our amendments, especially this Article 5, paragraph 2, which provides that funds for the work of the Central Register will be provided from gifts, donations, contributions and other sources. I was afraid, as I read it, that some new credits might not appear, since the loan has been raised for the making of this law, since the loans fill the gaps in the budget, and you are aware of how much the funding from the budget is going to pay off pensions and that the current pension system and model is completely unsustainable and that it is soon turning into social aid. The fact is that any next pension will be less than the previous pension, the fact is that it will never reach, according to this system, 70% of earnings, that now pensions have fallen to below 60%, and it is not the solution to this situation just the new Central Register law. We need a serious reform of the pension system to change some things, but we need economic growth, i.e. people who work are paying their resources into the budget, from which further payments will be made. Economic growth of 4% in Serbia, with the most optimistic forecasts, can only be expected in three or four years. Until then, he should be alive. And the problem is that this government seems to be unaware of the seriousness of the crisis and of the problems we are in. It will not sell everything we have alive and unfeeling borrowing, under any circumstances, in any amount and in any of the world's international financial institutions, help solve this problem. The fact is, too, that unemployment can't be reduced, but the data appears that as soon as the unemployment rate decreases, and I remind you that 200,000 people have lost their jobs, and as soon as a small investment activity appears, then in Serbia flowers, shines the sun, birds sing, and this is a paradise for businessmen, employees and pensioners. That's far from true, and you're all aware of that. You can get people through graphs and statistics to prove that it really is, but the fact is that in Serbia it will be even harder and it will be a long, long time before they pay and pensions return to the previous level. Not to grow, but to return to this level they were at in 2008. I really get chills when I hear from representatives of the ruling coalition and from representatives of the ministry that Serbia is in recession and that's why we have some problems. We are all aware that we are in a serious, terrible economic and social crisis. The other day, I became aware of the fact that we are also in a deep moral crisis, when the President of the Republic, Mr Tadic, said he would use all the energy available to prevent the change of power in Serbia and, unfortunately, he received a round of applause for that sentence. Please, gentlemen of the government, the state is being taken care of every day, not just at the PUPS congress and not just in election campaigns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40346	Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40347	Thank you, Madam President. As Mr. Petkovic spoke, my colleague from the MP club, simply to be a unified address. Mr. Petkovic was talking about loans. Soon in Serbia, when in charge, it was called a "credit", but now a new term has been introduced and it may not be bad for us in the Assembly to adopt this new formulation, as the government of the Republic of Serbia does. Because Mr Djelic called from Washington and said Serbia received "support" from the World Bank. Obviously, credit is no longer a loan, it's a support. So I ask that all of our citizens, when they take a loan from the bank and come home, tell their wives and children that they didn't get a loan, but that they got support from the Commercial Bank at interest who they are. Therefore, it should be entered in a member of the law that the loan is no longer a loan, but is a support and that we are all happy because the banks support us to continue to be inefficient and to work in the way we have done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40348	The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 11 refers to a single application. It seems to me that there is no reason for this unique application, if it has already been submitted to the Central Register or to any institution, given the obligation of the institutions of compulsory social security to cooperate, not automatically forwarded, exchanged between them, and that it is simply the day when it is held as the reception of that unique application. Unfortunately, we are very often, and most citizens, exposed to the incorrect attitude of the state administration, often and needlessly, so that, when it comes to the National Assembly, is happening to us also to the MPs. Here's how far that's gone. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has been delivered my application for authentic interpretation since August, through the Legislative Committee, and here, I have the opportunity to inform all MPs that this institute in the National Assembly simply does not work. It took the government eight months to respond to this request for authentic interpretation. A few days ago, I received, in fact, a request from the secretary of the Legislative Committee that the Legislative Committee will decide whether there are any conditions and the possibility that this request for authentic interpretation should be forwarded to the Government, since the government has clearly refused, or the Ministry, to respond to that request for authentic interpretation. He's referring to pension and disability insurance, and that's why I'm mentioning him on the subject. So, the topic concerns social security organisations, where authentic interpretation is required to determine the coefficients in the calculation of insurance when it comes to rights in the year in which the rights are exercised. It is obvious that the parallel factors in this programme that have been delivered are not adequate, but the worst thing is that the Government does not find it appropriate for the MPs to respond in any way or in any way to this request for authentic interpretation after so long. Here, and through this amendment submitted to this article and through this member of the law, we see that ordinary citizens flock whenever possible, i.e. the state administration simply loses everything, forget their obligations. I hope that through the discussion of this amendment we can come to the conclusion that he is acceptable, and as far as this authentic interpretation is concerned, I hope that through this discussion I will be able to put pressure on the government to get to him and get to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40350	MP Zoran Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40351	Thank you. This is a topic that should be discussed in the most serious way possible and deserves a greater presence of MPs. This is a topic that Serbia's public should pay much more attention to and that, looking at and listening to the debate, it realizes that serious things are also being discussed in this parliament. The citizens are rightly dissatisfied with this parliament when they look at the presence of MPs of the ruling coalition, who are actually not or are here in a very small number, and it is a very important issue and a very important law. Today, the Central Register is on the agenda, as one of the laws that will improve our economic situation, the social map, the pensioners' receipts, but this is actually not going to happen, because this law itself is controversial. Because there are vague formulations – that something will be done without delay and that something will be done when the time comes, which is actually saying that this is just another law that needs to increase the number of laws adopted, and actually cannot be applied because there are no more important laws, roof laws, such as pension insurance law. What does the ruling coalition offer us, and why do you, MPs of the ruling coalition, keep silent about it and participate in it consciously? Empty promises after two years. In Serbia alone, it is possible that the government that has promised 200,000 jobs, which has promised a better standard, which has promised greater pensions, has no consequences after two years of disastrous results and is so bold that it continues to promote false optimism and does not give concrete solutions and concrete laws, concrete bill proposals so that we can possibly solve these problems. It is clear to everyone that there is no mathematics that speaks in favour of making pensioners better. Here's the question, that whoever promises it and says that there's math to bring those facts out, but they keep quiet about it. Some citizens know that important things are kept quiet and that the messages that are sent, above all PUPS, are empty promises and empty stories. There is no mathematics, but Mr. Krkobic gave a very good and precise answer as to how he thinks pensioners' rights will be realised. At one summit, where pensions and pension systems were discussed, he said, "Retired people are not asking for them to be worse or worse than their employees, but to monitor the movements of average earnings. To young people, future pensioners, I would tell them to turn to themselves and start paying money into pension funds and life insurance. If you're asking me how to do it with such small incomes, my answer is to become alchemists, because it's an occupation that clearly works in Serbia." That's what the great pensioner's rights fighter Mr. Krkobibic said. He may not be able to perform any more mathematics, so now some mysterious roads, the path of alchemy, will exercise the right of pensioners. It's a shame and a shame to be told to the citizens. But Mr. Krkobbic at his congress, where he said to the historic "no" to the IMF ( imagine, the IMF said to the historic "no" so he probably feels like the great leader we've had in the past decades), he said, "The coalition's head stands firm as the rock president of Serbia and DS Boris Tadic, who has accepted our social programme. "Congratulations, MPs from the DS, and you became alchemists. "The PUPS programme is the return of dignity for 1.6 million pensioners and the prevention of social genocide that has been consciously and trendily prepared." Look, man's in conspiracy theory, but probably that alchemy evaporation is affecting his political profile. Congratulations to you, colleagues from the DS, and apparently President Boris Tadic was infected at the congress, and the evaporations touched him, and then he fired all his weapons and threatened the opposition for an hour that he would not allow them to come to power. They're too serious for these subjects to be deceived in such an irresponsible way by the people, not to say they're lying. Economic indicators are catastrophic. There's no area where we record growth. It is said here that we are in recession, although we have ministers who believe that we were not even in crisis and that this is a chance that we have greatly taken advantage of. I agree with those who say we're not in recession, but if we're in a deep economic crisis, that's what we are. But apparently, the ruling coalition, which only cares about the government and which has decided to deceive its citizens, does not want to accept it. Only from last year did we have a 2.3 billion debt to pay back. About 3.5 billion this year. Where, when do 1.4 employees fill pension funds? Will that structure be better in the future? He won't. Unfortunately, the estimates are that in 2030, we will be a million less in the state, and we should have so many employees that the funds will function the way they should function. These are difficult problems. We are, and as opposition parties, ready to give our vision and our contribution to get out of these problems, but we cannot do that when we are faced with one naked propaganda, naked lies that come from PUPS, DS and President Boris Tadic. Then we're just not even able to help you. And speaking of alchemy, Paolo Coeljo said in his famous book "Alchemist" – everything that happens once doesn't have to happen twice, but everything that happens twice will happen the third time. I firmly believe that this government, put together like this, with the ends and the ropes, made up of lies only once and never again, and that this wise saying from "Alchemics" will prove true, that for the second time this shame will not happen to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40352	Gentlemen, I have a need to remind you of a member of our Rules of Procedure and our obligation to really take care of what we say most and that this should be in line with the agenda. Mr. Nikola Novakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40353	I'd hate to get out of this place again. This is not about my predecessor's inspired speech, but what I'm about to read is about all that, and that's on the agenda, the amendment to Article 11, which reads, "Article 11, paragraph 5, is deleted." Whoever from my esteemed predecessor's parliamentary group understands that will understand. My sentence was aimed at something that immunity does not include, which is the ignorance of an esteemed colleague of Antiæ from the SNS parliamentary group, so I strongly advise him to take it off the agenda already. Therefore, jurisdiction for authentic interpretation belongs solely to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When someone needs it, have them contact the Assembly, according to the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure, and the Government is about a counter, as well as the one that will open the Central Register, to our great happiness and satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40354	Mr. Momo Colakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40355	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, representatives of the ministry, honourable MPs, I feel the need to respond to Mr Nikolic's presentation, given that it is not very much about the amendment, which Mr Novakovic was now talking about, but there is a need to react because it is often spoken of by incorrect data or unargued facts. First of all, I have to say that it's not nice or cultural or correct to say – naked lies, fraud, etc., because that's not true. All that we and our congregation have recently said and what we have led in these two unfulfilled years is true and all that we have spoken has been accomplished. I don't need to talk about it in particular, and if I have to, we'll do it exactly, with precise data. I'll just give you two examples. First of all, it is not accurate that the average pension has fallen below 60%; it is now 63.6%. Second, it is not true that lies and deception were spoken in the congregation. Congress was dignified, with over 3,500 thousand participants, where data was spoken, facts, where we were assessed, and in this sense positive assessments were made. I don't need to be the lawyer of the President of the Republic, but he spoke to a lot of arguments and facts at our assembly, and he got support for that, and what constitutes a political connotation should be discussed between political parties that think it shouldn't have been said. I can also agree with the predecessors and Mr Nikolic that the topic we are talking about is too serious to discuss in this way, not the way we spoke in our own congregation and how we are doing our program in practice. I can say that it is an obvious example, a unique example, and there are many examples such as Belgrade, where social policy and social protection are achieved, such as Jagodina, Ruma, Vrbas and many other environments, where we allege that both the municipality and the city and the province, I will also mention my Novi Sad, part of the state and achieve this social programme. In that sense, I would ask that we abstain from evaluations and attitudes, especially labels put here for individuals, as well as individual parliamentary groups and parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40356	Thank you. Mr. Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40357	I'm sorry, I wasn't in the O.R. for a moment, but there seems to be some misunderstandings and Mr. Novakovic and I didn't understand each other. The application for authentic interpretation was forwarded to the Legislative Committee on 7 August 2009. Mr. Novakovic, the Legislative Committee has forwarded this request to the Government, I have received such information from the secretary, and has not received any information today regarding my request. I wouldn't answer for a word, however, your formulation was quite demeaning, so I needed to explain it, so that it wouldn't remain on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40358	MP Zoran Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40359	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40360	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40361	I will then use the time of the parliamentary group, although Mr. Colakovic mentioned me at least four times. Therefore, the Central Register Act is an integral part of the legislative initiative that should contribute, among other things, to the positioning of the pension system to make pensioners in this country better. In that context, I spoke. And when I was talking about alchemy, I've been calling on the "Today" list since Monday 19 April, where Mr. Krkobic said he recommended that young people be singled out for life insurance, and how? - I don't know, let them make some kind of alchemy, because it's obviously worth it. I didn't make that up. These really are Mr. Krkobiæ's words.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40362	The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40363	Article 13 of this proposal refers to a certificate issued on the subject of a single application in the registration procedure. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment, which reads: "In Article 13(3), the words 'without delay' are replaced by the words 'on the same day'. The reason is that the provisions of the law must be unambiguous and precise, without the possibility of arbitrary interpretation. However, in the government's explanation of why our amendment was not accepted, it seems to me that you were confused and still did not answer the question of what the words "without delay" meant, so in one place you even identified them with the word "now". You in the government also have linguists, you also have lecturers, so I think it's really time for you to, once in a while and at all clearly limit terms such as "without delay" and that these terms should not be ambiguous, but that they must be precise and that they cannot be interpreted on an arbitrary basis. The SRS doubts that the central social security register law will allow for more effective collection of contributions precisely because members of the laws relating to efficiency and economics are rather inaccurate and unclear and thus will not solve social protection issues. Thousands of companies, which are yet to be privatised, owe more than 800m euros. Unpaid contributions to pension, health and social security have resulted in more than 60% of strikes in the past seven years. The tax administration cannot collect those debts because the 2006 Law on Privatisation allowed these companies to not pay their tax obligations in part or in full. Dispute Article 20. The privatisation law practically allows companies in privatisation not to pay contributions. For companies in restructuring, the situation is even worse. They can't even do a mandatory collection process while restructuring is ongoing, and it can take years. This is a great injustice against employers who regularly settle their obligations. The draft law will, therefore, not contribute to overcoming the deficiencies in the existing system of records, accounts and collection of contributions to compulsory social security, especially when the provisions are ambiguous and cannot be interpreted precisely and clearly. Every minister and government has passed laws and regulations several times, so there are a bunch of regulations in Serbia today. There are now 6,000 regulations, 5,000 interpropis, about 2,000 with effects on the economy, and there are 100 recommendations that are in place at the final stage and are expected to be made another 300 recommendations, and the proposal for a Regulation on the termination of 193 excessive sublaws has not yet been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40364	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40365	I would refer, first of all, to this amendment by Mrs Paunovic and bring him into contact with the amendment to Article 3. I really don't see why the Government has not accepted this amendment and the amendment to Article 3. Unfortunately, today we will remain deprived of that answer. A representative of the government who is authorized to accept the amendment, of course, is not with us. I am not questioning your competence at all, Mrs. Lakicevic, but in the explanation that you rejected the amendment (you either did not read it or you did not write it) you really did not give an answer, which is why what we are proposing is unacceptable. In your explanation, you rewritten, upgraded a member, or attitude from the law, and tried to convince us again of what was written in the law. We've just tried to intervene. We don't see what's at stake here. Here we suggested that the words "no delay" be replaced by the words "on the same day". It's a concrete and exact deadline. This is where we suggested that this "without delay" be replaced by "in three days' time". Both three days and one day and day are the deadlines on which you are bound by other members, both in Articles 15, 2 and 3 and in Article 18. So that's what the law already recognizes as deadlines that can be embraced and defined here. Why can't this be accepted? What's the matter? Dispute the concept of the law? That's not true. Or you didn't care what we suggested, you've gone over all the amendments, even if I said you didn't accept everything, okay, but this is something that's more precise than your solution and we wouldn't like to conclude that whenever we discuss the laws that you defend, there are always attitudes and members who are undefined and swimming both in time and in space. Remember the Law on Gender Equality – it should try, at least this much, at least as much... You had the same attitude towards such attitudes both from the opposition and from the position. It's not bad to accept something that's more concrete. I don't think it's bad. A few days or weeks ago in this congregation there was the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Crossing and Catastrophe. Seven or eight months earlier, we proposed deadlines. The government wouldn't accept them, and then eight months later, they accepted the solutions we proposed eight months ago. We wouldn't want this law to be the same. Serbia has no time for such an adventure. He's looking for laws that are clear and accurate. As technical as this law is, I share the view that the law is essentially a technique, it will make it easier, some administrative procedures will facilitate, shorten, raise administrative capacity, but it's your fault that we're having a political debate here today. Look at the reason for the law. You've technically defended the law with political phrases. That's not what we're relying on. Look at the stenograms from the principle debate, so you'll see how many policies a law of 40 defends. Mr Milosavljevic – this is a law that will speed up the efficiency of tax collection, contributions etc. That's not true. It can be functional, but to a small extent, in a small part. No one's questioning that. Anyone who deals with private affairs or has done business, so he comes into these benches, knows what problems and peripetti are and knows that defining the Central Register does not necessarily mean that something is wrong, certainly that he can give positive things, but that does not constitute the essence of the problem Serbia has to solve, which you, as representatives of the Government, are obliged to solve and offer answers to that. Why is the story of the technique now being moved into politics? Now, look, your holy letter is the National Integration Programme, or alterations and additions, that's what you adopted. In it you place the priority in 2011, when it comes to social policy, the establishment of the Central Register. At the beginning of 2010, we pass a law on the Central Register to be applied in 2013, and you define it as a priority for 2011. And then you're a little embarrassed to listen to us. I agree. I'd like it to be over, too, but some things have to be said, and because of you and for the sake of the public, they've been noticed and they've been established. To make the irony bigger, the law is passed by emergency procedure. And you know how he defends himself? In an explanation of why the emergency procedure states – the non-compliance could result in adverse consequences for the work of those bodies and organisations. That's not true. Organs and organizations, all mentioned here, and so far have functioned and worked so far. If they haven't worked, how have taxes and contributions been charged so far? How did disfellowshipped workers receive judicial proceedings against employers who did not comply with their obligations to them? Just based on the fact that the organs have worked so far. True, administratively burdened and they should be relieved, but the authorities worked. At the end of 2008, the Republic Health Insurance Office amended its rules, and the Institute boasted that the records had become more up-to-date and that all those who do not pay at all or do not pay regular contributions for health insurance. So, the mechanisms were built and there were so far. They had problems. These problems are not only technical problems, but also the fact of the political weaknesses of those who controlled them. I repeat again on behalf of the SRS, there is no question about the need for the existence of the Central Register, but it does not solve the problem. But the problem can't be solved the way the government tried to solve it. The government has offered a solution to economic and social problems along with people who are the creators of problems in this area. You have to agree with me, I don't expect you to confirm, or say anything, Mr. Ljajic, but to you at that economic meeting were those successful businessmen, businessmen, as everyone understands in Serbia -- tycoons, and defined the principles of how to swim from all this where we are. With you sat people who owe 130 million dinars to workers on behalf of taxes and contributions to only one of their privatized companies. How is it possible that the state does not have a mechanism to force such an employer to pay even though there are judicial solutions to all this? And not only does it not make him pay by his mechanisms, but it gives him the privilege to create economic and social policy in the coming period, imagine – behind closed doors. And when they come out behind closed doors, they give press releases, and then in that press release they tell us what the government has committed to, what successful businessmen have committed themselves to, and to what unionists. So when you compare the two lists, the government committed itself twice as much as what they committed themselves to. Not to tell you what they're committed to. They made a commitment, now be careful, to honor collective agreements. Who in this country does the state have to wait to commit to honoring the collective treaty? They commit themselves to refraining from firing whenever the terms of the permit. We may not get along ideologically, but this is a farce. Who's in control here? We are not asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia to abuse the mechanisms it has, but we are asking it to use them. We ask you to use what you have at your disposal. I can't as a private worker who has three workers that if one day a month late with taxes and contributions, by the end of the month I pay the fine of 100,000 dinars or, God forbid, I'm late for a VAT application one day, I pay the fine just as much, and someone gives himself the satisfaction that he doesn't pay it all for years and then sits down with the representatives of the government and settles economic policy. They must be the same arches for everyone. That's the problem, and that's why this can't be discussed without touching politics. And the government obviously has a problem with that. The government brings, I'll repeat, I said it yesterday, a recommendation about so-called. The guillotine regulations, the comprehensive regulation reform, and everyone's ready to do so until they get out of Germany. And when they get back to their feeds, they start to transfer to each other the responsibility that this isn't good, and this is good. One thing they used with only a comprehensive regulation reform – the media capacity of the idea. So they went out to the media and said, "Economics, citizens, don't worry, the guillotine is moving." Well, out of 200 recommendations, only 30, after five months. And now we need to expect something serious, we need to believe that this law really is what it says in the explanation. I'm sorry, but we can't. We do not question the need to change, to raise the administrative capacity of the state. He knows every person's peri-pedi-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-peri-ce-peri-peri-pe-peri-peri-peri-peri-m-m-m-m-m- when at the end It's supposed to be arranged, but we can't talk about it today and we've been waiting three years for it to come to life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40366	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40367	Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed to add a new position 3 in Article 16 after Article 2 of the amendment, which reads as follows: "The Tax Administration is obliged to provide information to the Central Registry on the basis of social security for self-employed persons and on the contributions collected according to the solutions provided to the debtor, on the date of issue of the solution and on the date of collection of the contribution". The government's explanation of why this amendment is not accepted is, at the very least, unusual. You say, "Amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed amendment does not cover all the obligations of the Tax Administration relating to different categories of insurance companies." In Article 16, you obliged the Tax Administration to make part of the aggregate tax returns on the invoiced and charged contributions to compulsory social security on all grounds and to deliver to the Central Registry the same day as the employer, or payer, of the income. Since the entrepreneur, who you left out in this article, is the employer and the payer only for the insurance workers who are with him or hired them by contract, but not for themselves, from whom will the Central Registry receive information on social contributions and payments to the same, if not from the Tax Administration? This data, collected for all necessarily insured persons, including entrepreneurs, the Central Register, as you predicted, may have until the end of February of the current year for the previous year. How will an entrepreneur, as an insurance undertaking, receive confidence from the Unique Database in the course of the year for himself and for members of his family if the Tax Administration is not obliged to deliver them to the Central Register every month? If the trust or confirmation of outstanding liabilities on the basis of contributions will be obtained as of now, from the Tax Administration, then what is the existence of the Central Register? And who guarantees that these data are correct, given that one of the reasons for the establishment of the Central Register is, how did you state in an explanation for the adoption of this law, the inconsistency, or the inaccuracy of the data that existing services lead? By amendment to Article 16 I asked that the obligation to submit data to the Tax Administration at the monthly level be extended to entrepreneurs you left out in this article. I do not understand the government's resistance to the opposition's amendments, especially since this amendment greatly improves this member of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40368	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 16. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word wants a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40369	I would like to say that this amendment is similar to the amendment proposed by Parliamentarian Dušanka Plecevic. It is true, in an even more concrete way, that the IRS data should be provided to the Central Register, which is also listed in Article 10. The draft law, and therefore on behalf of the Proposer, I accept this amendment, which becomes an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40370	We will declare the amendment because there is no report from the Legislative Committee. National MP Milisav Petronijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40371	I apologize to Mr. Minister, but I believe that this amendment should be further explained, precisely for the reasons spoken of by the honourable Member Plecevic. This amendment, adopted by the Committee, covers everything that Plecevic proposed, and has proposed that the Tax Administration undertakes to provide data on the established contribution and the paid contribution for self-employed persons, and, plus, agricultural activity and the specific category of contributors. I think it's important to point out, that the public acquires real information about seriousness, at least when it comes to a committee whose member, who, when considering amendments, is not looking at who they are, but who they are. We felt that there was a basis for such a thing, but that it had to be even more complete, even more complete. I also want to repeat here the position of the SPS-JS parliamentary group given in the principle debate, that we give strong support to this law. We can call it technical, computer, whatever you want, but in our opinion, this is a very important law. If we all agree that the current social security system is not working properly, that the large social security deficit is among other things and because of the unpaid contribution, if each of the social security funds keeps a special record without any harmonisation, if the employer in several places has to submit applications, logouts, changes etc., if, unfortunately, and most importantly, the insurance company, the man only when he comes to the fund PIO finds out that there are no conditions for retirement because he has not been paid a contribution for years, then that is a great reason for us to pass this law. In order not to make a mistake, the Central Register does not charge contributions, the Central Register aims to provide a single base in one place, agreed by all funds, and without real information, without real records of those who have to deal with the collection of contributions, we have a situation I was just talking about. That's why I use the term strong support, because I think this is a very important law. I think it will benefit the state, because at least in part it will contribute to reducing the deficit. Unpaid contributions contribute to higher budget grants and that is what the budget can expect as a benefit. So, they're not going to make money out of the budget, they're not going to pay the budget. The employer doesn't have to chase around various buildings to file a report, but he'll do it in one place. After all, the one who is most important in the whole thing, the insurance guy, the man, is monthly able to find out whether or not he's been paid contributions. Should there be more reason to uphold such a law? We'll all agree that when a man does his job, he's entitled to a well-deserved pension, and it's not a matter of the good faith of the state, but of his right to come out of insurance, but he's faced with the fact that he can't make it because that's when he finds out that no contributions have been paid. We will all agree that every man in Serbia has the right to be health insurance, the right to health care, and this will allow the situation to be avoided so that he knows that he cannot verify the book because social security contributions are not paid. So, given all this, we think this is the right step that the government has taken to solve these problems. I want to, since I will no longer report to the other amendments, yes, just by giving this view of the bill to my government, I ask my government to take the same next step that it takes even more vigorously, which is to implement this into action. I call on my government not to allow such a significant law to be devalued because at the end of the day it had provided for quite a number of stretching deadlines. To be clear, there is one part that says that by 2012, even until then, a single application in non-electronic form can be submitted. It can be tolerated for the simple reason it is necessary in companies that do not have these conditions to create them, and only then teach in electronic form. But, please, no confusion again, the law will not apply until then. A single application within two months must be established, specified and then ceased to apply laws in the area of pension and health insurance and unemployment insurance in the field of applications. So it's applied immediately. Here is a matter of time before the conditions for electronic applications have to be created, which will certainly be. I believe that the Government has once again to seriously consider whether it takes two and a half years for the Tax Administration to create conditions to collect tax returns only from 1 January 2013 to the Central Register, and it is a condition for the Central Register to deliver funds to M-4 forms in one place. I think the government has to take a good look at this one again, make sure it's too long a deadline. All these other deadlines can be tolerated because they create the possibility of applying the law, and leave the deadline until it should be applied in whole, in electronic form, but this article needs to be looked at again. Otherwise, with what I've been looking for, I think the law is pretty clear, good and we should all accept it, because it solves big problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40372	Nine minutes has been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40373	Just a little something to explain, and I think it's a good reason for this amendment, Mrs. Pletevic. The basic problem with this law, no matter how funny it seems to someone that I initially said it was a computer, is that no one knows what regulates this law. Does this law contain anything entrusted with authority? Does the state trust any authority for any business? There's no provision. What is this Central Register? Legal face. What's the character? Public service. Who founded it? It's founded by the government, not by the law, but by the government's act. What are the jobs in charge? It's a record. Big praises about the records. A man will know before he submits a pension claim that he has not been paid a contribution. I don't know what would be epochal, which would have given a man information if he hadn't made a contribution for five years. He'll be happier to know. Besides, is there anything here that requires what procedure they're doing? There's only a procedure to get a number and there's something to use the data. Who's using the data? Statistics, Arrival Management, etc. Excuse me, please, but why are we passing a law that regulates nothing? Tell me where in this law this provision is -- when the insurance company reports, they'll get that information, if it doesn't get the data, what it can do; if it gets the data, so it can't exercise some right, what it can do to exercise that right that it does with someone else. There isn't. Some provisions were drawn on some records from three or four laws, credited to make the Central Register... According to you, the insurance company will be in the same position as the action. What's the difference? You have provisions on the procedure, how it is registered, etc. at the Central Deposit for Action and Securities of Value. You don't even have a rule of procedure here. Here's the security guard below the level of action, below the level of paper value. I didn't write, don't look at me, it says in your law. There is no provision on the rights of citizens, individuals and insurance companies to protect his rights under this law, or even the right to receive information. He called to get the information, they didn't give him any information. What do you do next, what provisions do you apply, by which order does he appeal? You know, under the Constitution, whenever a citizen speaks to a state authority, he must be granted the right to appeal. If you're not entitled to appeal, then he has the right to initiate an administrative dispute. There's no provision. Is this a trusted government job? You don't have any provisions saying it's a confidential job. You're talking about the public service of an institution established by the government. Tell me which other public service in Serbia is established by the government's act without being set up by law. This law is not a founding act for the Central Register, but an individual act to be adopted by the Government. You've messed everything up. I don't know how this could have gone in law. This is about like a copy. Something is prescribed, for example, in Belgian legislation, where these in Belgium were trying to adapt some EU standards. And do you know what it's like in the EU? In Belgium, it is done by recommending the minister, in France by the government regulation, in German law. So the same matter, from state to state, depending on the constitution of the state, is determined in which form something is regulated and who is in charge. It is likely that someone, in conditions where there is a jurisdiction of the National Assembly, has prescribed a document from Belgium, where it is in the power of the minister and some of his recommendations and some of his conclusions. Of course, when you rewrite something from Belgian legislation or regulations, and you say, "If it applies in Belgium, so must it be in Serbia, then you come to a problem." First problem – jurisdiction, second problem – bodies, third problem – procedure. And everything artificially inserted, which doesn't match our legal-political system. And so, you got a little weird at the beginning of what I was talking about, we're talking about a law that needs to replace a computer. We're talking about the computer, but we're not talking about how the computer is going to work, how it's going to work, what the database is going to be, but we're talking about how people are going to feed that computer data. Why? Because a loan was taken to build a computer. There's something going on in the explanation. In the principle debate, I got the impression that after this law, the contributions would be paid two months in advance, so much praise. So the contributions will go as an advance two months before the worker does that month. When this law is dissipated, there is little view of what is written, and nothing is seen. Absolutely nothing. Why should we be complicit in this, why should we encourage false hope, great expectations, that tomorrow someone calls on us - all praise and you join in. Oh, we're not praising anything, we're criticizing. This doesn't solve the problem. The problem isn't with the computer, whether it has electricity, whether it has no electricity, whether the operators are ready and able to work. No, that's not the problem, the problem is much more serious, that's what Gordana Paunovic was talking about. You know for a fact that a third of the reasons why the companies on the list of bankruptcys, that's about 60 grand according to the latest data, are showing indifference and insolvency to claims determined by judgments, based on judicial decisions on enforcement. That never happened with us. The second third is obligations to the state, which are primarily taxes and contributions, and only in third place, those last thirds are liabilities to banks based on credit. When you look at the structure of the liabilities from the cause of the bankruptcy, it's clear. The Central Register cannot solve a third of these problems, and you can see for yourself that there is no provision guaranteeing the protection of the rights of the individual who appears. I'll be very happy to know that I haven't been paid a contribution in six years. Please, do you remember that last and last year we passed some laws that allowed those who didn't pay health insurance contributions to go, if they paid regularly, to have health care, to reprogram debts, 45 billion dinars, remember? It was in that building. And then we said it didn't solve the problem. Here, look, now you're going with this. This doesn't solve the problem either. Our problems are in production. The financial sector cannot solve these problems because money is being laundered in the financial sector. Guys, money's being laundered. It's a heavy heart I say it, but it's true. It hasn't been denied yet. Because, simply, when you draw a line and you see a plus, plus, minus, minus, balance - minus. Every year minus, minus, minus, minus. It's got to be a draw somewhere, to say the least - well, it can't be like this anymore. That's why we're talking. That's why we point to these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40374	Nine minutes and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40375	How much time left for the SRS parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40376	You, as an authorised representative, two more minutes, and the SRS parliamentary group - 20 minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40377	We have submitted an amendment to Article 17(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. For the sake of the public, I would first read Article 17 paragraph 3: "Content, method of determining and assigning a single number, as well as establishing a single number link with a unique home number of citizens and a tax identification number is prescribed by the minister responsible for social policy." The amendment, which we have proposed, reads: "The content of the method of determining and assigning a single number is prescribed by the minister responsible for social policy, and the establishment of a single number with a unique home number of citizens and a tax identification number is unanimously prescribed by the minister of social policy, the interior minister and the finance minister". I am pleased that Mr. Minister Ljajic, who most likely participated in the drafting of this law, will be able to answer some questions as well. What, then, is the government's conclusion of August 27, 2009, when the government decided that, besides the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the Ministry of Health was involved? The SRS believes it is unwarranted that this member's position is authorized by the minister for certain matters for which he is neither competent nor competent. We don't see how he'll be able, without the participation of these ministries we've already talked about, to establish a relationship with the home number, when it's in the MUP, and with the tax identification number, when it's in the finance ministry. We believe that this problem is multidisciplinary and that it should be attended by several ministries, not only by one minister and given all the authority. In this way, not all powers are given to him, he will not be the one to establish a relationship, that is, officials in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will do so. In this way there is the possibility of abuse, that these workers and officials, although they have no evil intentions, but they enter the programme, enter the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. I don't think it's even legal, and I don't think they're competent to do that, and I don't think they're trained to do that. That is why we believe that this amendment should have been accepted, especially since this central registry law was not only part of your ministry, but also certainly this ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40378	One minute and 35 seconds used by an authorised representative. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40379	This remark is fully in place and we accept this amendment. True, there was a dilemma in making the draft laws, and in the original version we had one such solution. I think we can accept this amendment and it will improve the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40380	I find that the motioner has accepted the amendment, and the Assembly will declare itself in the voting day. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40382	Article 21 The draft law refers to the obligation of the Central Register to notify the Tax Administration of the contribution to compulsory social security and observed irregularities on a monthly basis of an analysis of recorded, processed and harmonised data from the Single Base on the payment of contributions to compulsory social security and observed irregularities. In our amendment, we have suggested that the second word "if necessary" be deleted. This has been explained by the fact that we consider the observed discrepancies of recorded and processed data to be notified by the Central Register to other competent authorities, in order to take measures out of its jurisdiction without doing so as to be necessary. What does "if necessary" mean? This could mean that there are double arches, the possibility of abuse and that all citizens of Serbia are not equal. A bill like this isn't allowed. The law's inauguration is problematic, so it's a question of whether at all times you will know how much you pay the contribution, as well as whether anyone is avoiding it. In this way, the Central Register will not allow insurance in Serbia to see whether employers regularly pay social and health contributions. By accepting the amendment, we would have full insight into whether employers had fulfilled their obligation to those employees they had reported, so they would be able to respond to that by the Tax Administration. Article 16(3) provides for the existence of a summary tax application on the invoiced and charged contributions, as well as individual data for each insurance undertaking. Closer content and tax application form for the invoiced and charged contributions for compulsory social security after deduction is prescribed by the finance minister, under Article 37 to 1.1.2013. Does it take two and a half years for the finance minister to bring in the content and form of the tax returns on the accounted and charged contributions to compulsory social security? We think this should be realised at the latest until the term of office of this government. Because if you have already proposed a law, I think that the realisation of this law should be at the time of your term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40383	Time was used by authorised representatives of the parliamentary group and 20 seconds of time by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40384	Article 24 speaks about the assurance of data from the Single Database, issued by the Central Register at the request of the insurance undertaking. I have proposed by the amendment that this assurance, issued by the Central Register, be the only relevant document necessary for the exercise of the rights of the insurance company. If the establishment of the Central Register rests on the principles of independence, especially efficiency and economics, and if the Central Register has all the data of all services, why would such confidence not be most appropriate? I see no reason and logic to refuse this amendment. It is understandable and justified to centralise data on social security bonds which now have major problems in the exercise of rights based on payment of contributions only if data from the Central Register are only relevant in the exercise of those rights. You obviously believe that social security bonds still have to walk from service to service and from counter to counter to obtain the necessary assurance, which can easily be obtained in one place, from the Central Register of the Unique Database. Only then is the establishment of the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance fully justified and the purpose of existence. Only then will insurance and users benefit from its establishment, especially if the implementation of this law is expected for a total of eight years. The reason for this claim is also in your explanation of the bill, where you say: ''The existing tax laws and laws governing certain forms of social security (retirement and disability insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance) differs in order to keep records of the bonds of contributions – employers and insurance companies, which makes it very common in practice that the same records are kept in different ways by several authorities, without any coordination and coordination, and that certain records are not kept with any authorities, so it is necessary for this reason to form the Central Register as a single and harmonised database. The inequality of the databases of compulsory social insurance organisations, as well as the duplication of those social security systems, leads to the inability to monitor effectively and control the collection of contributions'. You wrote that in an explanation for the law. That's exactly what the amendment is all about. Since the pooled data are located in one place, the assurance issued to the social insurance undertaking in that place is the only relevant document needed to exercise those rights. But if you think the insurance company has to keep walking from the counter to the counter in the exercise of its rights, and I haven't been able to convince you to give it up with my amendment, then I have nothing more to add to their defense.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40385	One minute and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have had the opportunity to see in this debate on amendments, the MPs of the SRS have devoted themselves to this law. In addition to this fact, the number of amendments adopted, but what is essential and what you could hear from the presentation of the SRS MPs, is that this law will not bring about anything more important when it comes to social security. There's been control so far, and the question is why it hasn't been implemented properly. All that is planned for these changes will feel the most small and medium-sized enterprises. You had the opportunity to hear from Mr. Stevanovic how much only one tycoon owes on the basis of contributions to social and pension insurance. What's the state doing? Absolutely nothing. Since when do these problems arise? These problems have arisen since 2000 and the mass privatisations, above all. We're all aware of the fact that the companies that go bankrupt have huge problems, but what should certainly be said is that this government has owed over $80 billion since 2000. Without production, we're out of progress. I think we all share that opinion. You're trying to sort of justify it, but it's certainly a fact, especially you, Mr. Ljajic, you know how many strikes we have and what's happening to us in Serbia. We witnessed ourselves here in Pioneer Park, where people strike for six months. The state is trying to help them in some way, for a moment it's clouding their eyes, but there's absolutely no real solution. Use exclusively pre-election campaigns for false promises. That's what we had a chance to see in the last elections in these two municipalities. Our government boasts the opening of folk cuisine, and reality is quite different on the ground. Mr. Minister, I come from the Ojac municipality, where these elections were on January 24th, where the economy was once extremely strong. Today we are in a situation where we have about 7,000 unemployed in the National Employment Service records, that literally no privatisation has been carried out properly. I'm just going to say one example, something that's not appropriate, it's absolutely embarrassing for our country. It was a company called Progress, which was involved in the production of buttons and hangers and which bought a machine for the production of crates in 2002. It was privatised in 2003, when it was purchased by the Belgrade Kulina Plast firm. They bought it because it was cheap and they didn't even know what they were buying. The privatisation was annulled, so he bought it with some consortium of one owner from Serbia and Slovakia. This took a very short time, and then the state, in order to collect the contributions, carried out a commission that assessed all this and, believe it or not, the court sold the facilities to ensure that the state could make contributions to social and pension insurance. But worst of all, these workers have not yet received these funds, or have not been associated with their internship. The estimate was made at 58m dinars, and the court sold for 33m to Nutriko from Vranja, which proudly gave the government a loan from the European Investment Bank of 750m euros. There were 150 people working in that company. A lot of people can't even make pensions today. All these great promises that Nutriko from Vranj will invest 750,000 euros in production, that it will activate it, and it was enough to only activate this machine for the production of crates and to work for our brewery. Believe it would be such an income to the Republic of Serbia's budget, which would certainly have an excuse. He's now building a office there, some business space, a Jacuzzi, but it's certainly the fact that the workers aren't coming back to work. What is the purpose of politics? According to the SRS, it's to be done in the interest of the citizens. It is not the purpose of policy-making simply to make false pre-election promises, as did this government, especially when it comes to opening 200,000 new jobs and free campaigns of 1,000 euros, of which our citizens received 1,700 dinars. And the very fact of how many lines there were at that time in the banks is saying enough about how our people live. What about pensions? It is not essential, my dear gentlemen, that you and the few thousand who are closely tied to this government live in abundance, and all the other citizens of Serbia at the waste and on the edge of existence. Of course, this government is everything, just not a socially responsible government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40387	Six minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40388	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Ljajic has some urgent business to attend to, so he has to leave. I was talking about this law and dangers that vague things can define. This member is very interesting, because he can remind us of something we still need to build, which is an institutional memory and experience that must exist in the work of the state authorities. Col. Momchilov suggested that Article 25 be made, and that Article 25 defines the Single Base established by this law and what happens in the event of an error. Of course it's possible, when you're doing a job, there's a mistake. The third position says: "Every correction of the technical error in the Unique Database is made immediately upon knowledge of this error, without delay, with a record of the time of correction and text before correction." So it's done immediately, without delay. My colleague Momchilov proposes to delete this "without delay", because if something is right now, then I guess it's very clear and very precisely defined. Since we have repeatedly pointed out that this is an important base and that this is an important register, it is very important to point out precisely with this member and this amendment, Mr Novakovic can also help, I think the minister has experience since the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, or the state already has some similar registers. For example, the state has a central record register of values and, when the Central Securities Register was established, there was a provisional record register of values. In Serbia, securities of value can only be traded on the stock market and it is logical that it is much easier to run the Central Securities Register than value, because you have clear data from the stock market. Anything traded on the stock market can be recorded in the Central Register. Since the temporary register has grown into the Central Securities Register, some of the key problems we had in privatisations, in corporate ownership relations, have occurred precisely because numerous problems and numerous errors have occurred in the Central Register. I, Mr. Novakovic, quoted you as someone who has led the Privatisation Committee here for many years and who, like Minister Ljajic, has been familiar with numerous complaints. I'm just talking about that in a register like that, which logic suggests that it's much simpler to keep such a register because all changes happen on the stock market and have to be recorded in a different way, there have been a number of errors. What kind of dangers can occur in a base like this, which is updated once a month, on each payment, or, if contributions are paid more often, more often, and how all such vague definitions in individual members can lead to problems. I'm just saying that Serbia already has experience with such registers and it seems to me that this law and such provisions do not eliminate the danger that we will have many problems in perspective with these members as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40389	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40390	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Madam of the Ministry, Article 26. The proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security regulates issues: first, the responsibilities of the Register for Security, Protection and Security of Privacy; second, regulates measures against unauthorised or accidental access to the Single Database; and third, regulates the system of forming a secondary database and a secondary computer system. This amendment requires that paragraph 1 determines that the Central Register is responsible, except for what is numbered, and for the accuracy of the data entered into it. I ask the question – does it even make sense to protect and provide some incorrect data, which may in some way appear and be entered into the Central Register? Or, to turn the question around -- can any incorrect data ever come into the central register of compulsory social security? Keeping in the database something that will be subsequently determined that these were not accurate data really doesn't make any sense. Therefore, the accuracy of these stored data is raised as a previous question, as one of the most important issues. We ask only by amendment to strengthen the importance of data input into this database. Because, you know, keeping something that's true, which tomorrow, the users of that data can have a lot of trust, only makes sense. Anything else, therefore, if stored in the database that did not satisfy this form, the data that are not correct, is merely a mere satisfaction of the form. There's simply no point, the essence is not respected. So, it's just satisfying the form, that they're in the database. That's why we're asking the database to keep the exact exact data. Gentlemen of the Ministry, will this database, in terms of what I said earlier, so in terms of the accuracy of the data being entered into that database, be able to pre-warn something that is happening now? Here, I'll give you an example. Employers receive information that he is paying their contributions to pension and disability insurance. Of course, workers do not have the opportunity to make an insight into the M-4 form and the only way they can determine whether the employer has paid contributions to their PIO for some previous period is to take a listing at the PIO Fund. I can say, at least how much my knowledge is, that pension and disability insurance funds are very correct in that, and they only give data to the workers based on the ID card, and, here, I continue with this example, the workers on the basis of their ID cards get the listing and in that document are normally the exact data concerning this company, the home number is fine, the name and the name of the workers is fine, and when that data comes up – the payment of contributions for pension and disability insurance, that column goes zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero... All the way to the infinite zero. The workers are addressing the inspection. An inspection in one control (to say routine) determines and says only in one sentence that the employer has reconciled pension and disability insurance obligations for workers. Workers are taking the list again and prove that the employer has not reconciled that data for a certain period. So, where's the accuracy? Will the new Central Register of Mandatory Social Security be able to pre-war and prevent this or not? Or is that where only the workers will be damaged? With regard to the accuracy of the data, I would only refer to your argument that this is the intended responsibility of the applicant for the single application. Therefore, unless the correct information has been entered, the applicant of the single application shall respond. However, just the fact that it often happens that incorrect data is being entered, in fact it speeds up what we're asking for by amendment, that only accurate data must be entered into the Unique database, and that is exactly what we're asking for by our amendment. I don't think this is just a cosmetic, formal change, but in fact, one fundamental change is that only accurate data is being entered into the Unique Database. And the size of a man or, I don't know, the Ministry or any minister, is that if he sees that something that's really good is meaningful, and it comes from another side, he should accept it, no matter what side he comes from. Because, you know, mere satisfaction of form and name doesn't mean anything. As much as the satisfaction of the form, and especially the names, here is to base myself on just a name, doesn't mean anything, I'll tell you, gentlemen of the Ministry, from just one example. What we call a rose would smell nice if it wasn't called a rose, right? This is, therefore, not about the name, but about the satisfaction of the essence, and I believe that this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40391	The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40392	Article 30 of this proposal concerns supervision. I will read it, for the sake of the public: "The supervision of the implementation of this law and the rules adopted for its implementation, as well as the supervision of the work of the Central Registry shall be carried out by the Ministry of Social Policy." Our amendment reads: 'Article 30 after Article 1 adds Article 2 which reads: 'The ministry responsible for social policy is obliged to submit a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the work of the Central Register by the end of February of the current year for the previous year'. The explanation for which we have submitted this amendment stems from Article 15. The Law on the National Assembly, which defines the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, is supervised by the work of the Government, ministers and other bodies in the exercise of its control function. For this reason, we felt that, because of Serbian citizens, the ministry responsible for labour and social policy would be required once a year to report to the National Assembly, to the MPs elected by citizens, so that citizens would have a public report on it and that it could be delivered in one way to all interested citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40393	National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 35th amendment. Mr. Pejcic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40394	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I would also like to welcome the minister, but I don't see him now, the DSS in principle said that and how interested in this law on the register of compulsory social security, for a simple reason – since during the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, $25m was provided under the IDA conditions for the implementation of this project, this realisation did not take place because of twice-off parliamentary elections. But I'm surprised at one other thing -- how this socially responsible government, as it called itself in the campaign, has not passed this law for two years, and the funds have been provided. I'll remind the citizens of Serbia what this so-called heritage is. Socially responsible government, and what it has promised to do with this problem. You promised 200,000 new jobs, and in the last year alone more than 110,000 jobs were lost, in the first quarter of this year 15,860, with growth trend. I say with the trend of growth because 70,000 companies are in a blockade and followed by liquidation, i.e. The exodus of new jobs. You also promised a better standard for Serbian citizens. I remind you that at a time when Vojislav Kostunica left power, the average personal income was 423 euros, and now 329 euros. You also promised to raise your pensions, and in reality, pensions are down 30%. Everything you promised, you didn't keep it. We can only agree on one thing – the basic policy of this government is an apology. I expected Boris Tadic to apologize after winning Partizan to Ivo Josipovic for, behold, the accidental victory of Partizan that took place in Zagreb, and if not, we expect it in some future period. Now a few words about the amendment we submitted. A member of this 35th law is a crown member to us. For what? This is about technical conditions, and it's about the Unique Database. In order for the law to be implemented, we need to specify certain technical things. We had controversy, Mrs. Lakicevic (although you cannot answer us, and there is no minister) about it, and you told us that in the early six months you could have technical conditions... Now it's May, eight months you've had the opportunity to provide these technical conditions, so it's essentially acceptable this amendment we've offered you. We armed that time on 31.12.2010, and you told us that in six months, these technical conditions could be realized. The state of Serbia is losing between 150m and 200m a year because of this database and the unzealous payment of some employers. That's also one of the reasons why you should have accepted this amendment. The amendment's gone too far and meaningful. Here's a chance to think again about this amendment of ours and accept it in a conversation with the minister, because there is a technical possibility that this amendment will be accepted, and technical conditions will be met by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40395	Mr. Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40396	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministry representatives, today we are discussing, we have concluded, a very important law, which, however, will not be fully implemented until pension reform is implemented. The government has pledged to implement the reform in 2009. Mrs. Lakicevic Stojačić, you know well that the work on this law began in 2005. Unfortunately, it is only in 2010 that we adopt it, but I am sure you know that certain provisions of this law come into force only in 2012 or 2013. The DSS parliamentary group is trying to shorten the period, because it is simply a question – why wait two or three years. We think certain things have to be done much faster. In Serbia, the conditions for retirement are 60-year-olds and men to go at 65. This is an exact data, which is likely to change according to European values and the German state, where the border has been shifted to 67 years. The average age in Serbia for women is 75 years, for men 70 years. There are 1,600,000 pensioners living in this country. Out of those 1,600,000 half million, he receives a pension under 13,000 dinars. In this country, 700,000 people live below the poverty line. It's 73,000 unemployed, according to official data, and I'm sure that figure is much higher. According to data, also, 150,000 people in this country are working, but they're not getting paid. There are 300,000 young people unemployed. The average age of the working age population is over 45 years. There are a lot of problems that this government has to solve. I don't know if you've heard the information, my colleague Pejcic is coming from Leskovec, at Nevena the other day they took half, chickens and vouchers instead of pay. Does that remind you of the crazy nineties? There are two solutions to this situation, as Mr. Boris Tadic said he would not allow at any cost any ominous birds to come to power. Are these birds ominous or are these official data about how this government is running politics in this country? There are two solutions. According to one solution, Mr. Slobodan Milosevic brought assistance from the side of Daniel Šifer in time, Mr. Djukanovic brought Shinavatra, and Mr. Nikolic urged me, I think the solution to Serbia - Fulkaneli. He is a brilliant chemist who published a capital work in 1930. It is also the year of Mr. Krkobbić's birth. He can offer him how to reach the value of eternal life, how Mr. Boris Tadic can learn about the wisdom stone, and how to turn the economic part of the government into gold. The second time is to take your mind off things and seriously solve problems, so that we don't get to some new kind of laptop in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40397	Information works, the average age in Serbia is 44 years. Not the active people, but the average age in Serbia. So much for facts. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 36th amendment. Mr. Nikola Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40398	Thank you. At first, of course, the question arises whether this law is necessary. Of course it is. Is it self-sufficient? Of course not. This amendment is being added to the previous one, with regard to technical capacity to monitor the payment of contributions and to detect problems in the area. The DSS Group proposed that the deadline for the technical equipment of legal persons be moved from 2012 to 2011, because we do not consider this to be an excessively large problem and, in fact, only one computer is needed for each legal person. This really does not present some great difficulty for legal persons, and we do not see why such a long time has been given to meet that condition. As we heard earlier, about 10% of the contribution is lost annually due to unscheduled payments or inability to adequately control. When this is illustrated by the example of pensions, it comes out at an annual level of just over 150m euros. This law will allow for better information on the failures involved in the payment of contributions by employers. And will this law also activate state-response mechanisms? I don't think so. Will the adoption of this law settle the issue of late payments? I don't think so. According to some data, about 70% of the strikes that take place in our country are just about debts on outstanding contributions. As this government sees the future of this country, I think it best says Mr. Krkobibic's statement, which was published in one week: "We will talk about the future when this future is current". I think that statement speaks for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40399	The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40400	My distinguished colleague Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic has submitted an amendment to Article 36. The draft law, where it is prescribed that applicants of a single application – legal persons who do not provide technical conditions for the submission of a single application in electronic form until the date of fulfilment of the technical conditions for the establishment and operation of the Single Base, may submit a single application to the Central Register in paper form through the organisational units of the Republic Fund for PIO and the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund no later than 31.12.2012. In the amendment, we said the word "paper" is replaced by the word "written". With this amendment, we wanted to correct the concept that is inappropriate and not in the spirit of Serbian. Namely, an businessman who wants to fill in for himself, a worker and a family member's application for pension and health insurance is obliged to fill in and sign 27 forms, i.e. 52 of the paper. The costs of reporting procedures are at 1.5 billion dinars per year or 15m euros. Imagine how much documentation it would take, let's say, to Milet Jerkovic, who bought everything alive that could have been purchased by Vojvodina, starting with agricultural combinations, transport companies, etc. What's certainly a fact, it's that he left the wilderness behind, that all the workers on the street, and most embarrassingly, the state seems to have begun to protect him. In fact, you're all aware, when this thing started about Saric, that this is where the agricultural company "The Unity" from Gajdobra was purchased, where Mile Jerkovic owned it. Suddenly, the man who lives in Novi Sad, every night there are 15 gendarmes around him, no one alive can come near him. You will have to explain why you protect such people, who have ruined at least 50 extremely strong enterprises in Vojvodina, without any sanctions and absolutely no obligation. The position of the SRS is, above all, a criticism of this irresponsible government, a criticism of the change in 2000, of your famous treaty with the people in 10 points, but it is certainly a fact that, as I said a moment ago, you have charged Serbia with 82 billion dinars. Public enterprises are paramedical. That's what we had a chance to see here, too, where loans are constantly raised to cover their losses. The state is in debt from day to day, and all of this is shifted to the burden of citizens, by subsidising public enterprises, instead of creating atmosphere and ambience, good laws and their respect, above all, to bring foreign investment into existence. The political parties of this ruling majority will fight until the last drop of our blood and the blood of taxpayers to keep their paws on public enterprises. This is also seen when the government comes together after the elections for three months, and the division of public enterprises takes place per year. Further borrowing of our country is completely pointless, as it interferes with the arrival of investors. Some speculator may come, but a serious investor will open up a business in Serbia in due course, certainly not. The SRS will not vote for the proposed law. Not because we oppose legislative reform, but because we believe that this law should respect certain rules, that it has a clear strategy to address the problem of Serbia's social protection, and you certainly have no good intentions when it comes to citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Because, apart from new duties and large debts, we got nothing, and the state, unfortunately, is getting smaller and smaller from day to day with this policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40401	Mr. Stevanovic, your parliamentary group has two minutes and 10 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40402	That's enough. If I had anyone else to convince him to accept the amendment, it would be good. I really don't see why you didn't accept this. This is the law technique again. There's no politics here now, this is technique. Which is very interesting, this is, I think, the first time that in the laws that have entered into the procedure since the constitution of this institution one of these categories or combinations – 'in paper form' is imposed. We suggested that it go in writing. Listen to the explanation. It says – legal persons who do not provide technical conditions for the submission of a single electronic application in accordance with technical conditions for the establishment and operation of a Single Base in the Central Register, submit a single application to the Central Register in paper form, i.e. they will submit a single application in the form of a written but paper form. Then why didn't you put it in Article 24? It can't be like that. Practice should be the same for both the first and the last members, to follow. In Article 24, you say, at the request of the insurance company, the confidence of the data from the Unique Database can also be issued in writing. What's not in writing paper? It is understood that we will not write on parchment. Next thing you know, we're proposing this. You only refused to accept the amendment. Because if you had arguments not to accept them, you would have put them in an argument. So we ask you once again to think and accept this. Both technically and nomotechnically and in any other sense, we think it's more acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40403	Gentlemen, the tendency of legislation is precisely to avoid the administration you're talking about in the Central Register. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40404	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for explaining to us what we know of course after we read the law, discussed it, and wrote amendments that we're trying to not know who to convince to accept, because one we might be able to try to convince isn't here. Mrs. Lakicevic understands what we're talking about, but unfortunately she has no ability to answer us or accept it. I'm going to ask you to tell me how much time my parliamentary group has left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40405	Ten minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40406	Thank you. So I'll talk about the amendment, plus the time of my parliamentary group, so don't interrupt me. What does Article 37 apply to? It refers to the application of Articles 16(2) and 20(2) of this Act. What are these members talking about? First, about the tax administration data. These are part of the aggregate tax returns on the invoiced and charged contributions to compulsory social security. The second, Article 20(2), refers to the data relating to the basis of the contribution, the amount of the contribution paid and the periods to which these payments relate. It's actually all the data that the Central Register needs to publish for each insurance company to show to each individual person. Both of these types of data, you say in the bill, should be delivered to the Central Register on the basis of an act to be adopted by the finance minister by 1 January 2013. Given the fact that I have to remind you, which you seem to have forgotten, that today is 29 April 2010 and that by 1 January 2013, you have more than two and a half years and given the second fact, which is that Serbia loses 10% of the total fee, which is between 150m and 200m euros annually, only because of inefficient control of the collection of contributions, that is, I think, a large sum, which is why the government needs to worry. It goes into the fire, into the water and into someone's pockets, but obviously it doesn't go to the citizens of Serbia. So for more than two and a half years, this money will only be lost because we are not able as a state to undertake reforms and solve something in that direction. The DSS parliamentary group claims that you did very unseriously when you set such long deadlines. Why do we say that? Except for these facts that I have cited, I will tell you that you are in an explanation why you are asking for this law to be passed by emergency procedure to be sought and discussed the reasons for the urgent adoption of this law. We of the DSS really think that he is urgently to be brought in and we have given you rational deadlines in all the three amendments that we have submitted here, but you simply cannot talk about urgency if you apply something on January 1st, 2013. But what kind of urgency are we talking about here? About another kind of urgency. The government of Vojislav Kostunica, which is the only real reform government, provided funds to implement the system's reform in 2005. That's the money we're talking about. That money must be used by 30 September 2010. That urgency is important to you. Not the urgency to dissipate the state, to increase the budget, not the urgency to solve the problems that arise here because of inadequate collection and small collection controls. You need this urgency – so give us the money, we'll talk about the reforms later. And what reforms are we going to talk about later? Now I'm going to read you what you wrote to me as an explanation for why you don't accept the amendment. There are two kinds of data you gave me, which are amazing. First, 'Amendment is not accepted for reasons of Article 37. The draft law stipulates that from 1 January 2013 the provisions of Article 16(2) and Article 20(2) of that Law will be applied, and that by that time, the Minister in charge of Finance will adopt an act laying down a form of tax application for invoiced and charged contributions to compulsory social security after deduction'. I can't believe you're the one who convinced me of article 37 you wrote in law. I guess you're assuming I'm not so funny as to write you an amendment to article 37 that I don't know what it's like. So you convinced me of article 37 on the grounds why you don't accept the amendment. Please, I've written an amendment to change that Article 37, so please don't write that to me again. The second part of the argument, be careful: ''In view of the fact that it is comprehensive data related to the billing and collection of contributions for compulsory social security and the taking over of transactions related to the change of software and technical links in the Tax Administration and the preparation of a new act which will regulate the procedures relating to the tax application form for the invoiced and charged contributions to compulsory social security after deduction, it is realistic to start delivery from 1 January 2013... '". Please, what do you say to me in this explanation? You just tell me -- you know, gentlemen, it's all nice of you to write, but the state is unable to take on the commitments it needs to make when it's reformed. Well, your obligation is reform, this is part of that reform. The pension system is part of the reform. It was due in February 2010, today at the end of April 2010. We'll wait until 2012, if you stay in power, it'll be so regulated. So you're telling me that the state doesn't have the capacity, that it's not reformed, and you keep telling us about how you reformed this, so now this, now this. That clearly says, I didn't make up any facts. It's amazing how much passion you write these arguments with. I can accept that you wrote - we don't accept the amendment because it doesn't go according to what we wanted. But this is how you humiliate MPs who have a very clear idea of what they want to achieve. Furthermore, when we spoke in principle, we were talking about the Central Register that it is really necessary and needed now, and that that is why we felt that all deadlines should be accelerated, and you, to us, in the image of the gentleman we quoted today several times, say that we will talk about the future when the future becomes current. Well, that's exactly what this law looks like. We are talking about this future that will be current on 31 December 2012. Then why the law? Why bring it today if it will be current on December 31st, 2012? Please, it's unserious. We're talking about a very serious thing, a thing that needs to give this country 10% of the total billing every year to keep it in the budget. It's a budget discharge of 150m to 200m euros. And you say, "What do we care? It's not much of a means. We're going to go through it, we're going to make software calculations." Please don't play. This is how this country works. Unfortunately, we can't help you. We know we're helping you, we're writing you amendments that are very meaningful, you don't accept them, your arguments are what they are. The only thing I can say is, God help these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40407	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go. Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40408	Of course, we will easily agree that the deadlines given in this law are quite stretching, but that they are both the product of the agreement and of the talks that we have had with the competent institutions that are in charge of implementing the law itself. I think we'll make a much smaller mistake if we give these deadlines than the deadlines we won't be able to meet. The enforcement of this law is also related to co-operation with the World Bank, which, as you know, finances a $25m loan to consolidate the collection and reform of the pension administration in Serbia. The procedures the World Bank is looking for are both long and complicated, and we will not be able to obtain software until the end of this year. The experiences of individual countries that have also worked with the World Bank on a similar project suggest that the implementation of these software itself and the way it will function takes at least a year. For all these reasons, we have decided to give maximum deadlines, December 31, 2012, to enable employers to send applications in electronic form, which means that this deadline can be shorter if we can technically meet all the requirements for the application of this law. So, in principle, I can't give any critical reference to this remark of yours, which stands, but it seems to me that in practice we couldn't predict shorter deadlines without these deadlines being respected. I'm sorry, since I've already taken the floor, I'd like to say that we accept the amendment to Article 25, which was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40409	Thank you. So Mr. Momchilov's amendment has been accepted. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic. You've got four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40410	Mr. Minister, first I must thank you. I am truly honored that you have come to hear at least part of what we have tried to say to you, first of all, because we want you to accept our amendments, but also to the public, because we think they should hear. I'm glad I can discuss it with you, because I rarely have that honor, I usually speak in vain because you're not here, so I'd say a few things to what you said, that we could open up a little bit of the story. You said the funds still have to be met. The funds should be used by 30 September of this year, 2010. They were provided in 2005, so your funds are available. All you have to do is show that you've really made that reform, so you'll get it. Furthermore, the deadlines you have set in this bill are deadlines for another government. Even if you make the most of your mandate, and I don't think you can do it, you're not going to enforce this law, you're going to be executed by that other government. Next, you say – the practice has shown. The practice of this government has probably shown that you can't do it any faster. That's exactly what I was saying in my explanation. If you're prolonging something that you have here and simply finished, you've had the opportunity to work on it, if you extend it by the end of December 2013, that's three and a half years from today, and you know you're losing 10% of the total budget, you lose 150 to 200 million euros every year, and you can't hurry. You know, we didn't want to accept it, so we'd have to make a mistake, and then we'd have to hurry. That's what we're talking about. Guys, this is about time you got your mind straight and worked faster, if you can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40411	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40412	Just one little correction. It is true that we had to spend the funds in the original contract by September 2010, and because of the delay in the implementation of the whole project we received an extension of the loan by September 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40413	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Vojić Markovic, you have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40414	I'm so glad I can discuss it. First of all, in the reasons for passing the law by an emergency procedure provided by the Serbian government, it writes differently, and then that means that you cheat on MPs, which is wrong. On the other hand, one more thing you said, you confirmed exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40415	The minister speaks absolutely nothing but facts. Here you go, Mr. Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40416	Don't make it look like I'm lying. The day before yesterday, we got the extension of this contract that you're talking about. We haven't even formally signed it yet, but we got the agreement that the loan would be extended in a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40417	Here you go, Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40418	I didn't say you were lying, if that's what you realized. I just called the document we got on this paper. Madam President, you told me, I can't remember quoting what you said, but I didn't say anything but what it says in the Central Register Bill. That's what it says. I was quoting what it says on page 23. Nothing less and nothing more. If things are different, then it's news to me, too, which Mr. Minister said. So it's not true that I wanted to fool someone or that I wanted to offend the minister, I just wanted to show that the minister doesn't know what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40419	I think it's incorrect to say the minister doesn't know what he's talking about, but it's a matter of how you judge that you should comment. On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40420	This article sets out the time of entry into force of this law, which is 1 January 2013. I propose by amendment that it be on 1 January 2011, first of all because it is too long for this law to enter into force. In principle, we also had a complaint about the matter. Why is it necessary for such a simple operation as taking over existing data, registering new and registering changes for another three years, since all social security organisations have modern systems, trained personnel and a programme that would combine the requested data, which are neither complicated nor expensive? In the time of high unemployment, experts, in the era of electronics, in the 21st century, have been waiting another three years for data collection to be realized. As the processes in modern technologies take place incredibly quickly, the question is whether the system of monitoring and processing of data will be exceeded in 2013. The government's explanation is like Mrs. Vojić Markovic's, you convinced me of Article 37. The reasons for the refusal of the amendment are not specified, nor are any grounds of technical, financial or any other nature listed for not accepting this amendment. Some new forms are mentioned, tax returns, but that's no reason to wait so long to apply this law. I think the reason is in something else. The most likely is the lack of interest and ineffectiveness of the authorities to settle the issue (therefore they have not even taken the money from the approved loan) and the fact that the social security services are in the responsibility of the two ministries, which cannot be matched because they are occupied by other jobs, and what is important to the citizens of Serbia is not for them. This explanation can't be why this data is being collected for another three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40421	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, 5 May 2010, starting at 10.00pm, as the Day of Vote on all agenda points of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Thank you for your cooperation. I only remind you that today we will be able to ask government ministers 1600 to 19.00 hours, and I expect us to be in large numbers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40422	Dear People's MPs, since today is the last Thursday of the month, and in accordance with Article 200(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. Every MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government, and out of their jurisdiction. This right is defined by Article 199(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated (Article 192(2)). Rules of Procedure. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes (Article 199(4)). Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40423	The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority (Article 199(6)). Rules of Procedure. The Government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. Also, according to Article 202. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum period of five minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and apportionment of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 211. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be established according to current practice, so that, in turn, the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to sending questions. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, I have prepared myself for the matter of Minister Mrkonjic. Since he's gone, and there's the Deputy Prime Minister, I'll ask Mr. Djelic. It's a really serious problem, a very serious issue, and it's a section of the highway from the border crossing to the village of Levosoja near Bujanovac. He was officially released for use last year in July, but, once I brought it up, the jobs were not long gone. Overpasses haven't been built there yet, and there's a lot of other follow-up jobs to make it a highway. However, the situation now is dramatic. It's not working at all right now. On the first question I asked, I received an answer from Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic that this job will be completed by July of this year. But there's no work here right now, and time is running out. Every day there are incidents, and more severe, all the way to human casualties. Because now the conditions in this new tape, which is the only one in use, are harder than how it was originally, when only that old tape worked. Obstacles and people have been set up, especially those who are not from that field, very often have serious problems. There should be an urgent view of the situation with the Investment Plan, whether it is achieved according to the response I received from the minister, and if not, the traffic police must remove those obstacles, cross the line and create normal conditions, so that there are no new serious incidents with human victims. I've waited a few times for Minister Dinkic to ask him a question from the privatisation area, but I'm going to have to refer him to Mr Djelic again. What do you do with small companies, where there are 30-40 remaining workers, for whom, when they strike, no one knows how to strike? This is not a situation where there are hundreds, thousands, so the whole public is overrun by this problem. And they strike because after privatisation, everyone in turn, they're out of a job. After those two, three, four legal deadlines, it is now moving on to the further use of the new owner, and he has absolutely not fulfilled any of those legal obligations in the case of a social programme and other obligations that belong to workers under the social programme. The situation is dramatic in '7. July's Presevo and...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40425	It's been three minutes, Mr. Halimi. You'll have a chance to talk later. Mr. Vice President, do you want to answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40426	Madam President, in short, I can only say that what my colleague Mrkonjic said stands, and that is that by 2012 we will end Corridor 10. The only possible exception is the Gredile ravine. It's complicated, as you know, for well-known reasons. Greece, which was to finance one part of that arm, from Leskovci to our border with Macedonia, is currently unable to allocate such funds. In particular, for those obstacles and for the date of completion of this stock, I have no answer for you now. Of course, I will communicate with my colleague Mrkonjic and you will get, in accordance with Article 201(1), the written answer to your question. As far as privatised companies are concerned, the problem of privatised companies is also a reflection of the current economic crisis and the fact that in a number of cases, which, according to the statistics of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, does not exceed 22% of the total number of signed agreements, new owners have not fulfilled one or any of the commitments they have made at the moment of privatisation. The outcome is known in that case. If, even after the renewed negotiations and additional deadlines (even if they are not complete), the obligation is not met, the company shall be returned to its original state, i.e. must go back to the procedure or restructuring of the privatisation entity. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made it clear that financial resources to cover personal incomes in companies after privatisation are not available, that there is a possibility (as seen in several cases) for certain social assistance, and that the government will make maximum efforts to ensure that the internship, on the one hand, and health insurance, wherever possible, is provided. For the seriousness of this question, I will ask my colleague Mr. Mladjan Dinkic to answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40427	Mr. Riza Halimi, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40428	As far as the first question is concerned, it's okay to plan to Grdelica, and we know that this stock will be the hardest, but here is the overwhelming problem with what's started, and it's not finished. It causes huge problems, both for people who need to go to their fields on the other side of the highway, and there are no overpasses, and for normal traffic on that section. He is drastically threatened and, absolutely, regardless of the plans of Minister Mrkonjic, I think Minister Dacic must intervene urgently and that the traffic at least normalises, because as it is, it is really wrong. As far as privatisation issues are concerned, I would only add, since not only in this case, but also in all others, the workers are running litigation disputes, there are also those where the owner has failed to comply with their obligations and has, earlier, even the Supreme Court, and now has, for example, been. Case in Cassation Court. And there you should see, at least in that domain, how much right that injustice that has been done to them so far. Because it's really very difficult social cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40429	Thank you. MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40430	Madam President, I would like to ask the government a question because I have not yet received an answer to the question I have asked many times. I'm sorry that Mr. Dulic is not here, who's had a violent performance these days on TV and explained that everything is done by law and law. How does the job work "Nuba Invest" when it's not registered for it (RATEL officially responded to me)? How does a 25m-euro job, setting up optical cables, work without a tender? Who signed it, and what public enterprises approved it? I have letters from public enterprises. Why is a removed lawyer, the director of legal affairs, who said it couldn't be done? That's number one. Number two, is it true that now the Macedonian border ends without paper, which we have now heard about, and Dulic says nothing is done without paper anymore? Is it true that Kragujevac, the highway, works without even one single paper (the same problem, there is no crossing from one side to the other) and no project documentation? Is it true that the overpass is done without any paperwork? Is it true that Dulic was given permission for his private firm (whom he registered it to, I don't know) in New Belgrade, "Storages", for which he is responsible as minister, and is involved in production? Mr. Djelic, is it true that you personally opened the Delta City, which had neither a building permit nor a useful permit? I at the government then warned that the Delta City facility could not be opened because there was no paperwork, and you went and opened the facility. He doesn't have a license today, he doesn't have the most basic elements. If anything happens there, people get hurt. So is that true or not true? I repeat, don't campaign to work on the paperwork, that some have worked without documentation. That's not true. Here's a concrete example of what's going on right now. Let me not tell you about the tender being called at the moment. Read the Duke's Way what it says to you these days. Read it and get the papers. They delivered that question to all of us. I feel responsible and often ask a variety of questions. I feel responsible for leading the changes and promising real change, not what you're doing in the government right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40431	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40432	We will answer these questions asked by Mr Velimir Ilic, in accordance with Article 201(1) written by way of information now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40433	Mr. Ilic wants to comment. Although there's no answer, I don't know what you'd like to comment on, but I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40434	I can't understand. I always ask Dulic the same question and he can't write me an answer. All deadlines have passed, and everyone else who wrote disagrees with his oral explanation. He repeatedly spoke and insulted MP Ilic and said that after my work, there was a nuclear disaster. But I now claim that after his works in Serbia, there is general chaos, because he does nothing. It doesn't do anything, everything does. What are you waiting for, Mr. Djelic? Is it waiting now to sell Miskovic's apartments that were used for this university competition so that construction can be released in Belgrade or is there some other reason? Here, an hour ago we had a meeting with the builders, everyone wanted to meet me. There's nothing to be done. There's no license they can get. Why? You have to explain that. Do you communicate in government? Here, Mr. Djelic, one easier question for you, which you may be able to answer. Do you, Mr. Djelic, as Deputy Prime Minister and a man who has been in the government for ten years, agree with the opinion of your party chief, who recently went into the media and said - I will not allow all means, and also the last atom of power, to have some of them come to power there, etc.? Then why are we calling the election? Do they need an election then? They don't need an election, do they? And was that nice to say on the day when the election was held in Arangelovec? How do you comment on your party chief, who went out and threatened to invest the last atom of strength that they couldn't beat'someone there', what did he call them, in any election? What do you think, for life to rule? Do you guys ever think about calling the election? Oh, no? Well, you don't have to, of course. Then the pole will work, for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40435	Mr. Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40436	Mr. Ilic, there will be elections in constitutionally-legislative terms and I am proud of my president, who has proved, by the policy he has defended, that he does not use violence in any way. And if it had enormous energy, it would. And that's why we're going to win again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40437	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40438	Madam President, Your Honor, I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic. I'm glad you're proud to be here in the assembly today, but I would just like that pride to come from the results of your work, not from what President Tadic is doing. I need to introduce you to what I think you know very well, with an organized effort to compromise an important job in which we were partners - LDP, DS and the ruling majority. This partnership came from great and bad experience, and it was in the role of reforming our judiciary. I want to introduce you to what every normal man in this country knows, with an organized project to bring down the reform of our judiciary, which has been implemented incompletely, with a lot of weaknesses and too much resistance. For what is bad in this reform, it is exclusively a responsible policy, not those who are the holders of the reform in the field of justice, but as Vice-President of the Government in charge of European integration, you no longer have the right to remain silent before the interpretations of the views of the European Commission, which we usually use very often as a crucial argument in proving the quality of a policy for which we have defined ourselves. So we will very easily agree that the judiciary in this country has been destroyed, that it has done politics and that it has been in such a state that it has been impossible without political intervention and will to affirm this judiciary in an independent branch of government, which must be in a democratically regulated society. So tell us, Deputy Prime Minister, everything this country needs to hear about the adviser of the President of the Republic or his secretary, because the Presidency doesn't want to tell us, then tell us everything you know about the critics of the judicial reform, and then take a clear stand before those who don't understand or fully understand everything this Parliament has decided by adopting a law that preceded judicial reform, and then by carrying out judicial reform, which has defined as their first step, because it was necessary, the choice of judicial holders in this country. That choice was made, here the ruling majority kept silent when the Supreme Cassation Court president was elected, when decisions were made on the appointment and selection of key figures in our judiciary. As Deputy Prime Minister, you should say what Jelko Kacin, rapporteur of the European Parliament, said two months ago here, and I expect you to discuss it. These questions that some other MPs ask you are permanently current, but if you fail to defend the reform of the judiciary, we will end up where we were on the eve of March 12, 2003, when Serbian judges and prosecutors had an understanding for assassins of the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister accused us of misusing his position.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40439	Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40440	Yes, Mr. Jovanovic, on March 12th, when the Prime Minister was killed, a man approached me in the government building of the Republic of Serbia a few days later and there was a reasonable doubt that he was the informant of those who killed the prime minister. He was the deputy member of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. It is true that this tragedy has its roots in the unreformed justice system, and it is true that it is one of the important motivations for these changes. It's also true that there are criticisms. As the justice minister herself said, if there are certain individual mistakes, they will be corrected. It is also true that the European Commission was in its position when, responding to criticism from certain former or current holders of these functions, it wanted to offer its support. This support in no way can and will not be involved in our internal organisation, but it is certain that one of the very important elements of European integration is the achievement of European standards in the domain of justice. Certainly, it is not a European standard which, according to statistics shown by the High Council of the Judiciary, 80% of the verdicts for those who trade drugs are outdated or sentenced to minimum legal limits and which is a large number of deliberate or unintentional cases that have allowed those who have violated the law to flee from the face of justice. This is, we confirm, an extremely important reform, a reform that will contribute, we are confident in the government that the situation in Serbia is much better, that this fight against organised crime also has a judicial outcome. If there are individual errors, they will be corrected, and we will see proof of success, I am convinced, in the months and years to come, through concrete cases and concrete judgments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40441	Mr. Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40442	Mr. Djelic, maybe we didn't understand each other. I have no dilemma about your willingness to agree with what was on March 12, 2003, but explain to me, as Deputy Prime Minister, why your government has not said a single word about the attack on the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the Minister of Justice. What kind of country does the government keep quiet while her minister accuses himself of being a member of some judicial mob? Who does that? Why don't you discuss within your cabinet whether it's true that Vladimir Cvian put aside amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure and thus tried to compromise the President of the Republic, preventing him from carrying out constitutional and legal obligations, with the disastrous consequences of letting people who were indicted before the Special Court for the fight against organised crime in the process of killing Zoran Djindjic? Is that true or not true? Is that when we called the cabinet and worked it out? Years have passed since then. Why wasn't it published in "The Official Messenger"? Because he left it in his drawer to amend and supplement the law, and told the president that some medals had arrived for signature. If it was enough for someone not to make him secretary general, just leave him as acting official, you have no right to remain silent today. While your government is silent, others are not waiting for you to remember what your job is. If you're going into judicial reform, you finish it. If this parliament has passed the laws, then it should be declared. It's not an obligation, by law, of the High Judicial Council to write to anyone the reasons why he wasn't elected. The country's constitutional court said it was not about reelection, but about the choice of judges. If we don't cut that Gordy knot, that agony will destroy our judiciary. Then who will be willing to obey the law in this country if the state that defines the laws does not want to do such a thing? You don't have to talk to me about the importance of such a process. Let the European Commission know. We did our job. All we have discussed with us is the importance of this reform, the problems that follow this reform, the mistakes that are inevitable, the minimum percentage of errors, the fact that the High Council of the judiciary cannot be held responsible for the fact that one of the candidates died in the process of running or voting, and the High Council of the judiciary is not informed of the lack of one or two documents. These mistakes need to be corrected, but you won't get another chance to reform our judiciary. What's best in him has taken responsibility and is ready to carry the burden of his work, but he's not ready to carry the burden of an incompetent government. You have no right as Deputy Prime Minister, I address you as an institution, to keep your mouth shut about it. Why should one opposition party defend the minister of justice, if not the government whose minister she is? That's what we're interested in. There's no one today who can beat him with papers, by letter from Jacques Baros, and misread him. Has anyone told Jacques Barroso the truth about the Serbian judiciary? And in 2003 we were exposed to these pressures, so we talked. Even then Europe had no understanding of the resolution of judges, so when we explained which judges, which judges come to places some go, they showed understanding. Judges who were first in the judiciary, in war crimes trials, in the fight against organised crime, who ruled in the most difficult processes conducted in this country are individuals who took key positions in the Serbian judiciary, but we, as a parliament, have passed some laws and they are obliged to act under these laws. If something in those laws isn't good, then it's not the judiciary that's responsible, it's us who passed those laws. This should be discussed openly and said what motives are there when these laws are criticised, whether these motives are solely those that should be crucial in giving our views, let's say the future of this country, or whether someone has become a critic of judicial reform because he has not received the exclusive right to license notaries in this country. Someone became a critic of the president of the judicial reform because he could not become chief judge of the Constitutional Court, someone became critic of the prosecutor's election because he did not become the first prosecutor. It's government business. True, no matter how difficult it may be, it must not be the subject of compromise and do not compromise with it. I don't need you to explain anything to me about the 2003 deputy prosecutor, but you are obliged to explain to this society how you will implement judicial reform if you don't fight for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40443	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40444	We agree. It wouldn't be the first time in ten years to try to replace the thesis, that those who fight the mafia were declared a mob, that those who had the courage to look the Legion in the eye when many were running away from responsibility based on evidence to give that conviction and that such a verdict would be confirmed. And maybe it's not a surprise, maybe it's a little disappointment, that so many years later we see that these resistances still exist, that various relationships that were obviously still there, through politicization, are trying to come back to life. We won't let that happen. It seems to me that the best defense of this reform is the undivided support that we give to the Minister of Justice, the undivided support given by the Government to this reform, undivided support, I can now tell you, and our European partners, whose concern is not to desecrate this reform, which they also know is crucial to our country. There is also evidence of the problems that countries have which have entered the EU and which may have good economic performance, but because they have not implemented one reform like this which, with all these difficulties, we are implementing, why it is important. Their concern is in place, and it's to be implemented without any mistake. So there is no room for your concern, this reform will be implemented to the end, because it shows and reads the future of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40445	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40446	I wouldn't want us as politicians to just believe. It's the subject of some other institutions, certainly not parliament. We're obliged to work. And when you, Mr. Vice President, say there will be reform, then you have to show us the plan, very concrete, how it will be done. You're obliged to tell us - tomorrow I'm traveling to Brussels to explain our motives to Mr. Barroso, to get him to know our situation, to clear up if something is controversial, to correct some mistakes if they were done, because no one intended to harm anyone. On the contrary, we did so in the name of our common good. Your support for the Justice Minister would have been intimate if I hadn't asked a question. The government may use SMS messages to support itself, but I have not noticed that the Prime Minister has said one word about it, nor has anyone here of the ruling majority felt the need to question not solidarity, but the responsibility of this parliament, which has chosen the holders of judicial functions and passed some laws. They're not contentious, but don't forget what country we live in. Just don't forget it. Do not forget that the responsibility for the Belgrade judiciary was assumed by the first person in this country to give the verdict to the "scorpion" when more "scorpion" was in the audience than on the indictee's bench, when it was threatened, not by those who killed. Don't forget it's not the job of the Supreme Cassation Court president to fight his country again, as she has led in the past, doing her job, and I mean at the time of the trial of the murderers of Zoran Djindjic. No one can solve this except the government. If you need help, ask for help. You received help when you voted for the law and elected judges, not by looking for your staff and place for them in the judiciary, but by supporting you to resist such pressures. We did not do this to be accomplices to an incompetent and silent policy, but to help you to be even stronger in this business. The judiciary can't be DS Justice or LDP or radicals or anyone else, but that's how it's gonna be until someone releases it. We started this job together, and we handed over the judiciary to those people who showed that they had the ability to be independent, and now these people are expected to take responsibility for a state that isn't willing to do something like that. I ask you once again when the government will plead, but not by condemning something individually, but by telling the truth about the role of the acting secretary general in the presidency, the gravity of his accusations, the foundation of his accusations, when a clear, quick and effective investigation will be conducted, so tell the citizens- there is no criminal act here, but there are all other moral aspects that degrade this person, and such an attempt is properly devised. It is not the job of journalists or opposition MPs or some democratic public, but rather the bearer of the most important state functions. You are the vice-president in charge of European integration, and I expect you, on behalf of the 220,000 LDP voters, to clear the reform of the judiciary in the eyes of the EU if it exists, and if it does not exist, do not just say that, but let EU representatives say so. Those we co-operate with at the level of parliamentary co-operation made it very clear when it was time. The European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia congratulated the holders of judicial functions a month and a half ago on the reforms carried out and said you were starting to create a state. Those who are on the surface of politics may not be fully informed, and you are obliged to arrange the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40447	Mr Jovanovic, relations between the EU and the European Commission and Serbia are excellent. Those relationships are complicated. It is 27 member states and the European Commission. And what I can tell you is that there's nothing left. Mr. Stefan File was on the first day of work, his first meeting was with representatives of Serbia and the first point we discussed was the reform of our judicial system. In the last two and a half months, as long as he is here, we have met on four occasions with him and with other representatives, and in ten days again in the European Parliament and at meetings with the European commissioners we will have the opportunity to demonstrate the correctness of this reform, which no one in Europe doubts. So I think this is one of the key moments and I believe that one of the key reforms that will mark the work of this government and this assembly, because this one without each other can't actually be this reform of the judicial system. It will be one of those bases that will ensure the real development of our country, the development in the fight against organised crime, but also the real development of our economic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40448	The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40449	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Djelic, somehow most of these questions are addressed to you today, so I'm going to ask you to comment on a few things and give you an answer. I would ask you to comment on the latest diplomatic, political and economic offensive of the Republic of Turkey to the Balkan countries and recently very intense political co-operation between Serbia and Turkey. It is just amazing how many meetings, meetings, etc. over the past year, so that the citizen and MP somehow get the impression that Serbia's only strategic partner is currently Turkey. As far as I know and as far as your government is concerned, Serbia has several very significant strategic partners, but believe me, the impression that is coming at this point is that it is only Turkey. Did your government change course? Namely, did you decide to lead Serbia instead of the EU to the new Ottoman Empire? Will future European integration be called Ottoman integration and will you become the minister in charge of Ottoman integration instead of European integration? Not to mention the words 'Renovate the Ottoman Empire', I will quote to you the words of current Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, who said in October at the Conference on the topic 'The Ottoman Heritage of the Muslim community of the Balkans today' in Sarajevo: 'We will make the Balkans, the Caucasus... "Please listen to me. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, but I'm quoting something that the current foreign minister has said and I'd very much like you to hear. I've only got three minutes and I'm running out of time. Can we do it now? "We will make the Balkans, the Caucasus, the Middle East along with the Turkish Centre of World Policy in the future. This is the goal of Turkish foreign policy and we will achieve it," the head of diplomacy told the conference. So Turkey's foreign policy, the foreign minister, clearly and loudly says what the goals are, among other things, in the Balkans. Please comment on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40450	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40451	Mrs. Banovic, we're kind of neighbors. You're from Dimitrovgrad or Bosilegrad. It's from Dimitrovgrad, isn't it? You see, in January of last year, at a meeting with the president of France's Michelen, it was a question so that we could have a significant increase in the capacity of the factory in Pirot. Nine million tires a year, it's a motorcycle centre, and for certain rubber replacements, it's a successful company. Of course, the difficulties have been lately, but now production has started again. So, to fight poverty and underdevelopment, not only in Pirot, but in the whole region – how can we significantly increase the capacity of Mišlena? The answer is that if Serbia develops trade relations, especially the possibility that industrial products can be exported without customs duties to Turkey, it would be a great opportunity for "Mischelen", because they do not have a factory in Turkey and are twice more expensive to develop a new factory than to expand existing capacity. Until then, first of all, they had in mind that they were doing it from their existing factory in Romania, but yes, there it is (Congratulations to the Pyrocans and to us Southerners), they believe that this factory in Pirot is one of the best, if not the best in the world. That's why I'm very happy to tell you that it's our activity, i.e. Negotiations, conclusion and signing of the Free Trade Agreement with Turkey something that led to the decision "Mišlena" to significantly increase production capacity in Pirote, to the extent that we can well discuss that what will be Corridor 10, which is heading towards the border with Bulgaria, cannot in any way interfere with the further expansion of their factory. That's what we're talking about. We are talking about Turkey in 21st being a country whose population will move from the current 73 million to the 100 million inhabitants. We are talking about that it has significant resources, industrial and human resources, and opportunities to play a significant role in the region. Serbia, which will never give up the goal of joining the EU, of course, and thus sees the benefits, both economically and geopolitically, of developing very close and friendly relations with Turkey. Of course, not by a millimeter away from those of our state interests and at any point without bypassing the problem of recognising unfortunately illegally declared independence from Kosovo by Turkey and sometimes certain performances by some of its officials, who each time, be assured, also have a diplomatic outcome. What you quoted, if I'm aware, is an introduction, but you should read a book Mr. Davutoglu published before he became a minister. It is one thing to be an intellectual, another thing to be a minister, but the book shows a goal that is peaceful, the goal of modernisation and Turkey with which Serbia can work for the benefit of its citizens and the entire region. Mischlen sees the biggest development in Europe at this point in Turkey. Turkey will grow 1% this year, where the euro area, according to the latest IMF forecasts available, will grow 5%. Because of demographic activity, because of what they have managed to do in the last 20 years, it will be one of the great economic and economic opportunities. Serbia will find ways to co-operate with Turkey, not giving up on its state policy or in the country or in the region, and that its development will be at the same time the development of the Republic of Serbia. It's a visionary foreign policy of Serbia. Serbia's foreign policy is not to fear anyone, but to boldly spread partnerships, extend friendships and benefit our citizens and all members of the Serbian people wherever they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40452	Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40453	Thank you, Mr. Djelic. You've already told us a secret. We now know that in Istanbul, in the Istanbul Declaration, tire production in the Tiger is agreed. You set a bad example when it comes to economic co-operation. Of course, absolutely not, nor can anyone normal be against good economic co-operation, good relations, etc. Why didn't you talk to us, and why didn't you encourage us when it came to "May 1st" Pirot? Why didn't you encourage us when it came to GID Dimitrovgrad? They've all ruined companies. You have set an example of the best firm in Serbia. A few years ago, it was the best exporter. But I expected a slightly different answer from you. I cannot say that I was expecting a moment of truth, but I will ask you to comment on one moment of the truth of our foreign minister, when in November in the European Parliament, he answered the questions of European parliamentarians, as follows. The headlines in the Serbian press, which shyly wrote about the 'diplomatic incident', also quoted Jeremic as saying, 'We will not get on the same train to Europe with Turkey'. Jeremic said there are forces in the EU that advocate a break in EU enlargement after Croatia's entry and that there is a problem with Turkey's integration into the EU at the same time. Our foreign minister said a few months ago, "That would be a very bad message to the region because we've been under the Turks for 500 years and we'll be back in the waiting room with them." "It is not a good message for those who have been under Turks for so long in the past," Jeremic said just seven days after visiting Turkish President Belgrade. You remember, Mr. Gul stayed several times, but this was somewhere at the end of the year. And this is what our foreign minister said, I repeat, at some point of truth. Again, I ask you, because we are all concerned about the future of this country, whether Serbia's future is in the EU or Serbia's future in this new Ottoman Empire, because you say that the foreign minister wrote one thing while he was an intellectual, and that being a minister is something else, and that this is what he says, not that he sends a clear message to all the peoples and all the countries in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40454	Mr. Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40455	Things have been clear since the Thessaloniki summit in 2003, it is clear that the entire Western Balkans has a European future, and that has been confirmed over and over again. We know that the position of various EU member states towards Turkey is different, there are different positions and there is no consensus within the EU on the issue of Turkey's EU accession, as there is a consensus of EU member states for Serbia and other Western Balkan countries to join the EU. But, Mrs. Banovic, it's hard for me to understand that every time I come to this parliament, it's trying to find an enemy where it's not there. Today in Turkey, the last time was a problem with the Fiat and investment. I'm asking you -- where are we Southerners going to sell those tires? Where are we gonna sell those cars? Where will we find support for, for, for moments, a rather complicated, regional relationship, rather than where there is a key to their resolution? We need one multi-layered, active foreign policy, which has a clear goal, a strategic central goal, and that is to enter the EU and everything else that can improve the work and life of our citizens in our country, and certainly cannot be the future of Serbia in the 21st century to make enemies of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40456	Mrs. Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40457	You know what, don't replace the thesis. I haven't said for a moment that Turkey is an enemy. Oh, God, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Among other things, I quoted a minister from your government, the government where you sit, who says we've been a part of this area for 500 years and what they say is the Ottoman Empire, and now we're going to rebuild it. So 500 years we've had that period in history. So your foreign minister said it wasn't a good message for the region, and I didn't say Turkey was an enemy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40458	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40459	Thank you. I'm sorry I didn't sign up in time. I was counting on you to give the word as usual, by the size of the parliamentary groups. I think the subject I'm going to...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40460	I'm sorry, it's the size of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40461	No, I checked in late. I apologize for delivering your application later, so I'm not on the list. It's not you, thank you. It's my fault. The theme I'm going to talk about fits in with what the others are talking about. As you can see, the topic of poor privatisation and the subject of the judiciary appears mainly before the reform, and it seems even more after the reform. I'm talking about an infamous record of a 10-year trial where it's impossible to execute a court ruling for 40 damaged former Koka-Kole workers from a kiM plant in Lipian who cannot exercise their human rights to pay them compensation for illegally resigning. This question I'm asking this high house is not a question that first appears here. They spoke absolutely to all the titles that are competent, directly and indirectly, so that they could solve their problem – the cabinet of the president of this country, Mr Boris Tadic, National Assembly President, Ministry of Justice, Supreme Cassation Court, Prime Minister, Constitutional Court, "President of the largest opposition party, Nikolic Tomislav" (this quote), President of the First Municipal Court, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic. It is said that their problem in front of the Fourth Municipal Court in New Belgrade, which is headed against the defendant "Koka-Kole" and in which the company's workers were damaged (ex-workers, meaning they were fired), about the fate of 40 people, means 40 families, who founded a working relationship indefinitely, and then 31.7.2000, under the pretext of bombing and war, were illegally fired. The 2005 municipal court's decision in Libya, which became executive in the tenth month of 2006, cannot possibly be executed. Since the day that decision became executive, it has been three years, six months and 12 days, they write, realizing that it is a great disgrace to our judiciary. They say they can't understand the court's inability to execute an executive decision, get the workers back to work...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40462	Time. Can I help you? Who wants a word? Nobody. You'll get an answer. Apparently no one can answer you right now. I can't give you my word again. Here, I'm consulting. You actually have the right to a new five minutes in case you comment on the answer. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: Commenting silence. Silence is the answer, administrative silence. We really can't comment on the silence, I'm sorry. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40463	This morning, I announced what would be the subject of these questions today, and, of course, we got some major paperwork from the citizens. As far as it's true, as far as it's not true, how does an MP know that? You know what it's like with MPs. They call these down from security, they say, is that you and that one? I did. He's looking for you and he's got some paperwork. We take that file and look at it. If we didn't do it, then they say, "You radicals don't communicate with the citizens, so tomorrow in the paper, it can turn out anything." But it doesn't matter, it's about the next one. A group of employees of the company Montaža, here from Kosovo Street, provided documentation showing that they have a major problem with'manage' and owners after privatising the company, which is some Miomir Pajkovic, former director. He, man, boasted. Where did you get the money? He says, "Give me some friends." And he's from there, you know, from Saric's neighborhood. What do they say? Yes, Novi Sad, there's Traveler, there's a lot of stuff. Are you listening to me, Mr. Djelic, or are you not listening to me? I listen to you, and you don't listen to me when I talk. You're just smiling. Just smile, but listen. What's the matter with these people? The problem with these people is that they must have about 200 in this company, which they can't do, no one will hire them, and that firm after the privatisation in 2002... Otherwise, your Prime Minister Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic did a privatisation assessment, so it was of great value, so it was reduced, then reduced, and then this one bought with the help of a friend. He's moving jobs from Russia, across Montenegro, here, so here's a file for Cvijic, so there's some paperwork for some company... Now you know how this came. You've been clapped by Europe to break your tongue while you read the name of the company. )......................................................................................................... "Tvibo," as it was called, I don't know either, so then "Montaža Montenegro", Podgorica, they bought "Termovent", it's in Andrijevica, now it's called "MP Climate Product", etc. Two questions are very important. I'll give you later, Mr. Djelic, this file, to remind Mirko Cvetkovic because there's his assessment. They say he's involved, too. I don't know. I didn't conduct an investigation. If I'd conducted an investigation, then I'd have said it was true. They say it's a pretty organized crime. And with regard to the depriving of the basic rights of employees...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40464	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40465	I'm just getting started, Mrs. Djukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40466	I'm sorry. Do any of the members of the government want to respond? Nobody. The People's MP Đura Muchenski has a word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40467	My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Djelic. It concerns the economic situation and the consequences of the global financial, global economic crisis, which was the number one issue last year and this year, and we are all witnesses of this because we suffer the consequences daily. There must be concern with all of us about the news that is in public these days, what is happening right now in Greece as a result of these negative developments on the world economic scene. There's a lot of noise in the public, I've heard about Plan 2020, what they call it, and I've heard comments that identify it with a plan to get out of the economic crisis that our government brought last year, and it's asking a question -- is that about it? I have information that he didn't. To explain more, both to Serbia's citizens, what Plan 2020 contains, what the EU's plan is prepared or prepared in 2020, and whether the Serbian government is working on it. What does this plan contain or what is planned to do about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40468	Mr. Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40469	Thank you. The current situation in the capital market is quite dramatic because our neighbouring and friendly Greece has experienced several reductions in its own assessment, in the last few days it has also lost the level of the investment area, i.e. It has come down to the level of ratings and evaluations that are far below what other eurozone members have (i.e. to remind, it is a group of 15 countries). First of all, I want to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I am confident that all our citizens, want these economic and financial difficulties of Greece to be overcome as soon as possible. It's in the interest of our country. Because Greece is among the first three investors in our country, with 120 investments that are in a large number of sectors and are all over our territory, and because Greek banks have some 16% in our banking market. It is also important for our economic activity, for jobs in Serbia, that the difficulties that Greece currently has be resolved as soon as possible. After a few days of interest that Greece had to pay in the medium term, it reached 12-13% at the annual level in euros. That shows how much there's been a disturbance in the capital market. At the same time, however, I find that, following a lot of difficulties in agreeing on such a package with the IMF, the EU will provide more than 30 billion euros in funding for Greece in months to be able to provide both liquidity and the insolvency of the financial system at any moment. This also shows how important European solidarity is and how important it is for countries like Serbia to join the EU as soon as possible. On the other hand, it should be said that Greece's current difficulties are generally not suitable for the EU's enlargement atmosphere. It's just like that. When a member of the EU has had such difficulties for 30 years, Greece, which has been a member since the start of the eurozone, it is not good for us or for the entire Western Balkans. And for this reason, and for these economic, financial and business reasons, it is very important, and as we know, that Greece is one of our strongest allies within the EU, that the situation is resuscitated and stabilised as soon as possible. On your second question, on the 2020 strategy, I want to say first that since I had such issues by citizens and the media, it does not mean that our European integration is now shifted to some future. Absolutely not. Simply, in March of this year, the European Commission, after more than two years of reconciliation, revealed what is the successor of the so-called ". The Lisbon agendas, which covered the EU's strategic objectives over the past decade. The EU's 2020 strategy covers the EU's strategic objectives this decade. Learning perhaps on certain shortcomings of the previous strategy, where there were many texts, many figures and figures, which were difficult to track, and even more to explain to EU citizens, this time went to three key domains, which is, firstly, to seek intelligent growth, and hence the EU's goal of moving from current 1.9% of GDP by 2020 to 3% of the separation for science and technology in terms of GDP participation. To remind you, our country and our budget have predicted 0.3% of GDP this year, but thanks to what has been voted in this esteemed home last month and what you will adopt, I hope, as it is included in the agenda of the next session, an agreement with the European Investment Bank to invest in our scientific technology infrastructure, worth 200m euros, we will move on that path and have more significant resources. On the other hand, we have as another block what is called sustainable growth, which primarily represents infrastructure and ecology, as well as energy. The EU's goal is to produce at least 20% of its own energy from renewable energy sources by 2020, to improve energy efficiency by 20% and to make SO2 emissions in the atmosphere 20% lower than they were in 1990. As far as our country is concerned, energy efficiency must be one of the key objectives of our country. In fact, there is also insufficient talk of this in both our public and government, probably, and in this esteemed home, our energy efficiency today is five times worse than the EU's energy efficiency. In other words, we spend five times as much energy to produce the same amount of gross domestic product. This is a situation that in no way can be acceptable and it must be one of the strategic directions of our country in the years to come. The third part of this EU programme is inclusive growth, i.e. growth that leaves no social category outside of well-being and improvement. In particular, this means that there is also a problem in the EU of certain categories that leave school too early and not enough, it may surprise our citizens, people who have a college degree within the EU. In our case, these questions are also asked, and there is also the aim of reducing the difference in society, i.e. to reduce the percentage of those who have salaries and receipts 60% less than the average. Thus, I am now finishing the answers to your questions, to the initiative of the President of the Republic, we also discussed this with Mr Frank Frattini yesterday during his official visit and we have his support, and I can tell you that we also have the support of the Spanish presidency that on 2 June in Sarajevo, at the EU Western Balkans Summit, the integrated part of the discussion is this very perspective. In other words, the scope of the meeting should not only be that it took place and that another beautiful common picture was taken, but we must also talk about the specific perspective of the Western Balkans. This means that, in these domains that I have now talked about, Serbia and other Western Balkan countries will be invited to propose projects, and no one will be surprised that at the same time we expect the EU to receive more generous support from the European budget on the basis of these projects that are of common interest. There, in a few words. I think the first version of the plan for Serbia for this decade will be revealed in May. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40470	Thank you. Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40471	Dear President, since Mr. Vice President Djelic always takes note when the opposition asks questions, I will have to speak much faster than I normally say, and I doubt it, since he answers only the questions of the ruling coalition's representatives, that he gets them in advance, because he knows the answer to their questions, and he doesn't know our questions. I will be very clear, explicit and I will ask what people are interested in – why, Mr. Djelic, as a member of the government, voted to increase the phone subscription to 100% of Serbian citizens? Inflation is 6% and so in order, I don't speak economic parameters. Who did you load into the 82m-euro bag? To the one you need to sell Telecom now and make that profit at the start. So, I'm asking you as an economist, honestly, Mr. Djelic -- what is it to relax the market when the price increases by something 100%? What are the economic reasons for that? What are the economic reasons for the phone subscription to collect, we remember in 2008 in autumn, 63%, and now suddenly 100 percent? In whose interest is this government decision you've made? Believe me, in the interest of Serbian citizens, it's not safe. Mrs. Matic, why are you, as Minister, avoiding the answers regarding the sale of Telecom? You sent me an answer at 3:55 today that the government brought it, that you weren't in charge, but was in charge of the Ministry of Finance. And you, Mr. Djelic, if you won't answer me, you must answer to the public and the citizens of Serbia. Why don't you answer the questions that your co-worker, from your party today, has asked you? Why don't you answer the question asked by the Belgrade University Rector, the Dean of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and 400 other people to be trusted? Why are you selling Telecom? In whose interest is that? How are you going to damage the citizens of Serbia who invested in the infrastructure, in the PTT network, peopleally speaking, in telephone bandits and cables? That's what the people paid for. Who has the right to take it from them without compensation and to sell? Who's right about that? Who gave you the right? Are you the owners of that? Do you know how many peasants sold a cow and a calf to bring in a phone? For example, in 1969, even though I live in the center of the city of Cacca, my father paid 2,000 dollars for the introduction of a phone. Who authorized you to have that money? Why didn't you first tell the citizens who made the PTT network, introduce the phones, share the shares, and let them trade, and not that you with the people's money, what they've been creating for decades, this is how you trade? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40472	Mr. Djelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40473	It's an unequivocal enterprise of first-class importance. What's true is that we need to approach its own transformation in a very responsible way. We remember the way we succeeded in the beginning of the previous decade, taking advantage of the situation of the then-owned owner of that 40% capital, at the time of the Italian firm Pireli, to buy under very favourable conditions and get a majority state package within "Telecoma Serbia" for our country. We see that in recent years, under various governments, in the very great stability of the management itself, we have had developments in neighbouring markets and the capacity of "Telecoma of Serbia", I here congratulate not only on employees, but on all those who work with them, on the opportunities they have shown in their capacity to deal with quite serious international competition, first in mobile phone, and then, ever since the monopoly was abolished, at the end of last year, and on fixed telephony, so there is no risk today of replacing any element of the state monopoly with private monopoly. Thus, Telecom Serbia is entering a new stage of its own development, where it will need additional investments and additional strategic partners to continue the expansion in the region, and that, at the same time, it can and must be our goal at this moment, to continue to make important decisions on the future of Telekom Srbija in Belgrade. Telecommunications is a global game. Telecommunications is similar to some other industries, where it is very important to assess the optimality of a given moment and the optimality of the ownership structure of a particular company. The government of the Republic of Serbia is, looking at the situation on our market, i.e. how much growth in the past few years, how much growth can be expected in various segments, what investments are necessary to develop Telecom Serbia in new markets, estimated that the right moment to enter, through an open international procedure, in finding a strategic partner for 40% of the capital of Telecom Serbia. It's a decision that will be in the interest of our citizens. It is a decision that will ensure that both engineers and technicians and employees of Telecom look to the future with even more confidence in the way that they have, I am confident, through finding a strategic partner and support for a further campaign and further strengthening their positions in the region. In this way we believe that this decision is both in the interests of employees and in the interests of all our citizens. To the question of tariffs, I'll let my colleague answer, just to say that, of course, when we give the percentages, we should give the sums in the dinars, and for all those who are well-intentioned and without any ideologies looking at the situation, we know long ago that we have a certain problem in the system of tariffs in our structure, where we saw that further development was carried by mobile telephony and some other services and that we had, of all the countries in the environment, convincingly the lowest tariffs for fixed telephony subscription. That's what the result was. I can tell you that seven or eight years ago that question was asked and that it was never solved. The government has decided to provide a more rational form of tariffs at this point. Simply, in our system, and that should be specified, because you said now that, as you say, the people would understand well – that decision was not made by the government, but proposed by regulatory agencies that watch and monitor, and that was something that was the decision of the regulatory agency. I think that it is rational and that it harmonizes and enables our "Telecom Serbia" to come in good shape to this very important moment which is a strategic takeover, i.e. Strategic partnership. One more thing I would like to say to Telecom Serbia, which is to see that the actions of Telecom Serbia are of great importance in our southern province in recent days. Our citizens living in Kosovo, we see that in the last days of Telecom Serbia, and here I congratulate those who are doing so, have succeeded despite these difficulties, in establishing a signal again. This means a lot to all of us, especially our citizens in Kosovo. The petition of Belgrade University and Professor ETF means, of course, that we take it very seriously, and that means that, like all well-organised countries, at the moment of privatisation, a number of conditions must also be that certain strategic directions and priorities of our country are preserved within that strategic partnership. In other words, to preserve the presence in our southern province and also when we talk about the academic network, when we talk about other elements of infrastructure, that we have in contractual relations the certainty that this will develop in the interests of our country and its citizens. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40474	Thank you. Mr Markicevic, you are entitled to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40475	Thank you very much, Madam President. At first, Mr. Vice President, thank you for answering and giving me a chance to speak for a few more minutes. Let me tell you, folks, you're very skilled, European, trying to avoid an answer. If you say here, in front of this audience and the citizens of Serbia who are watching this, that they are in the interest of increasing their subscription 100%, then let's increase it 500 percent, if that's in their interest. What if we didn't increase 1,000 percent, so people wouldn't bother? And you don't bother to increase it every six months. How is it in the interest of me as a phone service user to increase the subscription double? Mr. Djelic, now the flow of information is great. What you're doing here now, that's what the Croats did. They picked up a phone subscription two months before the sale, and you know who - "Dec Telecom." But the Danes of Dutchland, the Croats know why they're doing it, Mr. Minister. They owe something to that country and that company. And what do we owe them? What do these people owe them more? I don't think any of them are being built in here, Mr. Minister. I doubt it, as a man I doubt it, believe me. If I'm supposed to be talking to you like an economist? ) there are 155m euros in profits, if it helps 'Partizan', if it helps many sports clubs, all humanitarian, and it pays in the budget I don't know how much, we're going to sell it now. Now there's Radyukko, finally, two days ago... And let me tell you, Mr. Minister, I believe in that Serb from Knin. He's an honest man. Someone won't let him talk. That's my impression. Do you think a peasant with five cows sells the best cow? No, she's being guarded, she's a foster mom, she's guarding the family, she's feeding the kids. It's fair to say, that here you propose budget rebalancing, that we sit, because the big crisis is still going on in Serbia, that we sit down as people, it doesn't matter who the opposition is and who the government is, and see what with this budget can be done, and not that the family jewels, the gold we have, the silver Escheetian sale, the government would be another year. So what if it lasts a year? You'll get elections once, so maybe somebody else will come. What's he gonna do? Maybe you'll win again. What are you guys gonna do? Why is this for sale? This doesn't explain anything. I would accept that you tell me – there is a political interest; it is not for you, Markicevic, you are small to know. No problem. Say so, and we'll be pleased. If he says rector, if he says dean, if he says 400 people, intellectuals, and now you explain round and round to corners here, and the numbers show something. Secondly, it's been said that Telecom doesn't have enough funds to invest, to expand the network, and I don't know how many thousands of those double phones. I think the minister said that on a show the other night. I've been following the news ever since. I'm no expert on this, but I can read something, like most people. Ten days ago, here's a colleague from Vojvodina who asked Mr. Minister's contracted question, he has information that 200 million dinars of Telecom, thank God, invests in Zrenjanin, in the Zrenjanin municipality. That's two million euros per the latest course, that's not small. What's our guarantee, when we sell that "Dec Telecom" to, it's obvious who you're going to... What they care about, they inherit what the people have been making for 50-60 years, both the states and the people and the citizens. What's their interest in them investing further? First thing they'll do, they'll fire 5,000 workers. Why didn't you tell me what to do with these people? What about CTU, the Post Office? What someone said the other day here, our country used to, like many now in the world, have a minister of mail. So, the Railways and the Post Office, whether they're working in income, whether they're losing or not, are the markings and symbols of a state. With this Telecom sale, I doubt we'll destroy the Post Office without talking about this many workers. I just don't get it, these coming unions, I don't know if they're coming to the ruling parties, but opposition parties are coming and asking for help. I'm telling you openly -- gentlemen, comrades, brothers unions from Telecom, if you don't do something yourself, we can't help you. So, go, fight, we'll help you as far as we can. I hope these, too, are now the next committee of Mr. Ministers to help these people listen to this, what they're going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40476	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40477	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I first have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister, since I suppose he should know that – where is Minister Dulic? That's what I'm asking you for the next reason. I asked Mr. Dulic a question on April 14th this year. In the meantime, he came to this congregation, brought in those ecological boxes, but he did not send an answer to the asked question. And that question is very important. Now I'm going to tell you why. The Law on Planning and Construction, adopted in this assembly on a proposal from the government, a proposal which was the 16th version of the law, has contributed, according to the President of the Construction Workers' Union, to keep 50,000 construction workers out of work in the last eight months, 20,000 not to receive a salary and 10,000 receive a minimum. On the same day I asked him a question, the minister gave an interview with the newspaper and said it would not change, under any conditions, the Law on Planning and Construction. And this Law on Planning and Construction is inconclusive, and because of what Mr. Dulic said himself, of the 26 necessary sublaws, we have brought 13. I understand that he, as a doctor, does not need to know that the law must be fully respected, but as a minister, he must know that the law cannot be partially respected, because it is then a violation of the law. Mr. Dulic has some other things to tell us. He announced the phasing-out rule. I'd like you to tell me if you know anything about it. The man said that the phasing-out rule was brought in and sent it to the local self-government and that after obtaining the location permit it could be started by digging. I have to ask you this question, because every representative of the local self-government in charge of this area will say that that rule has not been passed and has not been delivered to local self-government. Anyone who issues a local license in this country breaks the law. The law is inconclusive, which is why construction is in Belgrade. He called these people unemployed, and these people processed 2,000 local permits. But they can't do anything, because the law isn't enforceable, because sublegal acts haven't been passed. His ministry is unsupervised. Please tell me, since I see that you are in charge here today to hear from all of us questions and give answers as much as you can and to give a part of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40478	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40479	You will be answered in accordance with Article 201(1). I'll talk to my colleague Dulic to give you an answer. There were words about it both at the government and at other forums and, since it is not my portfolio, I will quote my colleague and say that a large number of local self-governments actually carry out this law uninterruptedly and that it is true that until recently there was a serious problem in Belgrade. There have been several meetings, meetings, clarifications, and, according to what the minister in charge has told us, the situation in Belgrade should be unblocked very quickly. It is a problem, not to lie, but, on the other hand, when the law is criticised, some of its positives should be seen. I think he's giving one right path and he respects reality. What you just said surprises me, because apparently one number of local self-government has no problems. It was said, for example, of the New Sad, that it was absolutely teamed up and that it was able to fully implement this law. So I'll have my colleague answer if that's not the case. And to say that this problem is being solved in Belgrade. We also saw that the Prime Minister, with counterpart Dulic and other ministers, had several meetings with the entire construction operation. We also saw a number of initiatives, such as the initiative to build a large number of apartments on the Vozdovac. It is not the only one, there are others, because it is clear and well known that construction is one of those branches that can run more sectors and it can and must be one of the answers to this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40480	Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40481	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I know it's not your area, but I have to ask someone, because the minister in charge of this area doesn't answer questions. Only that the answer when the cameras are somewhere on some mountainous planet where it deals with environmental science, and then it's about construction. And then, given that a man by profession is a doctor (of course, I respect it), he gives false information. False information is that in Novi Sad it works because local self-government is capable and the director of Urbanism is capable. The director of Urbanism has been in that position since 1996. Look at how much the authorities were changing during that time. And then, of course, one minister can call him and tell him - give him the location permits, wait, I'll get these rules. Dulic said – you can start digging as soon as you get a location permit. That's not true. It's not enough location permit to start digging. He doesn't know what he's talking about. And, among other things, he's telling a lie. Mr. Djelic, I have to give you information – 92% of the construction in Belgrade has fallen since the law was passed. Only those who make houses and who, according to the old law, make demands are built. And Mr. Dulic still says he won't change the law. I wanted to give you one more piece of information. In the second degree, only when it comes to Katastar, there are several thousand complaints. It's a competent ministry, it's not being solved. Belgrade's employees at the Department of Urbanism have come up with an urban plan within two and a half months. It took Mr. Dulic six months for his ministry to approve him. So, I really don't mean to sound rude, but this is about the man who runs that ministry being no expert on the area. Sixteen versions of the law. And you know how the law is written? He went and asked everyone a few questions, some expert asked for this, some expert for it, packed it up, and made an inconclusive law. He'd be much more appreciated by everyone if a man realized that the building was standing. The construction industry is going down. The reason is a law that is inconclusive. I believe he has no bad intentions, but if his perseverance goes into stubbornness, then that's a big problem for the citizens of this country. He, I say, called these people unemployed. These people have been doing their job for years. Please try to explain to Mr. Dulic that the law cannot be implemented in part. The law is either fully implemented or not implemented. If it is not fully implemented, and through pressure, local permits are issued, it is a violation of the law. The people who run urbanism in the city of Belgrade are the people who belong to your party, but I have a lot of respect for them because they want to work in accordance with the law, because they won't be asked tomorrow -- how could you issue a local permit when they're not met with the legal requirements, huh? Please, together with the Prime Minister and other colleagues from the Ministry, put pressure on Mr. Dulic and that this law be amended. I'm undermining, Mr. Djelic, how many people are out of work, how many people receive a minimum, and that's something that's terribly slowing down this country, which is costing this country a lot, and I'm afraid, because of one man's stubbornness, the consequences will be much greater. So I ask you once again, both you and Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, to ask Mr Dulic to answer the questions. Here, there's Mr. Skundric. He, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, always gave answers to MPs' questions and always came here even though he assumed he wouldn't be very comfortable with him, but the man was behind what he was doing. Mr. Dulic comes and brings us the ecological boxes, but he won't give us an answer to the questions that this country has brought to a very difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40482	National MP Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40483	Thank you, Madam President. I needed Mr. Dulic too because I wanted to ask him questions. I will ask this question, however, to answer in writing, but I will ask Mr Djelic and Mr Skundric to also comment on something. The Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning has been submitted a request for the issue of an integral authorisation for the storage of hazardous waste at the site of cadastrian plot 7022/4, a catastrian municipality of Valjevo. It is, of course, the location used by the company Gorenje, which in Valjevo has a factory that produces white technique. This location is located a mile from the strict center of the city. It is located in the waterway of the Kolubara River, 50 metres from that water stream, between the four largest Valjevo settlements, three kindergartens, one elementary school and literally behind the courtyard of the secondary school. A financial report for 2007/2008 would be submitted to the company Kemis, which requested the authorisation and which, according to the record, has one employee. One year, for 2009, there were no data, in a hall of 120 m2 made a warehouse of hazardous waste. What's "chemis" and "burning" about? This Valjev company is "Kemis" d.o.o. Valjevo, but "Kemis" is actually a Slovenian company made 20 years ago, and since 2004, it has been owned by "Gornja". In a request for a permit, Kemis states that he would, among other things, collect, transport and store hazardous waste. It wouldn't be a big problem if the ministry gentlemen hadn't said it was quite a logical request, since the company "burning" is involved in the production of white technique. It's simple, it's got nothing to do with the storage of dangerous waste, but let's move on. All of this will be done by hand or by appropriate pumps - I read to you what is in the request. My question for Mr. Dulic and the Ministry is – is Valjevo, which is one of the big green spots in Serbia, becoming the point where the waste dump is dangerous? Does the Ministry seriously consider the demands, since this request I have ahead of me has so many misunderstandings? The first is one employee and 120 square meters, and that's going to be a warehouse that's going to store 50 tons of waste at the same time? Thirdly, whether someone will come to Valjevo to address the city's executives, because the deputy mayor says, "I wouldn't accept it as a citizen," but that leaves room for him to accept it as a politician. A big question for Mr. Dulic and Mr. Skundric -- is it possible that the Serbian government will come to this country and say that it will give permission to give Serbia environmental waste and make a country that will not be able to come out of this crisis for thousands of years?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40484	Here you go, Mr. Skundrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40485	I think the first part of the question you've asked requires really one responsible relationship and checking all this data. I agree, as someone who understands this area, that inaccessible storage of dangerous substances, no matter what dangerous matter it is, is in an environment where citizens live, especially in the part of the water streams that can be used as drinking water. I'm really not listed in this information you've been talking about. I think the D.O.D. needs to run a background check. If he needs my help, I'll be at my disposal, let's see and intervene in that direction. On the other issue, I am absolutely agreed that we should not accept those forms of investment in our country that could endanger the environment in our country, but I think there is often a misreading of some projects that do not fundamentally question environmental protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40486	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40487	I see Mr. Vice President has no intention of answering, so now I'm just going to comment on what Mr. Skundric said. Thank you very much, this is a great support for the citizens of Serbia and me as an environmentalist representing the citizens of Valjev. I have here a notice of filing for the issue of an integral permit. They will deal with: machine emulsions and solutions, separator oils (oil), packaging containing residues of dangerous substances or contaminated hazardous substances, filtering materials, including oil filters, which are not otherwise specified, wiper cloths and protective clothing contaminated by hazardous substances, components containing live, antifreeze containing dangerous substances... It further lists exactly 32 of these items. Otherwise, for all of this they give in this memo which they sent to the Ministry further descriptions of how it will work. They said they'd work manually, switch from the original packaging they'd collect, while collecting and transporting it to the warehouse, by hand or by appropriate pumps, depending on the type and characteristics of the waste. And now watch what equipment it is (this equipment, otherwise, has to guarantee the citizens of Valjev that it will not endanger their health) – metal or plastic tanks from a meter to 50 cubic metres, containers of cubic, metal or plastic barrel of 50 and 200 litres, canisters... Please, are these the modern ways of storing and storing hazardous waste? By the way, this reminds me terribly of the affair we had in Gornji Milanovac with Helios. That's why I'm talking this way, because I think it's better to prevent it than treat it. And the proof that I am not falsely upset, but that I am really upset with what is happening is that the minister made several really large excises in Serbia, while saying, I am using his statement, that it is quite logical that the Slovenian firm "Gorenje" owns a factory for the production of white technique in Valjevo and it is quite logical to request that it continue to be stored in the 120m-square-square-square-square hall. Next, what else is very interesting? Mr. Dulic presented us here two years ago a set of environmental laws, where there was also the Waste Management Act. I have indeed welcomed this law and these laws have been passed by the votes of the DSS MPs, but the way it behaves is not in line with the laws it has passed. Since he passed those laws, we have had the case of Krnjev, which has not been resolved today, which is very complicated and which will enter into the annals of environmental problems in Serbia. I'm afraid Valjevo won't be the next case. Then, we have the Password, where no dangerous matter is touched even though it has been announced several times, and only now is it said that it should be done by a private company that took to do these jobs. And of course, in the Water Act, we have, in Article 117, the introduction of nukes to a small door. You should have told us something about it, sir. I do not believe the laws are read in the government, that ministers such as yourself or as Minister Dulic did not read it. If this is such a safe way of disposal of waste, dangerous matter, why isn't it done in Subotica, for example? Why is it working where, thanks to environmentalists, this city is really clean, if we just exclude the problems and consequences that we had after the bombing, because Valjevo is one of the cities that suffered and how? So we've barely experienced cleaning up the city, cleaning up the Krusik and having it all worked out (we had the information that was faked, but we did it) and today it's really not clear to me why it's important for the town of Valjevo to turn into a dump.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40488	Minister Skundric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40489	I think all of us in the government, and I can say for myself, will give maximum support to the city of Valjev to preserve a healthy environment and environment, indeed. I think the local self-government in the city will react in the same way as you, if all of this is true, and will have support in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Probably, if some of these allegations are absolutely correct, there are certain misunderstandings in granting consent to a white-tech factory to deal with the disposal of any substance, especially hazardous matter. So they can't get that right and that possibility. We launched in the government of the Republic of Serbia, in the ministry where I am, an initiative to turn all municipal waste into pure energy, according to technologies that don't pollute the environment. Among other things, we talked to the local government in Valjevo to do the maximum on this plan, but we didn't say that they would dump even municipal waste on the territory of the municipality of Valjevo, but we were talking about a regional dump far from Valjevo. I just want to draw attention to the fact that we are really going to do the part that applies to our intelligence in a responsible way, with the belief that local self-government, where, as far as I know, the representatives of your party will react in the same way as you did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40490	Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40491	I thank you, Mr. Minister, if you really respect everything you've said here. I believe the citizens of Valev are listening, and I'm listening to you, so I'll be happy to remind you when the time comes. But the big problem is that, according to the Waste Management Act, Article 20 paragraph 1 of point 5, only the city of Valjev and local self-government is asked for an opinion. Their opinion is not binding on anyone. The opinion and what the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning brings is what's important, and they give permission to work on hazardous waste. That's what I'm afraid of, quoting their statements again and quoting and what my colleague Maras said, that Mr. Dulic does not come to this assembly when problems related to environmentalism are being discussed. We've asked here several times on behalf of the Committee for him to appear and discuss the Trnev. He called us ignorants because MPs can't discuss such important things. Sir, inform the government and inform Mr. Dulic that there are professional people here, and Mr. Dulic is orthopedic, so just like us amateurs in the area, he may know something, and maybe he doesn't. So, what's important is to say, it's not just a matter of local self-government bringing that opinion, because in local self-government, there's politicians sitting there, and I've been quoting what the deputy mayor says: "I'm not going to let" but nowhere says, "I'm not going to let" and that would mean that I, as a citizen, am also a politician, which should be the same, but, meaning, I'm leaving the possibility that I as a politician do something that is required of me. So in advance, I ask your consent to come before the citizens of Valjev, since apparently Mr. Dulic will not take advantage of such an opportunity, and to discuss the subject. No one escapes the very important things that are passed by law, that these laws should be regulated by an area such as waste management, and that somewhere in some part of Serbia's territory, there is an opportunity to store such waste. But to store it in water streams, within a mile of the city center, between four settlements, it really doesn't make sense. And that same thing happened in Krnjevo, 300 meters from the school is that warehouse. I thank you for having the understanding to listen, to be informed, and I really ask you to inform the government. Because the problem in Valjevo will not be the same as in Krnjevo, there are 100,000 inhabitants in Valjevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40492	Thank you. Mr. Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40493	Ladies and gentlemen, I have two specific questions for Mr. Vice-President of the Government and I would ask you in advance to answer me specifically and clearly. We, as well as a large part of the public, see colleagues from other opposition parties, are not satisfied with the answer to one specific question – why is "Telecom" being sold? Please answer my question because, according to Ms. Aleksandra Smiljanic, who was the Minister of Telecommunications in the last government, Telecom has a billion-euro income annually, she has a profit of 150m euros a year, and she argues (and should be trusted because she worked in US and Japanese companies, there are seven patents registered in America and Europe) that the profits of Telecom will rise in the following year due to price increases. I also don't understand, and I wonder if you share your prime minister's opinion that Telecom is being sold because private property is more efficient than state property. That's one phrase, you know? It's a phrase after what happened in America in 2008, more specifically after the acquisition by the Ministry of Finance and the Fed, worth $20 billion, the Sitigroup Bank. You also know that Morgan Chase has taken over, also with state money, another known firm, the mortgage giants "Fredi Mac" and "Fani May" are also taken over by the state, so we see that in the West and in that world where you're trying to reverse the process of what's going on with Telecom. Since you worked in Russia, I'm sure you know what happened to the Russian state, what progress has been made since the practical nationalization of Yukos, so again the opposite process of it. So I don't see any justification for the fact that private property at this point is what's more favourable to Serbia. The second question for you is – if you have already signed with the IMF and other international institutions in fact freezing and firing workers in the state sector, it is possible to employ 350 people over the next two years in the Serbian government only because of so-called. European integration? I mean, that's illogical. Please explain it to me specifically. That's what your co-ordinator for European funds, Mr. Ognje Miric, said, if I'm not mistaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40494	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40495	You mentioned Russia. Russia has determined what is strategic, it's oil and gas. I remind you that telecommunications in Russia is privately owned. Serbia has determined that at this moment the EPS is of strategic importance. Investments are needed, but Serbia does not open EPS's capital, nor will it open it. Which does not mean that EPS does not have partners to build thermal power plants, partners to build additional plants for renewable energy sources and, as I said in the previous exhibition, we must always see where the interests of our citizens and our state are and how it is best expressed and realised at some point. Is there always private property superior everywhere? The answer is no. There must be conditions for this private property to be superior. Let's look at the question that is not asked, nor should it be asked in our country, which is the privatisation of the railway. Our country is not at all ready to privatise the railways. Certain countries, such as the UK, which privatised the railways in the 1980s, saw that it was an incorrect direction and held the railway. We saw a number of countries that went too far in privatization in the domain of electricity and there was a re-statement. Serbia closely monitors all these experiences, Serbia recognises where its strategic interests are and therefore we clearly say – for strategic reasons there is no privatisation of the EPS, for strategic reasons and because it is not prepared at all to open any capital of the ZTP, which does not mean that further steps of the reform will not lead to an opening for competition in certain segments of the company. As for Telecom, in 2002, if I remember correctly, or in 2001 (I think it was 2002), after privatisation, we saw that a strategic partner, at the time Telecom Italy, owned by Pierrelia, which may be surprising, but that was the evolution of that Italian capital and capitalism... There were no investments, there were certain problems in carrying out previous transactions that came to the surface and we noticed it was in Serbia's national interest to buy the package that was held by an Italian partner at the time. And it's done. Now, eight years later, through certain shifts of "Telecoma Serbia", and for this the most deserved ones working in "Telecom Serbia", through a step into Republika Srpska's market, and this was a very important moment for both "Telecom Serbia" and our country, including Montenegro, we have a situation that "Telecom Serbia" has come to some market development in both fixed telephony and mobile telephony, there has been developments in the domain and cable television and the internet. And now, looking at what is happening in the region, the strategy of other actors in our region, all of these elements together, now that there are no monopolies in either mobile or fixed, or in cable television, or on the internet, now that integration is largely determined at that managerial level not only between Serbia, but also in the BiH-Montenegro market, is coming time for a new moment and for further development of "Telecoma Serbia". Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia has estimated that the right moment is also in the interest of citizens, who will receive actions from "Telecoma of Serbia", as indicated in a law adopted in the previous government. The fact is that Serbia will also retain a package of actions that will be there for security reasons, the preservation of strategic decisions I spoke about earlier, which is to preserve services for our citizens at KIM, on the one hand, and on the other hand, certain very important security and other aspects that exist in Telecom Serbia. I just want to tell the citizens who listen to us today and the esteemed MPs that this isn't any kind of privatisation. This is a specific transaction, where we must work to preserve our country's specific interests, but it is certain that at this moment, finding a strategic partner for 40% of the capital is good for our citizens, as well as for employees of Telecom Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40496	Thank you. Mr. Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40497	First of all, I have to notice that the minister has not answered the second question as to the employment of the 350 people. You probably missed it. (Božidar Djelic, from the post: I will answer later. I'm glad we share the same opinions in part, but you have denied the Prime Minister by your reply. Because, just now, Prime Minister Cvetkovic said in a statement to the newspaper "Pres" 3.4.2010 that the EPS would be joined directly. I can tell you exactly and bring you a clip from those newspapers. As far as Russia is concerned, you say that privatisation is not only in the energy sector. But you must know, you worked there, that the two largest banks in Russia are state-owned, you know that, and that the Russian authorities are not thinking of selling them to foreigners or privatizing them, and as far as I know, banks and energy companies are completely two different areas. Also, you didn't answer for Mrs. Smiljanic. Please, she wasn't even close to us, she was in your government, and she made a statement, she was even sharper than we are, where she says: "Telecom" sells irresponsible policies that don't take care of the state and citizens. That's her statement, not ours. Of course, we agree with that, but I'm asking you to answer that, too. As far as Kosovo is concerned, we support you in this, these are beautiful wishes, but you know that there is Eulex and that he decides what will happen to telecommunications in our southern province. On the other hand, I ask you to answer the next question, as far as the government's stake is concerned - how is it possible that Deutsche Telekom is buying our businesses? "Dec Telecom" is state-owned. The same is said by Mrs Smiljanić – both in Norway and Sweden, etc. Please just give me specific answers. And as for public enterprises, I'm going to say just one more example, which shows that we still need to look a little bit at the sales of Telecom, not black and white, but see some other opinions. For example, Mr. Gary Becker, who is the winner of the 1992 Nobel Prize for Economics, is well known for claiming that public enterprises are often more useful to the state, citizens and their interest than private ones, because they essentially subsidize employees and suppliers. And keep that in mind, because it's a big company. This is, in fact, the opinion of a Nobel laureate who's close to Chicago school, you can't say that's populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40498	Mr. Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40499	I'm going to talk about Telecom, so let me answer this second question of yours, i.e. The one that was the first. You know how, when we talk, for example. about what other countries are doing and when we talk about Russia, it seems to me that sometimes some old pictures are still being painted on what's really going on. Let us take an example of Russia in the domain of science. When we talk about Russia taking over a number of enterprises, you're right. She recognized the strategic interest and she did it. On the other hand, one of the key scientific projects announced by President Medvedev is the formation of a Russian Silicon Valley near Moscow. Who was given this project for realisation? Mr. Wesselberg, one of the richest people in Russia, who has been tasked with doing what is considered a strategic state interest. So we see that Russia today, in the 21st century, uses various forms of ownership, various forms of partnerships, various forms of designing new projects, and I think that can be an inspiration for us. At the same time, we see that in the past few years America has ruled a large number of banks, because they have fallen into great trouble and were of great importance. There's a "Chicatric" or some other ideologies, and basically, we're now seeing a certain convergence of different things. So I think in our case everyone has the right to their own opinion. And, in the end, you know where the responsibility is. It is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for one such decision and we are deeply convinced that it is in the best interests of our citizens. As far as your second question is concerned, the government has carried out what she said they would carry out. That wasn't easy. And today, at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have adopted certain provisions for those employed in the administration who have lost their jobs. It was very difficult, but at the same time the government has shown that the effort at these difficult moments will be properly deployed and that, above all, the state will make an effort. It's not easy for citizens, far from that. It's hard for the citizens. That's why the state has to bear the burden, and that's what's happening right now. As far as European integration is concerned, it is no secret that Serbia, if it wants to be a winner in European integration, must have a certain human capacity, implement reforms, prepare projects and implement them especially in the financial part. We have one number of our neighbours who have recently joined the EU and have failed to deliver to their citizens or 3% of the large funds allocated to the country. So we always have to look at some global level of what costs and what makes our citizens a certain move. What we need to do at this point, and inexplicably, is to form capacity in the Ministry of Finance, and very precisely, in four sectors that need to ensure that our country is certified (I'm sorry that I'm now entering some of the seemingly technical and dry details) for so-called. DIS, i.e. a decentralised management system for EU funds. This certification is a prerequisite for all five components of the European budget, for our administration to be able to manage the funds that the EU and European taxpayers will make available to us, and with candidate status, these are the two conditions that we can access all elements of the European budget, especially components three, four and five, and there are (I hope now speak much more understandable to everyone who listens and sees) funds for equal regional development, for agriculture and investment in human resources. It just seems to be very far away, but it's literally a year and a half away from us, so we can access those funds as well. Because actually, when you look at the structure of the European budget, about 37% goes to regional development, cohesion, about 30% goes to agriculture, and everything else is much less. So in front of us is seemingly a dry bureaucratic battle, human training, and behind that there are significant funds that will work for the benefit of all the citizens of this country. That's why, I don't confirm that 350. All I know is that there are some plans. For this year, it's important that by the end of the year, to be exact -- 72 people at the Ministry of Finance are trained to get that certification. It's an investment that will pay off our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40500	The word is Mr. Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40501	See, that wasn't my speculation. It was presented at the "Step Closer to European Integration" rally, and it was presented by, among other things, the gentleman who is the deputy head of the EU mission here in Belgrade Adriano Martins, if I am not mistaken. Secondly, you know that today it has come out that 130 workers will be fired at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at the Ministry of Labour 70, in health care also, in education 45, in the Ministry of Kosovo 23, and in yours, for science, eight. So you're firing workers to hire people or bureaucrats to deal with what's-his-name. European integration. That's the truth. As far as Russia is concerned, this project is run by Mr. Surkov, you know it. He's a civil servant. It's not an oligarch, it's a civil servant. He's running it. On the other hand, I would believe that the situation is similar here and in Russia if Mr. Miskovic showed at least partially that amount of philanthropy under the pressure shown by these oligarchs in Russia. Then I would believe that the same situation is here and in Russia. As for, excuse me, your phrases that we should be a winner in European integration, I think we will be a loser, behind Bulgaria and Romania, who are already in a terrible economic crisis, as well as Hungary and all other Eastern European countries, which are, in fact, losers and transition, benefiting only Western Europe and businesses as "Dec Telekom". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40502	The word is given to the People's Messenger Smiljana Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40503	Thank you, Your Honor. I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic, since he's already given an answer to a part of my question. We are witnessing that human rights have been flagrantly violated in KIM, especially in the past few days. Living in the 21st century without the right to communicate, it's just impossible. It's almost like living without water and electricity. We had a sharp reaction from the President of the Republic, then the Prime Minister, and I am sure both the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing everything possible to solve this problem with the KIM operator. I know it's very difficult, because so-called. Pristina authorities do not want any deal, not even on technical issues, unless it is agreed by two independent states, which is totally unacceptable to us. What can I tell the people who called me from the enclaves last night, say Milan from Strpce and some from Velika Hote -- when will this problem be solved, when will they get phone links? It is simply my question – will the government ask for the help of European institutions to solve the problem of KIM operators and how will it help the Serbian and other non-Albanian population, so that people do not think, as we say, that we are released down the water? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40504	First, both the city, and the signal of fixed and mobile telephony was returned to Strpce. And, of course, after a few days of action that was on several levels: technically - that this job is done to the state - in contact with our partners, and diplomatically, and it is certain that the desire to solve certain problems through dialogue is evidence and something that shows that this situation is not sustainable. In fact, what was declared by the so-called Kosovo institutions have not been accompanied at all, in many cases, by concrete actions. Our message to our countrymen is that we will always work that relationship, which is not only in the domain of telecommunications, but generally, is preserved, that no intimacy on that road will scare us. We will activate all our country's capacities and all our allies so this sort of thing doesn't happen again. I was on the day when some illegal, unilaterally, allegedly declared independence, was in Strpce. I was with our countrymen there, in that enclave that's the furthest, just to show, and then the vice president of the government, that what some want in no way will be accepted by our country, that they have support and we will continue that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40505	Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40506	Thank you, President, honourable Vice President and Minister, colleagues and colleagues, here's the day for us from LDP not to ask Mr Skundric anything. We will wait for the Board of Directors to adopt the document where losses are increasing and from which we conclude that Serbia will not profit, nor the budget benefit from that NIS for the next 10 years, but let us leave it at a time when it becomes an official document, Mr Skundric. I will ask Mr Djelic, since he is Vice-President for European Integration (I hope there will be a place for Euro-Atlantic integration in the future government). Your government says the Partnership for Peace is the right measure of co-operation with NATO right now. I hope this changes in the future, but I will concentrate on that part of Atlantic integration. So you're saying that the Partnership for Peace is a real measure. To participate in the Partnership for Peace, a Security Agreement with NATO needs to be ratified in the Assembly. The agreement was signed by Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac on 2 October 2008 with then-Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. The agreement has not yet come to parliament. You see why this agreement is important. The agreement regulates the exchange and storage of information with NATO. As they keep our information, so do we keep theirs. The agreement allows countries to co-operate with NATO. We did not ratify this agreement and, in essence, if there were any small, weak and poor activities in the Partnership for Peace, it was because they had seen through our fingers. Without ratification of the agreement, as far as I know, the appointed ambassador to NATO cannot leave because the agreement simply implies some assumption. For the sake of the citizens, I'll explain briefly what this is about. The agreement stipulates that an independent body is formed in the country similar to what is called the NATO Security Office in NATO, which conducts security checks on persons during activities with NATO. Most of all, this applies to a uniform, or military person, and the body is carrying out a security check on those persons whether they can come into possession of NATO secrets and what level. NATO has a different qualification of secrets than ours, which we recently passed by law and where we have only three types of secrets, and they have six types of secrets. Why does it matter? It's important because it's in practice...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40507	Time. Three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40508	I can say that the creation of this agreement was initiated during the previous government, where the prime minister was Mr. Kostunica, and that, if signed, there is no interference with him being ratified. I don't have an answer. I'm trying to make contact with my colleague Sutanovac, but either way, since I don't have a direct answer, I'm going to refer to him, so you're going to get an answer in accordance with Article 201(1). Serbia is co-operating within the Partnership for Peace and that is the right measure for Serbia. There are many beneficial effects for our country and there will be further development of co-operation with NATO.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40509	Sir, I'll stay, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40510	Thank you. I'm glad to hear it, but, you know what, one thing's another, it's another thing. The ratification of this agreement would be an act, and with this "co-operate with all" often Mr. Sutanovac reminds me of the director of the dedicated industry, not of the defence minister. This agreement is important because an independent body is formed to carry out security checks on officers, all who come into contact with NATO secrets, as NATO has its own body and those bodies exchange information, procedures and harmonize. That's important because in practice it happened that, let's say, this body in Bulgaria... Otherwise, these bodies in the countries make up the citizens of that country, so that the body, whatever it is called, the agency, the council, etc., would make our citizens, and not some foreigners, so there would be no confusion. The body, for example, with insight into the security check of the time, it was a few years ago, the commander of the Bulgarian Army's air force, made a decision that it could not be used by some NATO secrets. Why? It doesn't matter. In Croatia, there was a case that their similar body concluded that the Chief of General Staff of the Croatian Army was insufficient a few years ago, and not because he was an informant of the secret communist police or co-operated with some non-NATO secret services, but simply because he was arrogant, because he was involved in a fight in which two people lost their lives, etc. To clarify, this security check refers to the overall behavior of those who come into possession of secrets. It is extremely important to form that body, namely that this security agreement we ratify and that it starts to apply, because it will eventually be something that this Serbia lacks. If it's only for army officers, so make it a start for them. Because, let me remind you, Mr. Djelic, you know that in 1993 a lustration law was passed in this country and it is not applied because simply, the ruling majority, or the previous one, let's say Kostunica, and this one of yours, has no political will to enforce that law. Otherwise, in order to be implemented, we would have to choose the lustration commission that Mrs Djukic Dejanovic would suggest, but she does not and does not have that lustration commission. If there isn't this lustration commission, which would have had all of us, candidates, judges, prosecutors, etc. before the elections, then let's at least do what's signed, and let it be, as you say, the right measure, to be in one normal way. Yes, if we have signed something, we are ratifying here, and then this commission is formed and we are doing what little do you say the right measures of co-operation with NATO through the Partnership for Peace do like all normal states, not in some kind of "o-hand" way, through a link, behind the grains, etc. Often, Mr. Djelic, there is an impression that they are also financing European integration, and in this case I feel these Atlantic integrations, or the right to measure Atlantic integration at the moment. Remember recently, when we're talking about financing, that's what we're talking about. So I say, words and deeds are different, but actions must follow words. You say, "We will cooperate." Remember that we warned that if we didn't go to Kranj Hill, we would delay accepting our candidacy. And you started talking after a few days, Mr. Djelic, that only next year will be considered and we all know that the condition of Mladic is not disputed, but that we will have to wait for the Hungarian EU presidency, that during the Belgian and these six months none of it will be. So, from applying, we'll wait two years for them to accept our candidacy. All right, you guys keep your head down, but we can bet that's how it's gonna be. And now in Sarajevo there will be this formula from Kranj, without the name of the state, just the names of the people. However, in order not to get the impression that Serbia's European and Atlantic future is being falsified, I simply appeal to the government and the Assembly to come here for ratification as soon as possible, simply so that it can be applied. I'm not criticizing anything, I'm just asking that what you're up against in your words, sort of speed up when it comes to action.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40511	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40512	Like I said, you'll get written information about it. If it's signed, negotiated, there's no reason not to be ratified. The Department of Defense will inform you. As for our relations, it should be noted that in December of last year, on our initiative, the EU launched a procedure, i.e. Approved Mrs Ashton to start negotiations with us for the exchange of confidential information and with the EU, the relevant services. A few days ago, on 24 April of this year, Serbia was in the European Council's conclusions in a group of countries recognised as potential partners for EU peacekeeping missions. So we are also working on this field and we are already quite active and how we are present in that affirmation that is the novelty of the Lisbon Agreement for the EU, which is a common foreign and security policy. In that sense, we see ourselves in position. You mentioned, well, here we are, and to commend the Ministry of Defense and our dedicated industry and those who work with them, like the SDPR. It is true that a very important contract with Kuwait, which shows a certain dose of continuity, was concluded a few weeks ago with Algeria and we know for more than a year and a half for significant successes in Iraq. It is only the beginning and I believe that both those working in the dedicated industry and how well they see in this specific industry the new state policy of Serbia and the determination to access various markets in the right way and in line with what they want and what the international community accepts. It's all that leads to the revitalization, to the renaissance of our dedicated industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40513	Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40514	I didn't say anything negative about that. I just said, by the way, that sometimes I think Minister Sutanovac only deals with the dedicated industry and deals with it, but that's why I somehow wanted to put a focus on what is the essence of the future of Euro-Atlantic integration, which is co-operation with NATO. On the other hand, you have elegantly skipped the fact that we will attend the EU summit of this region in Sarajevo in the way it was proposed on Brdo near Kranj, but then it is not accepted. It is good to accept it now because, in the end, Mr Djelic, you know well that besides Mladic in The Hague, there is no alternative to arrest, however many times we have heard from the foreign minister that co-operation with The Hague does not mean and does not mean only the arrest and extradition of Mladic, that for Serbia, among other things, it is one of the conditions, not for accepting the candidacy, but for skipping some future steps, Mr Djelic, and good neighbourly co-operation. The good neighbourly co-operation is a condition not only for Serbia but for the whole region, and it is a consequence of what the EU has experienced with Cyprus, when it received Cyprus with the unresolved issue of Northern Cyprus. On the other hand, we often criticise the regional policy of Minister Jeremic and there are many moves that, in fact, lead us to this belief that European policy is being falsified or that it is going one step forward and two steps back. We are concerned because such behaviour can compromise the European idea of citizens who are committed to these values, and in words, if we agree, at this point there is no one who is against it. That's why I often find it strange what the Foreign Ministry does. I'm not asking you to criticize your colleague in the government, I'm taking this opportunity to, for the sake of the citizens, say it. Say it or, if you can comment, I just can't help but get the impression and I can't miss the chance when members of the government sit here. Unfortunately, I wanted to see Minister Sutanovec, he didn't come. I wanted to see Minister Dacic, ask him about that base at Nis, about the agreement he signed, he's gone. So please comment on me, Mr Djelic, whether in your opinion the conflict of interest is that the political director of the Foreign Ministry, the esteemed Borko Stefanovic, is appointed president of the Serbian Film Centre Management Board. Does this mean that the Foreign Ministry is now starting to deal with culture and that we can expect a series of films about Minister Jeremic in production probably somewhere on Wet Gora? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40515	Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40516	I think my colleague Jeremic is still a little young for those movies. We'll see about that later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40517	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40518	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will take the opportunity, when the ministers are present, to ask them questions. I am asking Mr Djelic a question about the privatisation of businesses in Serbia. The daily explanation is the fight against crime and corruption, and we know well how this criminal privatisation was done, that many companies that are privatized are not working. The second question for Minister Djelic is – what about the money we received, 200m euros, to encourage the work of young scientists and science and research? The third question for Minister Djelic is – what do you do with workers who today have 50-60 years of life, who are missing a few years of work, but in years when no one will accept them, many are sick, and they should pay taxes to the state and they should live? The fourth question is for Minister Skundric – how far have you arrived with the realisation of mini-hydroelectric projects? The fifth question is for Minister Obradovic, which is – will there be a shut-down of schools where the number of children is decreasing? I'm sorry, but I think you're under five and out. I think that in the period when you Minister of Education did much in education, you made certain schools and kindergartens regenerate and that the working conditions of these institutions were much better than they were in the previous period. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40519	You've asked more than one question. There's a business question planned, but... Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40520	From what you asked me as a question, from three I think we have about two, one is privatisation, and the question is, what about workers who no longer have a working relationship, and over the years they are between 55 and 60, they are still far from retirement and employment difficulties on the labour market. I think I answered the first question earlier, which is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will annul all privatisations where the conditions for the takeover of these companies are not met. Of course, this is not the solution for everything, because if difficulties have occurred in these companies, it is not realistic to expect the government to make up for all those unearned assets. We can't make up some incomes now that haven't been made on the market, but that doesn't mean we should leave people without any help and that's why there's social policy, on the one hand, and on the other hand, wherever possible, certification of health books, that is. Connecting the service, is what we're going to do, of course. As far as adult workers are concerned, that is one of the biggest challenges in the labour market. The easiest thing to say is that everyone retires. But this led to the situation that our country today has 1.6 million pensioners and about 1.8 million workers, and that the number of pensioners who paid everything that was provided for pension laws during their careers was barely 10%. So we have a serious challenge and it is not the solution to forming a new class of pensioners before time, because it will be a big problem for both this and any future government, because a country where you have more people who are inactive than those who are active is a society that has no real perspective. We have to fight for our fellow citizens who, in 55 or some later years, are looking for a job, having a specific treatment. It already exists through tax policy. We know that there are benefits for those who employ our citizens who are more than 50 years old, there are subsidies for it, there are specific programmes, but it is certain that this crisis has put additional challenges before us in the last year and a half, and therefore the Employment Service will continue to focus and have specific programmes for that group of people, where, rightly, you are the hardest. As for scientists, I don't know exactly what means you're talking about, but what I can say is that we... Excuse me? IMF? Well, no, the IMF is for Serbia's foreign reserves. So, the IMF doesn't give money for the budget, but money from the IMF serves to ensure the stability of the dinars and the external situation. For example, at this point in time, Greece needs IMF support to maintain its insolvency in international markets. That's not the case with our country. I can tell you that in Washington, where the annual assembly was held, we talked to IMF representatives about the scope of this programme, which we estimated a year and a half ago, when it was not known exactly how much this crisis was, and now we realize that the scope of this programme is too large and we are likely to go down to the scale of this programme, which shows a dose of our country's progress and success in the fight against this crisis. By the way, our country is the only country that got a better OECD rating last year, i.e. Organisations for Economic Co-operation in Paris. This is important because the rating of that organization was used by those organisations that provide business with our country, so now it's something cheaper to do business with our country and it's good for investment. However, for scientists, you have probably noticed that at the next meeting of this esteemed home we also have a law on ratification of the agreement with the European Investment Bank. I sincerely hope we get a huge number of votes for one of these ratifications. It would be a real message to those who do science, technology, who want to work with us in that domain. Meanwhile, together with counterpart Obradovic, we have provided 25m euros that are currently being located towards our higher education institutions. The relevant commission has done a difficult, necessary but good job and we will see that existing centres, of course, are quite affirmative, such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, receive funds, but also the State University in Novi Pazar. I want to say that because we talked about it two months ago with colleagues in Novi Pazar, who said that the university is a top priority for them. They nominated 1.2m euros in projects not for wages, not for fees, but for the infrastructure of the new, young university. I can tell you that this is what we have proposed to our colleagues from the EU, and this is one great news for this youth in Novi Pazar, who has enormous energy, who wants to learn, who wants to affirm and who wants to work. In that sense, that's what we do. You also saw that last Friday we signed, and that's the first agreement in 30 years, and 17 years after the vacuum that followed in 1993 we now have a valid agreement in the domain of science and technology with the United States. This is important because this agreement will provide our scientists, technologists, technology entrepreneurs with a view to making it easier for them to get visas when they co-operate within the project. Now we have a roof agreement, especially when this esteemed home ratifys it. It will be, hopefully, within the next few months, to sign agreements between universities and institutes, but also with companies. I've been informed by the Russian ambassador that our efforts over the past few months will bear fruit very quickly and we will soon sign a similar agreement with the Russian Federation. And should I remind you, last year we signed such an agreement with China. So also in science, reminding us that our strategic partner is also in the EU's science, because since 2007, since joining the Framework Programme seven, our institutes and colleges, and now some companies have been well affirmed, we have an average success of 20%, which is very good. Some 17m euros a year come to our country for our scientific infrastructure, our scientists and programmes, and that's just the beginning. These efforts we are now making will be something that will allow us to be a much more serious competitor in a very serious game of best talent. There will be a nation that will be passive and watch as at this moment, when the increasingly significant countries of this world increase funds for young scientists, they leave. Serbia will fight. It's very difficult, it's complicated, but we'll do it together with the Ministry of Education, with the Ministry of Culture, along with everyone. And that's what we'll see, I'll call all the representatives of the Science Committee of this esteemed home, or, if any other MP would like to join us, we'd be happy about that, May 23rd at the Sava Center. We called for the first time all members of our scientific community. They're 8,600. If everyone comes, we'll have a little bit of trouble, but we better have that, because that day we're going to start an officially new cycle of funding scientific technology projects for the next five years. So you will see in that call, and the draft of that call is on the website of the Ministry of Science, and I call upon you, the honourable Messenger, and all those who are interested in it. It's time to give all your suggestions to that call. He's vital to our future in science and technology. You will see that in that call we have for the first time specific provisions for young scientists. In other words, we give specific points to those teams that will propose as project managers or subprojects of those scientists who are under 40 years old. We have specific benefits for those who will propose a significant role for those who are the future of our science and our technology. Since this is a suggestion of many at this point, I believe it would be directed, although we have scarce resources, as we well know, that in this cycle we have a specific call that will be exclusively for those who are only a few years after the doctorate, five to ten, that only they can be the managers of these projects. That's how we give them our hand and say there's a future for them in this country, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40521	Thank you. Minister Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40522	Thank you, first of all, for this matter. I want to tell him right away that this government of the Republic of Serbia is not going to shut down the country's shut-down schools. Unfortunately, the demographic situation in Serbia is very bad and we have a situation that the network of schools does not monitor the demographic situation. There's a big gap. This morning, the Public Service published data on the number of Serbian residents this year compared to two years ago, that Serbia is smaller by about 35,000 people, one smaller town. It says that the demographic situation is very bad, but unfortunately, it's one trend that we have to solve as a state if we think we're going to last and if we think we have a future. I'm not saying this by accident. When it comes to the fate of these rural schools, it happens sometimes that the demographic situation, i.e. I've life affected the direct survival of those schools. Unfortunately, we have a large number of departments with fewer students. We have over 4,800 departments with less than 15 students. For example, I will mention only the Zlatibor County, where there are 53 departments with one or three students. You will admit yourself, the question of the foundation of the educational process with such a small number of students is very debateable. Of course, we're not going to take any action without doing one research and not consulting local self-government. We don't want to do any more damage than she can be. It is indisputable that we want to have a more efficient, more quality and competitive education system and we need to take care of the economic effects, but first of all, we need to take care of the students. We need to take care of what they gain as knowledge, what they gain as a ability, whether they get the knowledge they need for their age, whether they can continue schooling tomorrow in a nearby town or in some university environment. There are also departments that are combined, where there are several children from different classes, and then the issue of teaching is very debateable. I have to say that, as a minister of education, I didn't understand the contribution I saw on television about the termination of a class, where the teacher complained that it would not get an extension of the work in education, that he was sorry for young Milan because he would no longer hang out and learn, that he would not acquire the knowledge he was giving him, and then you had another picture, a statement from that boy who said – even though I travel a few miles away, I finally have company and finally have friends, friends and I can talk to them, and now I feel the right way to a student. I must say, we've opened this issue very wide. SANU had a significant gathering a few weeks ago on the importance of rural schools, as it has been shown in many aspects that the question of the existence of these schools is the fate of this area and, unfortunately, children from these schools have far less pass-by than others, but life goes on its course and economic and other reasons direct citizens in the other direction. But we'll look at the documents from a few years ago. Previous colleagues then discussed the network of schools and the fate of rural schools. We'll talk about it and talk to local self-government. I have to mention that local self-government cares about that, too. We'll see if anything, but as a positive one, I have to tell you an example of the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac. They, believe it or not, hired one person, who, of course, graduated from the Faculty of Natural Math, who deals with demographics, and then they did research. The Municipality of Gornji Milanovac, for example, is very disbanded and has a large number of departments next to home schools. This person, of course, with the agreement of the municipality's management and Mr. Marusic, as president, has made an analysis of the situation in these out-of-state departments. They found that, for example, they were going to work in this out-of-state department in 2011/12. be eight students, 2012/13. It'll be six students, but it'll be 2014/15. to be 12 students. Now, of course, when you have such a comprehensive analysis, then you're in a position to deal with the problem and say, well, you don't have to close the ward here because there's going to be a student. In another case, it doesn't have to be because there are students for the future or, if that's done, that we have some alternative, and the alternative is provided transport or something. That we have to do something, we have to, but we're not going to close the closing school for the sake of it, only if there's absolutely a reasonable reason. Of course, we will consult local self-government and I must tell you that we are with representatives of the council of national minorities, and when we have adopted the previous Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, we have discussed with them the whole issue because it is objectively of interest to these children and to their future. But we've got to take care of the money, we've got a few. You know, I've mentioned it more than once, we have a huge budget, but the structure of that budget is very bad. I don't mean anything negative about the structure, but it's who it is. When 95% goes for personal income, and 5% stays for everything else, then you can think about what kind of situation we are and how we should deal with that money economically and take care of it. Then every penny is important to us. But believe me, even before that, the dinar is important to us children. Because neither Serbia nor the education system will fail if, for a year, a department stays or so, but there must really be justification, first educational, then economic, the existence of a department with a minimum number of students, and whether it is even improving the education system. If not promoted, then you really need to have courage and suggest another solution and provide, of course, an alternative to transport, nutrition, etc. and create children an opportunity to be educated in a quality way, to have quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40523	I thank Minister Obradovic. The word is made by Minister Petar Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40524	Let me take this opportunity and share, hopefully, the pleasure and joy with you yesterday, after tens of years, we put into operation the first modern hydrocentral. There's a lot of symbolism in that, but more than symbolism. This year, it ends 110 years after the existence and work of the first hydro "Under the City" in Užica, which according to Tesla's principles was created, and the second hydrocenter was created in the world, after the one on Niagara Falls, which was released in 1896, and this "Under the City" in 1900. Thanks to the Ministry of Mining and Energy's strategy, the encouraging measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a legislative framework in the area of renewable energy sources, has been created and released into the work of hydrocenters in the area of one of the most underdeveloped municipalities, in the area of the municipality of Crna Trava. I'd like to inform you that in this same area, at least two or three small hydrocarbons will be released in the next few months. We have issued dozens of energy permits to build small hydrocentrals, and dozens of small hydrocentrals over 30 and over have been granted the status of a privileged producer of electricity, which will benefit from the government's incentive measures. Let me also mention one of the major regional development projects that includes the small hydrocentrals system, which should be built on the Ibar River. It is about ten cascaded hydrocentres of the total capacity of 104 megawatts of installed power, at the level of annual production of 420 gigawatt-hours. The investment in these energy plants will be 270-300m euros, and will be built in the partner relationship between the EPS and the Italian strategic partner. I think we have made a significant shift in this area, and I am convinced that there will be a lot of joy in the mandate of this government in relation to the release into operation of renewable energy-based capacities, i.e. clean energy producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40525	Thank you. Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40526	First, I want to thank you for this exhaustive answer, and as for the questions I have asked about the privatisation of the company, Mr. Minister and Vice President Djelic, I must say that this criminal privatisation has not only contributed to the unhappiness of certain companies, it has, in fact, contributed to the termination of the work of workers in them. It's a figure that each one represents in its own way, but it's probably moving up to a million workers. In order to introduce you to privatized companies in Šapec, where I come from, I will now chronologically tell you how this privatisation was going. The company "Renovating", a skin processing company and making clothing items from the skin, has been sold for 400,000 euros. The buyer is Tekon-MB, Belgrade. All machines have been sold out for 500,000 euros, and a tobacco buying centre has been opened within the factory, owned by the company "Alajans van Tabako". So the company's not working. "Ingo" Shabac, a meditarian manufacturing industry, founded in 1946, estimated 289 million dinars, sold 21 August 2003 for 21 million dinars. The buyer is Omni stok, Belgrade, and owner of Veselin Sekloć. The liquidation was declared in 2006 and continues to take place. All the equipment has been sold out, now empty halls are being betrayed, workers fired, no paid internships and paid wages. "Jela", a well-known furniture factory -- the buyer "Maniprom" Belgrade, and the price of 22 million dinars. All sales salons, whose squares ranged from 130 to 150 squares of business space, were sold out. So the factory doesn't work anymore. Decor, a dairy-farbar company that successfully operates during sanctions, is the starting price of around 1,300,000 dinars, sold for 50 million dinars. The company no longer works. "Sava", a catering and tourist company, the buyer "Luki Komerc", Pećinci, owner Milorad Pantic, and the price of 20 million and 700 thousand dinars. A sold-out catering company in the city, and the Privatisation Agency breaks up the contract with him afterwards. The company no longer works. The car company "July 7th" bought by Mile Jerkovic, one of the largest, who declared himself king of the Oranics...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40527	I'm sorry, maybe it wouldn't be bad for you to ask a question within the time available, so you'll get a written answer. Otherwise, you now have the right to ask a question. We won't have time to comment, and the government won't have time to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40528	Thank you very much. As you can see for yourself, that I don't count any further, because there are still a dozen companies in Shupco that don't work, I ask you, what about the workers who are not connected to the internship, or what about the workers who have lost their jobs? Ladies and gentlemen, this is today's picture of Serbia, which is today a picture of our local self-government. We wonder where, how and how to hire young people. You said right now, and I was at the London Science Institute 15 days ago, where there are about 20-25 of our young specialists in specialization, or where many work...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-29-0.u40529	Since it's 19.00, thank you. (Serboljub Zivanovic: Thank you. ) Dear members of the Government, honourable MPs, before we finish today's work, allow me to congratulate the citizens of Serbia and all of you on May 1st, International Labour Day. Workers around the world mark this day in hopes of fighting for a better tomorrow. [[Applause]] I hope that with more commonity, understanding and solidarity we will continue to contribute to the development of our country for the benefit of all its citizens, and of course workers. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. I would like to remind you that Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. To determine the number of MPs, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Milos Radulovic. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we move on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Refugee Laws After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group, written on the way, withdrew all amendments submitted to the bill on 7 April 2010 (Articles 4, 5, 8 and 19).). Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Of the 128 MPs, for 9. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 116. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Snezana Stojanović Plassic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of 128 MPs, 117 for. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of 128 MPs, 122 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Snezana Stojanovic Plassic and the MP of the people Vjerica Radet. Of 127 MPs, 15 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milorad Buha has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 10a be added after article 10. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of 127 MPs, 116 for. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of 127 MPs, 107 for. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 18th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plasic. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 119 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 19th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 125 voted for the law in general. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF REGIONAL Development Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, it voted 125. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A Member of the 1st Amendment was sent by a Member of the Parliament of Alexander Ilic. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 119 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 115 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 12th amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of 130 MPs, 113 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st National MP of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you he's a member of the 29th. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In light of the bill's proposal, the Government cited particularly the reasons why the entry into force before the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", since this law is one of the measures of the Government to combat the global economic crisis that has consequences on our economic system as well, and how this law and the consequences are mitigated, it is proposed that the law enter into force on the next day of publication. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 131 MPs, 123 voted in favour. The National Assembly has determined that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act in general. Of the 131 MPs, 123 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that the citizens make in the Privatization procedure since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted for the law in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is under Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure rejected as the untimely amendments of MP Moma Colakovic to Articles 2 and 11. The draft law, and the rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Dragan Stevanovic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Vladan Jeremic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Of the 128 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 7th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Sreto Peric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic Milan Škrbic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, five voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Lidija Dimitrijevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Vladan Jeremic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 19th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, the amendment voted 8. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Sreto Peric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 24th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 25th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milorad Buh. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of the 127 MPs, four voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 27th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of the 127 MPs, five voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 125 is in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right of Free Action and the Monetary Compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PRIVATION AGENCY After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected, as an untimely, the amendment of MP Mom Colakovic to Article 5. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, a group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group and MP Milan Skrbic submitted. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Both MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, for 113. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, for 111. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 10th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of 127 MPs, for 112. The amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Of 127 MPs, five for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, in general. Of the 127 MPs, for 121. The National Assembly passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency. We move to the 5th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF METROGY After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting a vote on the M.E. bill, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, he voted 121. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that it is the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected, as incomplete, an amendment submitted by MP Dusan Maric to article 11. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to the MPs of Zlata Djeric to member 17 and Momčil Duvnjak to Article 49. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milan M. Nikolic submitted the 5th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Of 127 MPs, one MP for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Milan Nikolic submitted the amendment to Article 14. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Zlata Djeric submitted to the 16th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Science and Technological Development submitted an amendment to Article 17. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 115 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 37th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 38th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 39th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 40th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 45th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, submitted an amendment to Article 47. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 117 were declared. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the M.E. bill, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 117 were declared. The National Assembly passed a bill on metrology. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Population from Exposure to DUVANS DIM After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on protecting the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, in principle. Of 127 MPs 124 is in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that at the session of the Committee on Health and Family MP Dušanka Plecevic withdrew the amendment to Article 9. The bill, and MP Nikola Krpić, written on 19 April 2010, withdrew the amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, 117 for. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health and Family have submitted an amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. Proposer Nebojsa Bradic, culture minister, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Of the 127 MPs, 102 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 108 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above Articles 5 and 5. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st National MP of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was filed by MP Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 7th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health and Family have submitted an amendment to the article. Seven. It's a bill of law. Proposer Nebojsa Bradic, culture minister, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Of the 127 MPs, 119 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health and Family have submitted an amendment to the article. Nine. It's a bill of law. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 115 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. We're voting on this amendment and we're pleading on it. No one for the amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 12th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and MP Zoran Shami. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic to the Committee on Health and Family and the Government accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, 111 for. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above the 16th and the 16th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was submitted to the same text by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and joint MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 127 MPs, one MP voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and joint MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic and MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and joint MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic and MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpic. Of the 127 MPs, one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 28th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The Assembly has not adopted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on protecting the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, in general. Of the 126 MPs, 120 were declared. The National Assembly passed a bill on protecting the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND MEDICINAL PRODUCTS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the bill to the vote on drug laws and medical means, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 123 voted. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. We'll have to determine the quorum first. We will again declare Mr Dusan Maric's amendment to Article 1. Of the 126 MPs, 6 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. We can't work without a quorum. I'll take a break if we don't have a quorum. We're re-establishing the quorum. I'd like to ask you to see if you're registered. I'm setting a 15-minute break. [[After break – 12.00]] Let's first determine the quorum. Ambassador Milan Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Milan Knezevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Committee on Health and Family, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 27. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Milan Knezevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 34th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Masic and Milan Knezevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 35th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Masic and Milan Knezevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Verse of Radet. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Dragi Damjanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. A member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 74th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Masic, Mileta Poscurica and Milan Knezevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 75th Amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 75th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Masic and Milan Knezevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 76th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Milan Knezevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 80th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Milan Knezevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Masic, Mileta Poscurica and Milan Knezevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Zlata Djeric submitted to the 84th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 87th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, 122 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Masic and Milan Knezevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 91st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milet Poscurica, Predrag Mijatovic and Milan Knezevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 98th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 101st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 112th amendment was submitted by MP Dragi Damjanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 120th Amendment was filed by Dušanka Plecevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to Article 125. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 135th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarian Simo Vukovic submitted the amendment to Article 144. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 144 by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 147th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to article 148. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 149th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 151st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 153rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic to Article 153. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 154th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 154th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric to Article 164. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 112 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The Committee on Health and Family, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 176. The government has accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, 122 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 182 by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 196th amendment was submitted by MP Dragi Damjanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Dušanka Plecevic submitted to Article 208 of the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Simo Vukovic submitted to Article 212 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. An MP, Sheriff Hamzagic, submitted the amendment to Article 217. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 221st Amendment was submitted by MP Sheriff Hamzagic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 120 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 226th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on drug laws and medical means in general. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted for the bill. The National Assembly passed a bill on medicines and medical resources. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE SOURCE Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put a vote on the forest bill, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted for the law in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee dismissed, as an untimely, amendment by the People's MP, Arpad Fremond, as an article. 1 and 69, to the title above Article 70, to Article 84, to the title above Article 98, to the title above Articles 99 and 99, to Article 99. 100, 103, 112 and 114, and an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 114a. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted to Article 14 of the amendment by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the representative of the proposer accepted the amendment. We declare an amendment that has been accepted at the meeting of the Department of Agriculture. Of the 128 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 16 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the representative of the proposer accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 113 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 20th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 128 MPs, one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Nikolic tabled an amendment proposing a new Article 38a to 38k. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the 41st Amendment have been tabled by the Committee on Agriculture. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the representative of the proposer adopted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 107. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Miroslav Petkovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 60th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 64th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the 70th Amendment were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 118. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 70th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Of the 128 MPs, 8. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 75 and article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 80th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the 82nd Amendment were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 115. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the 84th Amendment were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, for 101. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the title above Article 88 and to Article 14 of the amendment were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 115. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Members of the 91st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 109. The amendment has been accepted. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the amendment to Article 98th. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MP Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 111 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 123. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 112st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 112, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 116. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 113 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the representative of the proposer accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 118. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 113. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the amendment to Article 113. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 119th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 120th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the part of "The List of Forests and Forest Lands of Forest Areas", which is an integral part of the bill's proposal, in sections 1, 4, 7, 9, 10, 16, 17 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, 107 for. The amendment has been accepted. On the part of "The List of Forests and Forest Lands of Forest Areas", which is an integral part of the Bill's proposal, the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, 118 for. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the bill of forest law to the vote, in general. Of 127 MPs, 122 for. The National Assembly passed a bill on forests. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on water to the vote, in principle. Of 127 MPs, 123 for. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Siniša Stamenković submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, 9 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Of 128 MPs, 106 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Arpad Fremond. Of 128 MPs, 6 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Of 128 MPs, 113 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 67th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 69th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Of 128 MPs, 116 for. The amendment has been accepted. Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 7 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 90th Amendment. Of 128 MPs, 6 for. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted the amendment to Article 94. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 97th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Of 128 MPs, 109 for. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the amendment to Article 98th. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group tabled a title above the 107th and 107th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 133. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of 128 MPs, 118 for. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the amendment to Article 133. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 134th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 140th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 145th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture tabled an amendment to Article 146. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 115 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 150. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 109 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. He submitted to Article 151 of the amendment Siniša Stamenkovic. Of 128 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of 128 MPs, 7 for. The amendment was not accepted on Article 152 of the amendment by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 153. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 110 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Arpad Fremond. Of 128 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 171st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 171st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Arpad Fremond. Of 128 MPs, three for. The amendment was not accepted. The 173rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Of 128 MPs, 111 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 173 by Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to section 2.2.7 and Article 2. 183, 184, 185 and 186. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 113 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 189th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 191st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to article 193 by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 194th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new section and three new members of 194a, 194b, be added behind Article 194. and 194v. Of 128 MPs, 8 for. The amendment was not accepted on Article 196 of the amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of 128 MPs, 8 for. The amendment was not accepted On Article 199 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Of 128 MPs, 105 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic to Article 199. Of 128 MPs, 9 for. The amendment was not accepted on Article 201. The amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of 128 MPs, 8 for. The amendment was not accepted on Article 201 of the amendment by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 205th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of 128 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted. Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to Article 206 of the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 7. The amendment was not accepted. Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to Article 208 of the amendment. The amendment was voted on by 7. The amendment was not accepted. Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to Article 209 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 8 for. The amendment was not accepted. Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to Article 211 of the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, this amendment was voted on by 6. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Art. 142. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to the title above. 220th and Art. 220. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The vote was 112, of 128 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 220th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 221a be added behind article 221a. Nine out of 128 MPs voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 222 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. One for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 226th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 228. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 106 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 230th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture tabled an amendment to Article 232. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 98 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on water in general. Please, we're voting on the bill in general. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted yes. The National Assembly passed the draft water laws. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF RECOGNISATION OF THE POLYPRIOR BILJA Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the recognition of the variety of agricultural herbs, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 119 were declared. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and MP Srboljub Zivanovic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Agriculture tabled an amendment to Article 2. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please let us plead as well. Of the 128 MPs, 105 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 8th Amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one has pleaded for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 20th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Siniša Stamenković submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, five voted. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture tabled an amendment to Article 26. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. A member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 107 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the recognition of agricultural plant variety, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that a bill on the recognition of agricultural plant variety has been passed. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF BEER LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft beer bill to the vote, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 121 MPs voted in principle for the bill. I find the bill accepted in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 105 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Under the name of Chapter II above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment, MP Željko Brestovici has submitted. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milutin Jelic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 105 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 109 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 109 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 108 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of 127 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of the 128 MPs, 8 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 108 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of the 128 MPs, 8 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 18th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of the 128 MPs, five voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the amendment. The assembly accepted the amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 101 voted. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 104 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 107 voted. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 89 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 103 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of the 128 MPs, two voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the bill of beer, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 124 voted in favour of the proposal. The National Assembly passed a bill on beer. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and END OF THE VETERINARY LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 122 voted in favour of the proposal. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The second amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The second amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The second amendment was submitted by Miroslav Marinkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovici Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MP Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovici Zoran Nikolic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 122 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zeljko Brestovici submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 18a be added after article 18a. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 108 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milorad Krstin submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 19a be added after article 19a. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Bortic submitted an amendment proposing that new members of 19a, 19b and 19v be added after article 19. Of the 128 MPs, the vote was 6. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 20th amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Zoran Nikolic and Donka Banovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic together submitted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic and joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 45th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 56th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 57th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment to Article 58. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 58th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 61st amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 62nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted the amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 65th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Gentlemen, just to let you know that we are going to postpone the start of a session that was scheduled for 14.00 hours until after the vote is over. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 67th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 70th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Bortic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 86 be added after article 86. Of 128 MPs, 7 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milorad Krstin submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 96 be added after article 96. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 98th amendment, with correction, was filed by Zoran Bortic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 122 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE ORGANISAL PRODUCTION After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the motion for an organic production bill on principle. Of the 128 MPs, 119 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 4th amendment was submitted by Milica Vojić Markovic. Of the 128 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, tabled an amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 107 were declared. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Tomic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to the Name of Chapter II, the title above Articles 7 and 7. Proposer representative Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 102 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to the title above. Article 8 8. Proposer representative Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 108 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture tabled an amendment to Article 9. Proposer representative Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 103 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Tomic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic Markovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milutin Jelic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 106 for. The amendment was accepted on Article 13 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Tomic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic Markovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic Markovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Tomic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted On Article 24 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 40 of the amendment by MP Radica Jocic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 41 of the amendment by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by Tomislav Ljubenovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 43 of the amendment by MP Milan Škrbic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted to article 44 of the amendment was filed by Lydia Dimitrijevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 45 of the amendment by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 47 of the amendment by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 99 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the motion for an organic production bill in general. Of the 128 MPs, for 116. The National Assembly passed a bill on organic production. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE OBLIGATION OF ADVICE AND EXPERIENCES IN THE POLJOPRIORITY Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the implementation of advisory and professional activities in the field of agriculture, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 102 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. At the name of Head VI, the amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, it is 116. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of the 128 MPs, for 10. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the implementation of advisory and professional activities in the area of agriculture, in general. Of the 128 MPs, for 122. The National Assembly adopted a bill on the implementation of advisory and professional activities in the area of agriculture. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments of the Law on the General Administrative Procedure Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the General Administrative Procedure Act, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Veroljub Arsic and Mico Rogovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment to which new members of 20a are added after Article 20a, 20b. and 20v. together, MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Veroljub Arsic and Mico Rogovic submitted. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 141(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 22. The government has accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, for 108. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorgvanka Tabakovic, Veroljub Arsic and Mico Rogovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the General Administrative Procedure Act, in general. Of 127 MPs, for 120. The National Assembly adopted the draft law amending the General Administrative Procedure Act. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON SERVICES AND WRITES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, in principle. Of 127 MPs, 119 for. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of the 127 MPs, four were declared. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Natasa Micic and Vesna Pesic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Otto Kismarton, Sasa Maksimovic and Jelena Budimirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milica Radovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov, Dragan Colic and Predrag Mijatovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting him to a vote. I'm putting the government's accepted amendment to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 113 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand we've adopted the amendment. The government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment. The Committee has accepted the amendment of the Government. Of the 127 MPs, 98 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Gordana Pop Lazic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on official use of language and letters, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the publication of laws and other regulations and general acts and on the issue of the "Serb's official representative" since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. Of the 127 MPs, 119 voted. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Mirko Munjic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Dragan Šormaz together submitted the 2nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric, Petar Jojic and Mirko Munjic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric, Petar Jojic and Mirko Munjic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Mirko Munjic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 5a be added after Article 5a. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric together submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the publication of laws and regulations and general acts and the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" in general. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the publication of laws and regulations and general acts and the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". We move to the 18th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF POSTAL SERVICES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on postal services, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Transport and Communications Committee, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make your statement on this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted an amendment to Article 6 with a proposal for a new member of the 6a. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Transport and Communications Committee, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 8. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. An MP named Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 8th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Transport and Communications Committee, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 11. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 115 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 113 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 13a. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 14a. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Milovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 20th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 21st amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 24th amendment. One for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Transport and Communications Committee, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 31. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 112 voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zeljko Ivanji and Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 97 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Transport and Communications Committee, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 35. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 111 voted in favour of the amendment. This means that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 37th Amendment, with correction, was filed by Željko Ivanji. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 111 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly adopted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on postal services in general. Of the 128 MPs, 120 voted in favour of the bill as a whole. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Marking of the Day of Grief on the territory of the Republic of Serbia After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the marking of the day of mourning in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of the 128 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the marking of the day of mourning in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law marking the day of mourning in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE OLD AND NATIONAL KINS FROM EXTERNAL MEANS Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the establishment of an old and rare book of exceptional importance. Of the 128 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the establishment of an old and rare book of exceptional importance. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Security Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 111 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Parliamentarian Dusanka Plecevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and MP Sreto Peric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st National MP of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st National MP of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 16. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. A member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 116 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 104 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st National MP of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 35th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 36th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on the central register of mandatory social security, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, I'd like to give you a heads-up. To vote by the end of today's session, we need to have a majority of the votes of all MPs, or at least 126 votes. Can we please concentrate, or maybe you'd like to take a break? As we now move to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international agreements, i.e. the agreement (points 22 to 90 of the agenda, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, by a majority of votes by all MPs. I also remind you that the amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, so the National Assembly will vote in general on these bill proposals. The exception are the draft laws, paragraphs 39 and 40 of the agenda, to which the amendments have been tabled, so the National Assembly will only vote on these proposals of the law in principle, detail and general. We're moving on to a decision. We move to item 22 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Iraq on Sarad and military training for Iraqi Armed Forces of 128 National MPs, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on Saradnje in the area of defence of 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to item 24 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF CONSERVATION OF THE MEMORANDUM ON UNDER THE GOVERNMENT OF THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY ON SARADN IN THE AUTHORITY OF THE DESCRIPTION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE 128 PUBLICANT MEMBERS, 127 is for. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 25th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Exchange and Private Protection of Classified Information in the Area of Defence of 128 National MPs, 128 is for. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We are moving to the 26th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Saradism in the area of defense of 128 MPs, 127 is for. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 27th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CONFORMATION LAW BETWEEN THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA ASSOCIATION IN THE AUTHORITY OF THE DECLARATION OF 128 MEMBER STATES, 128 is for. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move on to the 29th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia and the Black Gore and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Military Cooperation of 128 National MPs, 127 is for. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 28th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE ASSOCIATION DECISION BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL IN THE DECLARATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF 128 MEMBER STATES, 127 is for. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 30th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE MEMORANDOM ON UNDER THE GOVERNMENT OF THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF Great BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND ON SARADY IN THE AUTHORITY OF THE DEFENCE OF THE SERVANT OF 128 MEPS, 127 is for. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 31st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on the Facilitated Procedure for issuing visas of 128 Members of the People, 127 is for. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 32nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the release of visas for holders of diplomatic and service passports Of 128 Members of the People, 126 is for. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 33rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on the Facilitated Procedure for issuing visas of 128 Members of the People, 127 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 34th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the Technical and Financial Cooperation of 128 Members, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 35th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing and Statutory of the European Public Law of 128 Members, 127 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 36th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between Serbia and the Black Gore and the United States of America on Employment of Persons living in the common home country with members of the diplomatic and consular offices serving in Serbia and Montenegro, namely in the United States of America of 128 MPs, voted for 128. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 37th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONSERVATION OF THE DEFINITIVE PROTOCOL WITH THE WOMAN CONVENTION OF 12. August 1949. The year on the adoption of the additional identification mark (Protocol III) of 128 MEPs voted 127. The National Assembly adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 38th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on Saradication in the Area of Culture and Education Of 128 MEPs voted 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 39th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONVENTION OF CONVENTION ON DELIVERY IN THE INSTITUTION OF THE COURT AND VANSUDICIAL ACTS IN CIVIL AND TRADE THINGS OF 128 MEPs voted 127. The National Assembly passed the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. The amendments require a majority of the votes of all MPs. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. With the majority of votes of all MPs, the National Assembly accepted this amendment. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Please, and here we need at least 126 MPs to vote for the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. With the majority of votes of all MPs, the National Assembly accepted this amendment. Since we have made clear on the draft law in principle and on the amendments submitted, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on the supply abroad of judicial and non-judicial acts in civil and commercial matters, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. Most of the votes of all MPs were adopted by the National Assembly by the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Foreign Delivery of Court and Non-Court Acts in Civil and Commercial Matters. We move to the 40th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence INSTRUMENT IN CIVIL AND TRADE THINGS IN PRINCIPLE OF 128 MEPs, for a vote of 128. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. With the majority of votes of all MPs, the National Assembly accepted this amendment. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. With the majority of votes of all MPs, the National Assembly accepted this amendment. Since we have made clear on the draft law in principle and on the amendments submitted, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad in civil and commercial matters, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. Most of the votes of all MPs were adopted by the National Assembly by the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Foreign Evidence in Civil and Commercial Matters. We move to the 41st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters of 128 Members voted 128. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 42nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Black Gore on Extradition of 128 MPs, for a vote of 128. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 43rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a COURT OF CONSERVATION OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE ON THE INTERMEDIATE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COURT DECISIONS IN CRIMINAL THINGS OF 128 MEPs voted 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 44th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONCERNING THE CONVENTION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL USE AND SEXUAL IMPLEMENTATION OF 128 MEMBER STATES, for 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 45th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Economic Cooperation of 128 MEPs voted 126. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 46th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Saradication in the field of INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS Please, colleagues, let us concentrate a little more. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 47th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Economic Saradic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro of 128 MEPs voted 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We are moving to the 48th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Black Gore on Private Encouragement and the Protection of Investments From 128 MEPs voted 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 49th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION LAW BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PORTUGAL ON THE SUPPORT AND PROTECTION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF 128 MEMBER STATES, to declare 126. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 50th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Economic and Technical Saradics between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Government of the country of KUVATE Of 128 MEPs voted 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 51st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Government of the State of KUVITE ON SARADY IN THE COUNTRY OF TURISM OF 128 MEPs, for 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 52nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Temporary Import of 128 MEPs voted 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 53rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION OF THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND MALTA ON THE REFERENCE OF TWO DETECTION WITH REGARD TO THE INVESTIGATION OF 128 MEMBER STATES, for 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 54th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Protocol Confirmation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic with the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of the Czech Republic on the avoidance of Double Taxation in relation to Income Taxation and Property of 128 Members, voted 126. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 55th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION LAW BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE AND THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA ON THE REFERENCE OF A DIFFERENCE INVESTIGATION WITH REGARD TO THE INVESTIGATION OF 128 MEMBER STATES, for a vote of 128. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 56th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION OF THE CONTRIBUTION BOOK BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA AND IRELAND ON THE REFERENCE OF THE DOUBLE INVESTIGATION REFERRED TO THE INVESTIGATION OF 128 MEPS, for a vote of 128. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 57th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION LAW BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE BIG SOCIAL NATIONAL LIBIA JAMAHIRIA ON THE avoidance of BALKUAL IMPLEMENTS ON THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF 128 MEPS, for a vote of 128. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 58th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION LAW BETWEEN THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COUNTRY OF THE CATEGORY ON THE avoidance OF TWO DECESCRIPTION WITH REGARD TO THE INVESTIGATION OF 128 MEMBER STATES, the vote was 128. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 59th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONFORMATION OF THE CONVENTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATION OF THE WORK Number 183 ON THE PROTECTION OF THE TERMINATION OF 128 MEMBER STATES, for a vote was 128. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 60th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on Social Security Of 128 MEPs voted 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 61st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of the Unsustainable Cultural Heritage of 128 MPs voted 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 62nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the Value of Cultural Heritage for the Society of 128 MEPs voted 126. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We are moving to the 63rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Regional Centre for Life Centre for the Central and Eastern European Centre for the Legal Status of the Regional Centre for Life Centre in the Republic of Serbia of 128 MEPs, which voted 128. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We are moving to the 64th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Saradication between the Allied Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Centre for the Mid-term Forecast of Time (ECSPV) Of 128 MEPs, 126 votes in favour of 126. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 65th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol on the Strategic Impact Assessment of Life Wednesdays in the Cross-border Context of 128 MEPs voted 128. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We are moving to the 66th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on Civil Responsibility for the damage caused by the polluted oil plant of 128 MEPs voted 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 67th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control of Harm Systems, which is used against the education of 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 68th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Law of 1997. Years on changes and additions to the International Convention on the Prevention of Contaminants from Ships from 1973. Years, changed and complemented by the 1978 Protocol. The year, which had a bearing on it of 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 69th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENT OF THE PROTOCOL OF 3. June 1999. Years on amendments to the Convention on International Railway Vehicles (COTIF) of 9. May 1980. YEARS (1999 PROTOCOL) AND THE CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADES (COTIF) OF 9. May 1980. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. June 1999. A YEAR OF 128 MEPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 70th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Border Control in the Railway Co-operation of 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 71st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the International Transport of Dangerous Freight (ADR 2007) Of 128 MEPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We are moving to the 72nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Agreement on the INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT OF A DANCY OF 128 MEPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 73rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Law of 2005. The years on the amendments and additions to the Convention on the subsidisation of illegal work against the security of the support ship of 128 MEPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 74th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE BUDGETAL CONVENTION ON THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE SERVANTS ON INFERENCES (CMNI) Of 128 MEPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We are moving to the 75th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the FONDATION SARADNI “TranseEuropean Railway (TER)” Of 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 76th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the Transport of Travellers and Things in the INTERNATIONAL DRUME OF 128 MEPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 77th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the Inter-European Transport of Slaves and Logistic Services of 128 MEPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 78th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the International Drum transport of passengers and things of 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 79th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Federal Council on the Transport of Travellers and Things in the Drumsian Transport of 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We are moving to the 80th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF AMANADMENT TO ARTICLE XII (C) (II) OF THE CONTRACTION ON INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION TO THE SATELAND ORGANISATION (ITSO) Of 128 MEPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 81st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Final Acts of the Regional Conference on Radio-Communications for the Planning of Digital Terrestrial Radiological Service in the Works of Region 1 and 3, in the Frequent Obsessions 174-230 MHz and 470-862 MHz (RRC-06) Of 128 MEPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 82nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Amendments and Completions of Certain Parts of the REGIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS (STOCKHOLLM, 1961) With resolutions (RC-06-REV. ST61) Of 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 83rd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of acts amending the constitution and convention of the International Telecommunications Alliance of 128 MEPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We are moving to the 84th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on Saradication in the field of poltergety and related sectors Of 128 MEPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 85th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel on Saradicity in the field of POLYOPRIVRED OF 128 MEPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 86th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on synergy in the field of veterinary and animal health protection of 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. Most of the votes of all the MPs have passed the bill. We move to the 87th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONSERVATION OF THE EUROPEAN CONVENTION ON THE PROTECTION OF THE SECURITAL AND OTHER SCIENTIFIC SURVEILLANCE OF THE PROTOCOL ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE EUROPEAN CONVENTION ON THE PROTECTION OF THE SECURITATION OF THE SECURITAL AND OTHER SCIENTIFICS OF THE EUROPEAN CONVENTION ON THE PROTECTION OF THE SECURITATION OF THE SECURVEILLANCES OF THE SECURITAL AND OTHER SCIENTIFICS OF THE EUROPEAN CONVENTION, all 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 88th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on the Protection of Housewives Of 128 MPs to be declared 127. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 89th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Complementary Agreement with the Fundamental Agreement on Technical Saradication between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil on the Partnership in the Veteran Area of 128 MEPs, which voted 128. I find that most of the votes of all the MPs have passed the bill. We move to the 90th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and Inter-International Lakes and Amendments to Art. 25. And 26. The conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes of 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that most of the votes of all the MPs have passed the bill. We move to the 91st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON EDUCATION OF THE SPECIFIC AUTHORITIES FOR THE PROPOSAL OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE PROGRAMMES FOR THE REALITY OF THE SPECIFIC AUTHORITIES ON THE REFERENCE OF THE NEW CHILDREN FROM THE PARENTS After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put the amendments to Chapter 1 to the vote. National MP Milos Aligrudic made a proposal for a decision. The promoter has accepted this amendment. Of the 130 MPs, 123 declared themselves. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I remind you it's point 7. The proposal for a decision provides for this decision to take effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger". In the light of the proposal for a decision, the applicant stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this Decision, within the meaning of Article 196(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, were: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia shall consist, as soon as possible, of the Working Group, which will carry out the task within the deadline provided for, and thus enable the competent authorities to act on the parent's applications and provided for by the proposal for a measure in the Report of the Survey Committee. I am putting the motion for a decision to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of publication. Of the 130 MPs, 126 voted in favour. In particular, the National Assembly has decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the decision within eight days of its publication. We move on to a decision-making decision in general. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the Education of the Working Party for the Draft Law in order to create formal legal conditions for the handling of competent authorities following reports of the disappearance of newborn children from maternity care in general. Since there's a discrepancy between the counter and the picture, we're going to have to repeat the vote in general. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the Education of the Working Party for the Draft Law in order to create formal legal conditions for the handling of competent authorities following reports of the disappearance of newborn children from maternity care in general. Of the 130 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision on the education of the Working Group. We move to the 92nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision on the choice of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, before we move to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly elects the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality by majority of the votes of all MPs, as well as that of Article 28(1). A law prohibiting discrimination has been established that the Commissioner is elected by the National Assembly, by the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision on the choice of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a draft decision on selecting the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 93rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out the search, and before the transition to decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the selection of members of the National Assembly board. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 94th item of the agenda: – I am putting the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, to vote on the amendment of the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It takes us 126 to vote this decision. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. Most of the MPs have adopted the draft decision. I remind you of the provisions of Article 100, Section 5 and Section 10. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Milan Avramovic, at a session on 7 April 2010, at 21 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Six out of 129 MPs voted for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a session on 15 April 2010, at 17 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 104 and 105. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 128 MPs, no one has pleaded for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all the points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Please, a session of the Defence and Security Committee, as well as a college, will be held after work is completed in the plenary room. (The session is closed at 3:30 p.m. )
