ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45852	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, the session takes place on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly before we move on to further discussion. Article 286(2) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that the President, the President of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials, and on issues within the framework of the rights and duties of these officials and of the authorities at which they are headed, and this right can be achieved at the session of the National Assembly in a single address for up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the sitting, and the transition to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286? Yeah. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45853	As the public is known, yesterday, on 27 October 2010, a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the collective security agreement was held in St. Petersburg about 15 days or more, Mr. Grizzlov, sent a call to the National Assembly for participation in the session, of course as observers, since we are not formal members. The invitation letter said he expected the National Assembly to be the president of the National Assembly and MPs, meaning a delegation formed by the National Assembly. He also stated in the letter that he was aware that at least three political parties, parliamentary ones, wanted institutional co-operation with the organisation's Parliamentary Assembly, so he expected representatives of at least these three parliamentary groups to be present, namely: DSS, SRS and SNS. About the moment Mr. Grizzlov's letter came to the Assembly, the moment we learned about him was 10 days ago, and we learned about it through the Russian embassy. It's just that no one here has honored, and especially the President of the National Assembly, to inform us of that call, or of us or other MPs, at least as far as we know. She responded to that call only when some of the heads of these parliamentary groups warned her of it orally, and it was only a few days before the meeting was held. Then, the president of the National Assembly, in agreement with Dragoljub Micunovic, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, somehow ordered Mrs Nada Kolundji to represent the Assembly, and Mrs Nada Kolundžija did not go to the meeting. Only Mr. Bajatovic was of the government's representatives at the meeting in the end. Our representative, Mr. Jovan Palalic, went to our expense, in agreement with the organizer of the meeting, because no other agreement with the National Assembly president here was possible. So our presentation at this meeting is a disgrace to this Parliament, because of the way the ruling coalition does, and I am sorry that the President of the National Assembly, as the main and responsible for this, is not present here, to answer me a very specific question – what were the motives and what was the reason not to send the letter, or letter to Mr Grizzlov, immediately to all the MP clubs in the National Assembly? Why is that hidden from us? Why did this whole thing have to be done forcefully, by putting informal pressure on the president of the National Assembly, to have anyone sent there at all? Why did the government, with the exception of Mr. Bajatovic, not participate in the meeting? I think the answer to that question lies in the following, I will not prejudge it, but I have to give my political court, in that it was thought that it would put a finger around the representatives of the NATO Pact and in general the North Atlantic Alliance, because obviously the ruling coalition or at least one of its important parts is flocking to the membership of that organisation and it was thought that any presence of such a parliamentary assembly in St. Petersburg would be a problem from that point of view. My second question is for the government, given the new circumstances, of obvious intentions, when they think to discuss a referendum on Serbia's entry into the NATO Pact? Because this same National Assembly has been defined as military neutrality, attending such a session has nothing to do with violating military neutrality, as it does not have the presence of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. When it will be defined as a referendum, so that the citizens of Serbia can declare themselves in the decisions of the National Assembly on this important issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45854	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45855	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you are probably familiar with from the media, a group of Sremska Mitrovica police officers brutally beat Nikola Seselj, the oldest son of the SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj, on October 26th of this year and inflicted serious physical injuries on him. Mr. Nikola Seselj said there was even the possibility that he would lose sight not only of the serious injuries he sustained, when beaten by police of an intervention unit from Sremska Mitrovica, but also of an eye. Police, as we could see, have arrested very dangerous criminals in the past few months, including Milos Simovic, who has been charged with the murder of the late Zoran Djindjic, but we have not heard that police beat him up. The SRS is interested, the MPs of the SRS are interested, all of us who are friends of Vojislav Seselj are interested, and I think most of the citizens of Serbia are interested, and this is my parliamentary question for the government of the Republic of Serbia and for the Ministry of the Interior, did these officers act on their own? Is it that a group of police officers overstepped their powers and severely injured their official duties, as reported in yesterday's statement by the Serbian Ministry of Interior, or are these officers instructed? In fact, is this attack not only on Nikola Seselj, but above all, on his father Vojislav Seselj, because you know very well that Vojislav Seselj has been in a very delicate health condition for almost two months? He has a constant high blood pressure, tachycardia and arrhythmia, and he signed written consent a few days ago to have Dutch doctors perform a surgical intervention for him. You can think as parents, as people, what kind of medical condition will Vojislav Seselj be when he hears, and he's already heard of the information that a group of cops beat up his son? What's scandalous, and I really have to point out, is a statement from the police union, namely a certain Velko Mijailovic, the president of the police union, who says -- that the cops didn't beat anyone up, that they intervened in a mass fight, and that Nikola Seselj wasn't injured in an alleged fight with cops, but he took out a certificate of injuries at a private clinic and that all of this was done in order to transfer responsibility to a police officer. The president of the police union, in a way, disavowed the MUP, which announced yesterday, that a group of five police officers had already been suspended because of serious violations of official duty. This statement by the MUP is correct and we welcome the decision of the MUP, to suspend the police officers who have committed this brutal act, but what we ask of the Ministry and what we ask of the Government is to explain to us whether it is an isolated incident or whether it is a deliberate organized beating of Nikola Seselj, in order to inflict a heavy blow on Vojislav Seselj, his father? It is scandalous that at the beginning of the 21st century in RS anyone can be brutally beaten. What falls into the eyes is that the beatings of Nikola Seselj were involved by police officers who, apparently, had no great and professional and life experience. Slobodan Lukovic is 27 years old, Srdjan Kozbasic is 27, Željko Drobnjak is 25 years old, certain Marko Mačić is 20 years old, Vladimir Pavkovic is 30, and their boss Zivko Šijački is 44 years old. So, I repeat once again the question for the government and the question for the MUP – do they have any knowledge of whether these officers are politically instructed and whether all this has happened with Nikola Seselj has a political background, with the ultimate intention of inflicting a serious human blow, a health blow, a moral blow to SRS President Vojislav Seselj, who has been in the detention unit of The Hague tribunal for almost eight years now, and is just solemnly proving the truth about Serbia and the Serbian people?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45856	The word has a letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45857	Your Honor, I'm asking the president of the National Assembly because there's obviously been an abuse of this institution's question. Namely, the organisation of a collective security agreement, whose assembly was held in St. Petersburg, is an organisation that has never sent a letter to Serbia, according to my information, to Serbia in any way access to this organisation, and I ask that all MPs be informed about it. So, as an observer, as a member, etc. We are not a member of that organization, and therefore it is impossible and it is not true, nor is it correct to represent here that there is some kind of boycott that the delegation that was invited goes to that rally. There is no delegation, nor is there an invitation addressed to any delegation representing the Serbian Assembly at the meeting. It is that the president, in his name, was invited to attend the meeting, if he could as a guest. As parliamentary groups have come to call, as representatives of their parties to come and go to the rally, that is the question I am also asking for an answer. In fact, the way this topic is being manipulated now, the only result it achieves, is an attempt to bring the government in this country into a situation in which it is hostile to Russia. There is no doubt that the foreign-political priority of this government, among other things, is to develop good relations with Russia, and, despite the efforts made by some not to do so and to imagine that this government does not want good co-operation with Russia, this co-operation is taking place in the best possible way, in the interests of this country and the citizens of both the country and the other. It's an organization made up of Russia and six former members of the Soviet Union. Never has this congregation received any official invitation to appoint a delegation or call for participation in these delegations. I really find it inadmissible that someone, trying to deal with party opponents, is causing the country inconceivable damage, corrupting Serbia's relations with an extremely important strategic partner like Russia. I think we're going to have to take, in some ways, a serious debate on how this institution's asking questions is being misused, in order to send messages that can drastically corrupt Serbia's position in international relations. I believe that no one, regardless of what belongs to any political party, can be put in a way that will harm Serbian citizens, only to find some public opportunity to deal with the government and this ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45858	Do any of the other representatives or authorised representatives want to ask for an explanation or an explanation? Yeah. ) National MP Jovan Damjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago there was a group of Roma from Kosovo from the village of Priluje. I just want to point out some events that are not in the interest of respecting the human rights of minorities, especially the Roma community, or democratisation of our country. Emini Dzem's father from Prilužje worked at the "Vuk Karadzic" elementary school in Prilužje and retired as a responsible worker. His son Emini Gemma, who worked for a year, was admitted to his place. After that, there was a contest where he was promised that he would be accepted, where he worked on all the tasks and obligations as a man, to do what he needed to do. However, a relative of the director, a man who has six children, does not work anywhere, has lost his job. I wonder if in our democratic society this way can be applied to a population that is on the lowest margins? We all know that here in this House we have passed many laws that are in the interest of the Roma community and their rights. I appeal and ask the state to participate more effectively in society, social and economic development of the Roma people. This process must be supported regionally, especially at local level. At the local level, we have the biggest problems. The Roma community is still marginalised, which undermines respect for their human rights and prevents their integration into society, as well as all their rights voted in this House. I will especially write a letter to the President-in-Office of the Assembly and let this matter be resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45860	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45861	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again I want to ask one question that I have repeatedly asked in Parliament and I have not yet received an adequate answer to that question. I asked Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic a question when he was present here whether the job with Nuba Invest is regulated, is he as prime minister behind it, does he justify that no tender and tender documentation was needed, is it justified that the company that invested 3,000 euros in Serbia, registered, without one employee, without anyone, gets such a big job in Serbia to follow the 10 corridors with optical cables and who did this, although the competent director refused to sign and under duress signed by some other people? Everyone who made that statement said it was illegal and it couldn't end that way. Did Minister Dulic commit a crime? Did the prosecution take certain measures according to the law of this case? The second question I asked the prime minister, and I haven't been able to answer that question for two months -- who has authorized the deputy defender of the Republic of Serbia to declare on behalf of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the actions of "Yugobanke" in "Zagrebska Banka" in Serbia are not interested and who has given the order to transfer these actions to private accounts under codes and whose accounts are under which the money that was simply transferred after the privatisation of Zagreb Banka? I repeat, have certain legal measures been taken against the deputy defence attorneys of the Republic of Serbia who did so, who authorised it, which were the funds and where they are now, and did the "Yugobank", which was in bankruptcy, benefit from the "Zagrebska Banka" whose founder was? Therefore, I would ask Mr Cvetkovic to answer these two questions that are extremely significant and that he simply delivers the answer within the legal time limit, although he has not done so so far? I will repeat this question until I get an answer from the Secretary-General, then the Minister of Finance, and today the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45862	Would any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups like to request an explanation or clarification on the basis of Article 286(2)? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the groups are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the meetings were prevented from being attended by MPs Dejan Radenkovic and National MP of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, in addition to the representative of Proposor Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Verica Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, called for the meeting to attend: Nebojsa Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Sladjana Backović, Director of the Fund for Development of the Republic of Serbia, Vidoje Jevremović, Director of the Sector at the National Employment Service, Tatjana Prijic and Vera Rovcanin, Head of Department of Economy and Regional Development, Nenad Ilic and Zora Ilic, Advisors of Economy and Regional Development Minister of the Republic, Irena Milosevic Pajić, Assistant in the Chamber of Minister for the National Investment Plan and Lidija Smyjanić, adviser at the Agency for Insurance and Finance of Serbia. We're continuing our work. We move to a common principle search of the 11-14th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TURISM LAW, THE LAW ON TRAINING AND FUNDING OF THE IMPLEMENTATION CASE, THE LAW ON THE AGENCY OF THE OBLIGATION AND FINISHING THE EXPORTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE LAW ON THE FUND FOR THE RURAL SERBIA SERBIA SERBIA SERBIA PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE COMMUNITY TO MAKE A COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY A COMMUNITY TO A COMMON PRITION ON THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE REQUIREVAL SOURS AND THE REQUIREVAL OF THE REQUIREVALS AND THE REVAL OF THE REVALS AND OF THE REVALATION OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERVALS AND OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERVALS AND OF THE SERVEAL OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERCATION OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERVES AND OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERVEALS AND OF THE SERVEAL The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliament group of SRS - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group of G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group of DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; Parliament group of SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group of New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of the Parliament groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I also inform you that according to these points of the daily redistributive group, the following MPs will be: MP Đuro Peric's PUPS; MP Natasa Micic's MP group LDP; MP Milan Nikolic, MEP SPS - JS; MP Arsen Đuric's MP, DSS - Vojislav Kostunica; MP Borislav Pelevic, MP, Serbia and MP Zoran Krasic's SRS. I ask all other parliamentary groups, if they have decisions on authorised representatives to deliver them for the purpose of informing the MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tourism, the Proposal for a Law amending the Employment and Insurance Act for Unemployment, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for Development of the Republic of Serbia. Before I ask if the word "proposer representatives" is wanted, I am informing the National Assembly on the basis of Articles 90, paragraph 2, and Article 87, that today's morning session will last until 15.00 hours, when the usual one-hour break will be set, so from 15.00 to 16.00 hours, and that from 16.00 to 19.00 hours we will be working on the basis of Article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that is, with the presence of a representative of the Government, time reserved for MPs' matters. At 19.00 we will end the work for today and will continue to work by session which is currently the topic of our work on Tuesday, November 2nd. Does the representatives of the promoter, the National Investment Plan Minister, Verica Kalanovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of four economic laws, more specifically for an area that treats employment, tourism, insurance and export financing, export and support for small and medium-sized enterprises through amendments and additions to the Development Fund Act. As a practice in the previous period, economic laws must provide answers to the current moment, for the moment in which the Serbian economy is located, measures and incentives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, based on facts, based on indicators that we have on the territory of the whole of Serbia, but also on the forecasting of possible effects or problems in their functioning. This is the goal of today's laws, to adequately respond to the current moment in which the economy is located in Serbia. Before I start talking about laws, let me repeat something that is often heard from both the media and information and other broadcasts from electronic media, about facts that are often reported as alarming to the public, but also about something that is a statistical representation of Serbia at the moment. Without specifically commenting on the data, let me just read a few of the most important. The demographic discharge course provided by the Republic Statistics Institute by 30 years, from 1971 to 2007, says that the population gap in 1971 compared to 2007 in Žabari is 47%, in Sreljag by 40%, in Beli Palanca by 38.5%, in Kursumlia by 37%, in Bojnik by 35.5%, in Knjižec, Knic, Petrovac and Golubac by 35%. At the same time, in Belgrade, the population increased by 33%, in Novi Sad by 54.5%, in Stari Pazova by 65.5%. If we look at the unemployment rate at the moment, in Belgrade at the Sava Wreath, that rate is 2.5%, in the Old Town 3.8%, on Vjerar 6.7%. If we look at the unemployment rate in Vlad's Han - 52%, in Major 54%, in White Palanca 58%, in Leban 60.5%. If we look at what it looks like in the regions, we see that there is 13.5% in the region of Belgrade. I want to say immediately what I mean by the region. Under the region, I mean those statistical regions that we adopted under the Regional Development Act. In the Vojvodina region – 27.4%, in the forest and western Serbia region – 31%, in the region of southern and eastern Serbia – 32.5%. What is an indicator of this situation, or what is due to this situation, salaries in different parts of Serbia and different municipalities are significantly different. Compared to the average of the Republic of Serbia, in Vladic's Han, wages are 47% lower, in Kursumlia by 48%, in the White Palanca by 58%, in Lajkovic by 36%, in the city of Belgrade by 24%. If we look at what is caused by a large number of unemployed and smaller salaries, as the number of enterprises and shops on 1,000 inhabitants looks like, in Belgrade, we have 64 small and medium-sized enterprises or active companies. In the Vojvodina region – 44.5%, in Šumadija and western Serbia 41.7% and in southern and eastern Serbia 33.7%. It does not take much reason to determine what the situation is at the moment in Serbia. On the one hand, we have a very small number of small and medium-sized enterprises, a large number of unemployed and huge regional differences. It is clear that it is a process that has caused these disturbances in the Serbian economy several decades ago, but also the responsibility and obligation of both these governments and at this moment in front of the Serbian citizens of this ministry to actively enter into the process of resolving this major problem in the degree of underdevelopment of various parts of Serbia, municipalities and cities and people living there. That is why all of these four laws are related to the deconcentration of institutions dealing with economic issues. We know very well that the process of balancing regional differences and the degree of development in different parts of Serbia will not be short or easy, that decentration will not mean equality in the degree of development, nor the current rise of standards, but it is a significant measure of the government to bring institutions closer to where it is most needed. To have the headquarters of the Development Fund defined in the largest city in southern and eastern Serbia, which currently has the smallest number of small and medium-sized enterprises per 1,000 inhabitants, it is Nis, that small and medium-sized enterprises are encouraged, educated, assisted by the institutions of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development in its direction of further establishment, development and business. The law also provides for other parts of Serbia, according to criteria to be established by the Statute and approved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the establishment of branches that will speed up the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and help them function. Also, deconcentration applies to the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports and Amendments and Supplements The laws are related in one part and to the change of headquarters from Belgrade to Užica. It is very important that in a region that has 13% of Serbia's total exports, we have an institution that will, among other things, deal with improving exports and export branches in the Republic of Serbia. In the third law, the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, the National Employment Service is scheduled to transfer to the city of Kragujevac from Belgrade and to be one of the institutions in Šumadia, which has a large number of unemployed people, to the door of those who need the job most. When I was talking about the current moment, I was also thinking about the current moment of the development of Shumadia and Pomorava, the arrival of the "Fiyat" and the components and the large number of jobs that will be in front of the National Employment Service, along with all the jobs it does, besides the service of those whose job is most needed, and these are unemployed. I spoke in principle about one of the common things that binds these four laws, which is the deconcentration of institutions from the national level to cities in Serbia. Užica – Export insurance and financing agency, Nis – headquarters of the Development Fund and in Kragujevac – National Employment Service. The amendments and additions to these laws include some more of the things that are currently responding to the economic situation in which Serbia is located. For this reason, in the next part, I will talk about each law individually, about the basic objectives and concepts for which amendments and additions of laws are linked, and of course, when we talk about details and changes that are related to each member individually. What is the second basic reason why the amendments to the Development Fund Act are before you? Under current law, in practice so far, the Development Fund has financed exclusively private-owned enterprises. He's been behind us for ten years. Many companies have changed their ownership status. From social backgrounds, some have moved on to private property, some have gone from private property to state property, and we have witnessed every day that privatisations, which in Serbia have shown different degrees of performance, today and in new models are being solved to get people to work and to live from their work. The Development Fund has had, in the past, a rough word, but a function that did not involve the support of state-owned enterprises. But if we look at Serbia's companies today, regardless of their ownership status, whether it's hundred percent private stock companies with some other form of property or whether it's state-owned, we can divide them into successful and unsuccessful, those who are willing to get caught today, provide work for their people and continue to work, not to fire workers, and those who unfortunately are not. Those who today have the opportunity to work in Serbia, get the state's support to provide permanent craft through loans or guarantees, maintain the number of employees and hire new people should have the same chance. The second objective of this law is to give equal opportunities to companies in private property and state-owned enterprises. When it comes to social property, the Development Fund will not finance the majority-owned social enterprises, but in those cases where there are below 40% of the social property in enterprises and these companies will be able to be supported through the Fund's credits for development. The third change is the change that relates to the raising of the Fund's capital, therefore, from 5m euros to 10m euros, the challenges facing the Fund today require that the Fund be a respectable financial house, that the Fund represents a significant partner in front of business banks and therefore it is necessary for the value of the capital to be as significant as the house's rating would be. When it comes to the Law on Funding and Insurance of Exports, another significant newspaper related to changes and additions is one flaw that was seen in the previous period by the Law on the Agency for Finance and Export Insurance of the Republic of Serbia. As is known, the financing of export insurance is related to those companies, those economic operators which are designated for export. In the current period, financing and insurance were related to the foreign market. The paper is that insurance and financing of exports through this law is also linked to domestic market transactions, which are related to companies operating on the domestic market in the value of export business. It is something that is in line with world practice and it is something that will allow businesses to operate in the direction of their liquidity, their competitiveness on the demanding market. Our proposal is to regulate this through amendments and additions to the law. When it comes to the Employment Act, the only change that is envisioned in this case is the change of seats from Belgrade to Kragujevac. The fourth amendment to the law is related to the amendment and addition of the Tourism Act. As I was just saying in statistics, I'm going to say at this point what were the basic reasons for the amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. If you look at the revenue generated from the 2007-2010 tourist offer, it is evident that in 2009, Serbia recorded an increase in overnight stays of foreign guests at a time when all European countries had a decline, but that the decline in foreign revenues continued in 2010. For the first eight months, the total inflow is 9% lower than the previous period. In one such situation, the response of the restoring ministry was to encourage competition, i.e. to expand the range of potential providers of tourist services. The Law on Associations, which was adopted in May 2009, created the conditions for other entities to carry out economic activities in the field of tourism, and therefore provides for the introduction of other operators as opposed to those defined by the Tourism Act. These entities we are talking about are equated to the rights and obligations with those that have been regulated by legislation so far. What is also the subject of this change and addition, is what is the intensity of the tourism sector in the forward ministry from the first moment, which is that whoever receives the services of tourist entities means the one who uses tourist services is placed at the centre of attention. And guarantees for one such relationship are constantly increasing, providing in all areas that appear in practice as necessary, and changes and additions at this time increase guarantees in terms of tourist service users, on the other hand increasing the demand for travel agency licenses. Guarantees relate to insolvency and travel guarantees for damages. The newspaper according to tourist agencies is to tighten the conditions for obtaining a license, by being stricter criteria with those persons who had participated in the establishment or capital of travel organisers who had already taken away the licence. If we ask a question as to how far the amendments and additions of the Tourism Act will take, in which direction guarantees will be increased towards users, or tourists, in increasing the level of criteria for tourism organisations, they will go all the way to when they appear in practice innovative models of tourism organisations to organise travel to harm or with insufficient guarantees from those who use their services. Finally, the amendments and additions of the Tourism Act deal with both those areas and technical clarifications of those areas that were not sufficiently reflected in the Tourism Act, as the practice has shown. These are areas of rural tourism, nautical tourism and hunting tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the amendments to the economic law have never been disputed for this House. They were not controversial because they correspond to the current moment in which Serbia is located. With a number of innovative measures and incentives, they improve the environment in which economic operators operate. Employment and the growth of the standards of those working in these economic operators are in favour of all citizens of Serbia. I hope that your creative and constructive discussion will only contribute to improving these changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45864	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, MP Dejan Nikolic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45865	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, last week was held a session of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, and I thank the representatives of the ministry who participated in the meeting of this committee, but besides the representatives of the ministry were present also representatives of professional associations, associations of spas and associations of specialised health institutions, who could in direct communication and talks with ministry representatives and MPs to present their vision of the amendments and addition of the Law on Tourism and to directly influence its changes, which is the basis of democracy and parliamentaryism. As for the amendments and the addition of the Tourism Act itself, the criticisms will come for the difolt, there's no doubt about it, but I have to say something similar to what I was saying yesterday. When you do not have a far-reaching tourism development strategy for 20, 30 or 40 years, when you do not have investment in tourism-related infrastructure, when destination management did not even exist as a term, when you have such a picture of tourism development, then it reduces the power of critical words that is referred to those who want to solve and tourism on their feet, as it is in far-developed countries. We're lucky to be in Europe, it's the most developed tourist region in the world, with over 400 million tourists a year, with over $230 billion in annual income. Out of the EU's total number of employees, 12% comes from tourism. Tourism has a strong impact on the balance of payments of the state, on employment, on investment activities. These are good tools to stimulate economic development. However, in addition, as you said, a good tool for the days of the economic crisis, which is enough for me to be motivated by the great involvement of the state, but also by all of us in encouraging its development. This is what I'm saying and I'm pointing to the conglomerate and the importance of tourism, but also that we have a big job ahead of us. Co-dwelling deals with tourism for 175 years, but there are so many potentials to be developed. I see it as one of my great obligations, a commitment for responsibility to my fellow citizens who live on tourism and who deal with tourism. The Committee supported amendments to the Tourism Act. I also call on other MPs to support changes and additions, with sincere and strong hope that the ministry will have understanding of the very meaningful amendments coming from professional associations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45866	Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Industry, the People's MP Milorad Buha, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint review of the application, submitted all parliamentary groups. Before that, I ask if the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word. Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45867	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although the Tourism Act, which was passed last 2009 as explained, is a system-regulated area of tourism, we are still facing the fact that changes and additions of the Tourism Act must be made relatively quickly. It is noted that this proposal came as a result of an analysis of the situation in the tourist market, of the problems facing tourism operators, tourist agencies, hosts, persons providing services in tourism, tourist guides, tourist escorts, rent agencies. The applicable law introduced for the first time the tourism register, which, apart from the registration of tourist agencies, also keeps records of all legal and physical persons engaged in tourist activity. In the light of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, it is stressed that it is necessary to regulate more precisely the provisions concerning the tourism register, which have already proved to be unclear in practice. There is an impression, and not only in this case, that laws that have just been passed and applied for one or two years must be changed very quickly. There's obviously something wrong. According to some reports, almost all ministries have nearly 20% of the laws we passed a year or two ago, which must be complemented and amended. It's obviously a bad practice. It could be concluded that individual inadequate and unprofessional solutions are being proposed in these laws, as nothing more important or more sensitive has happened and changed in areas that regulate. Finally, this shows that we have an extremely large number of amendments to the bill's proposals, most of which are rejected, in order to overcome new solutions after a year or two, almost identical or similar to previously submitted amendments. The tourism law is what is popularly said to be the roof law for all segments of the tourism economy. Therefore, the analysis of the proposed amendments to the law is quite smut and principled, so that no valid conclusion can be drawn from it, that is, all proposed amendments. This is particularly relevant to economic analysis because, for example, new proposals provide for an increase in costs for economic operators, costs for categorising facilities, which are carried out by hosts, payment of registration fees, records and other services provided by the tourism register. On what basis, for example, is it estimated that travel organisers will have the cost of 1500 to 2000 euros per year to obtain a prescribed travel guarantee? Since the Law on Tourism, as we have said, system law, is necessary, in the opinion of the PUPS parliamentary group, to do a quality and content analysis of the effects of regulations, the more the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is the largest supporter and protagonist of comprehensive regulation reform, which is for every praise, and whose most significant segment is precisely an analysis of the effects of the regulations. Before submitting this proposal to amend and supplement the Tourism Act, the applicable law is burdened by a large number of different regulations. I think there's over 20 of them. However, these amendments provide for new rules that, in our opinion, will burden this law even more. There is also the impression that a number of proposed solutions to the practical return of certain provisions of the 2005 Tourism Law, so that it can be concluded that it was not fully seen and understood the functioning and way of business of the tourism economy, but in some cases it was done untested and unfounded experimentation, which is recognised by this amendment in some segments. For example, Article 21, Article 28, i.e. Article 60a and Article 68 of the applicable law. It is good to find that the adoption of this act creates a legal framework, I would say something expands, for the successful and efficient management of tourism development, ensuring compliance with the provisions of other regulations, recommendations from the Trade Organisation Council and the EU Association Office, as well as the more precise definition of provisions concerning ensuring greater protection of tourism users. In this respect, it is a good addition to the law in Article 1 in principle, where the ethical code is added to the tourism of the UN World Tourism Organisation, which includes, among other things, principles relating to the contribution of tourism to mutual understanding and respect between peoples and society. I would particularly like to point out that this session of the Assembly is on the agenda and the proposal for a law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020, which we discussed yesterday. In the proposal for this law there is also a chapter – the spatial development of tourism and the relationship to protection. There are a number of findings that should comply with this law and other tourism regulations. For example, it states that the offer of the Republic of Serbia lacks more diverse tourism products that could attract foreign demand, especially on a cultural and ecological issue; then, that the lack of an affirmative concept of sustainable tourism and its integration with complementary economic activities and economic and cultural heritage, particularly with regard to cultural use of presentations and the financing of the protection of goods by tourism. The quantity of services is said to be low, especially not harmonised prices and quality in the part of the offer due to the low competitiveness of the tourism economy. It is critical to note that social content of tourism, concrete recreation and sport have been neglected. The organisation of content and functionally rounded and regionally integrated offers, it claims, is yet to be seen in certain destinations and this situation points to the need for the affirmation of the tourism development plan. It is also argued that there is not enough coordination mechanism between the tourist organisations of the Republic, the provinces and local tourist organisations, although I do not think that it is true, as far as I am aware, that the statistical monitoring of tourism in the Republic of Serbia is incomplete, because it is estimated to register up to 70% of traffic and that more than 30% belongs to the gray economy. These are all, in the opinion of the PUPS parliamentary group, very large issues and should be the focus of the complete tourist structure. I would also stick to some concrete, but with regard to regulatoryly significant proposals. For example, this is the case with the business of tourist agencies, where, among other things, it is predicted that the travel agency, if it performs its activity outside the seat, is obliged to educate a branch, i.e. outside the business seat, which is registered in the relevant register and registered in the tourism register in each business space. These are undeniable good solutions. It is also good that agencies can organise and implement travel of students and students abroad, to learn a foreign language and improve, with the possibility of performing business and occasional jobs. The conditions for issuing licences have been completely changed. He was changed in general and a former member of 53rd in connection with the guarantee of travel. Only here is the question of which way and by which basic criteria are prescribed the type and conditions of the guarantee of travel, the mode of activation, as well as other conditions. There are no criteria under the law under which the minister will adopt the rules and whether he will comply with the law governing the area of insurance. As for Article 20, which is amended by Article 60 of the valid Tourism Act, there are indeed very serious objections by the Association of specialised health institutions for the prevention of disability and rehabilitation, which have been very concerned about the fate of their members, special rehabilitation hospitals or, as we popularly call it, the RH centres. First of all, it reacts because there is a difference between health institutions, which violates the basic principles of the Health Protection Act. The above-mentioned changes to the healthcare institution in which the stay is organised and provided services of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, which are atypical budget users, remain the only ones who, for the purpose of providing accommodation and nutrition services in the part of their capacities, must have the consent of the minister, because the economic operators who have, for example, resorts, homes and other facilities for the provision of accommodation and nutrition services to their employees are exempt from the obligations of the minister's consent. It is argued from these institutions that it is clear and clear that the proposal to separate these changes and additions of the Tourism Act from other catering operators, but remains unclear and unknown reasons for this and the objectives that these amendments aim to achieve. This is so much more incomprehensible when it comes to the fact that the founder of these institutions - the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia has given consent to the hospitality of the Health Protection Act, Article 113(2), as well as to the acceptance of the statutes of these institutions. Serbia's special rehabilitation hospitals have about 7,000 beds, of which the use of three and a half thousand beds is negotiated with the Republic Health Insurance Institute, while the other half are forced to offer the market to survive. It should be noted that hospital places in these institutions, which are on the market, are used to provide healthcare because patients are treated for their costs, with a doctor’s advice or recommendation. The Republic Health Care Institute pays only a sick day from 1900 to 2930 dinars per day to special rehabilitation hospitals, and it is impossible to cover all current costs with that price. At the market price paid by patients treated for their own expense, it is earned to cover the costs and improve the conditions of accommodation. So these institutions don't get funding from the budget for profits, utility, medical appliances, investment maintenance and other costs, which distinguishes them from other health institutions. This way, as proposed in the Bill on Changes and Supplements to the Tourism Act, clearly unfair competition is created on the health tourism and medical rehabilitation market. It should be borne in mind and the fact that, by definition of the European Bane Association, health tourism is the only thing that can be dealt with by medical and professionally trained institutions. So, without medicine, there's no spa, in the traditional sense of words, because you know what the name "baja" means, it's always going to health. This is the result and attitude of the centuries-old experience of today's most developed countries of Europe. As for the new text in Article 20. The draft law, as it appears, has submitted an amendment and inserted a new position 3 which reads: "Services to third parties of the health institution referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this article can be provided if they meet technical, economic, market and other conditions". Also added is the new position of the 6th member, which reads: "The government is closer to prescribing the conditions laid down in Article 3." This amendment eases the possibility of personal subjectivism, but based on everything that happens in Banja tourism and the Republic of Croatia's centres, it seems best to remain only the position of 1st member of the bill. It is absurd, for example, that the Minister's decision gives approval to provide accommodation and nutrition services with a one-year period of validity. And that's where we've given the amendment, and we'll talk about it when there's a debate in detail. Finally, I would say that the paper is also a proposal for a whole new text in former Article 117 that regulates the keeping of the tourism register and, I think, much better and more precisely regulates what is recorded in the tourism register. We hope that some of the amendments submitted will be accepted, and the PUPS parliamentary group will vote on the draft law on that basis, and in the voting day. The PUPS Group will also vote in favour of the draft law amending the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, as well as the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Insurance and Financing Development Agency of the Republic of Serbia and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45868	13 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time have been used. The People's Messenger, Bajram Omeragic, has the word, and Natasa Micic, the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45869	Dear Vice-President, Honorable Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I finished the presentation by our esteemed writer Duško Radovic, who said that in communism we will all live in Belgrade, and today I begin the presentation by the Minister of Finance in the Government of France in the 50s who said, asking his government to adopt a set of measures that will improve and balance the former economic development of France – if we do not balance, we will have Paris and the desert. That's what he said 60 years ago. We actually have a situation now, as the minister here has read statistics, that we have a demographic situation that our villages are disappearing, that people are moving from the province to Belgrade and a few other centres, and that if such a trend continues, we will simply come into a situation to endanger the poor even development that exists in this country, or we will not improve it by concentrating more than 60% of the population or 70% in a few centres in Serbia. As far as employment is concerned, as a member of the Bosniak list from Novi Pazar, I just want to say that the figures and statistics that come from this city are really worrying because close to 26,000 people are unemployed in Novi Pazar. When it is taken and compared to the fact that New Market in our country has almost the youngest population, we come up with one African data on the share of the young population in employment. That is why we believe that the state must do something to stop this trend, because this trend has an economic trend, but unfortunately there are also political consequences that are evident in our region. The minister mentioned here the dislocation of many institutions that are essential to economic development. I'm just saying, if luck were one of those institutions would be in Novi Pazar, which would cover that region of Sandzak, that more would be done in this region to stop these negative trends and simply stop this vicious circle, not the cycle of viciosus that has ruled for decades, that we simply can't get out of this vicious cycle of underdevelopment and economic backlog. Otherwise, speaking many times in this assembly, I do not belong to a group of MPs who advocate some kind of economic state interventionism. However, if America is doing so, saving the City Bank and J&P Morgan and other financial institutions, if Angela Merkel deals with the Opel for months and months, if most governments in the world today, given that the major economic crisis puts the topic of private companies from their territory as a topic in the agenda of their governments, I am just welcoming this law that will make it possible for the Development Fund to give state-owned companies credits and I just know that Simpo was a user, has mixed capital, has been a beneficiary of the Development Fund, and once economic intervention has improved employment in the municipality of Kursumli. I therefore call on the citizens of Sandzak to take all these companies from the territory of RS, since foreign investments do not exist in Sandzak, to take advantage of this opportunity which we will now get from these amendments and the additions of the law and to move one part of their production or their services to Sandzak and thus send a good message, a "good message" to the Sandzak citizens that the state has not forgotten them. This kind of interventionism that happens in different periods, we are witnessing today, so I call on the Ministry of Economy to invest just as we did on the Old Mountain in tourist facilities, to apply the same model to Golia. Let me remind you, just 17 minutes car ride from the centre of Novi Pazar you are at 1.740 meters in Golia. While I'm talking here, today there are children, tens of thousands of young people, the action is called "The School of Nature", they are on the Bath, on Zlatibor, on Divchibara, on Tara, on other mountains, and we greatly appreciate that our children from Sandzak meet these mountains, but it's abnormal, irrational that children from Chačka, from Piroth, from Kragujevac don't come to Goli in "The School of Nature". We have great tourist potentials, but because of the underdevelopment of infrastructure they remain dead, they simply cannot give their economic effect. We hope that this information that came yesterday, which I would like to welcome, is that the finance and NIP ministries are negotiating these days with Turkish companies Colin, Jupsel and Makiola on building a Belgrade-Bar highway. I think that this process should be accelerated and supported by our representatives who are negotiating to end this process and, far be it, that we do not end the negotiation process when we have had one concession that has failed. The road ends in Bolar on RS territory, and when it comes out there, it will have 15 minutes to go to the first ski track by the top of Golia. Whether we have the capacity for this tourism, Euronews and CNN announced 15 days ago that we have a minus 3 degree temperature in Sjenica, and we invest millions and millions of euros in buying machines for artificial snow in other parts of Serbia. The Sandzak citizens welcome this amendment and the addition of the Development Fund law and I must say that the Development Fund has done a lot for small and medium-sized enterprises in Sandzak, but given the budget of the Development Fund and the strategic objective set by our prime minister in those ten objectives, it writes – re-industrisation. Re-industrialisation with 130m euros of the Development Fund's budget is practically impossible. If we were to ask more importantly, we would propose and propose that this Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia enter at least a few hundred million more into the Development Fund, and that the Development Fund move into Serbia's Development Bank, no less than the one that Vojvodina did. We are pleased that the Vojvodina Development Bank was formed, and I think it is a very good move, but it is necessary that we also get a Serbian Development Bank. Our government is there by subsidies and by supporting the reduction of interest in commercial banks where our economy has done a lot, but it is not enough, since commercial banks today give as much as one and a half to two at the monthly level of credit. These are loans that were called in the Middle Ages, you have those in Max Webber's book called "Employment and Society." So, the interest rates are negatively characterized even in the Middle Ages. This kind of credit we have on our market and high interest is justified by the great risk on our market, but if you follow the data, the report of these banks since 2000, the greater their risk in this country, their revenues are increasing. The banks must share the fate of this society. Today's data says this - everyone is poor, only banks are rich, which is totally illogical. What kind of society is this where banks are rich and citizens are poor? Therefore, it is another message why we need to get a development bank and if there is a sale of Telecom, of course for a good and adequate price, we suggest that a few hundred million from that figure be invested in Serbia's development bank, that we get favourable credits for our businesses and that this cycle of re-industrization goes the best way possible. With loans offered today by our commercial banks, so-called It's just not possible. Let me remind you that there is a bank in BiH, not to mention its name, marked as such, and a special profit tax is introduced in Croatia that is made by banks. It's not an accident, I wouldn't be here saying how much interest there is in Switzerland, how much interest for companies in the UK and France. If we are going towards the European Union, we must also put our banks in order that this business risk here, which was ten years old, is actually reduced in this way and that the interest reduction, so that the economic cycle begins, because without that economic cycle, we will not have increased employment. What's very important to us in Sandzak, which is that as far as employment is concerned, let's make another move, which is that the companies that have so-called. know how, which have worked for 25 years, we have a case to close them, and the Development Fund for the same actions gives new businesses credits. We need to give new loans, but we need to do more so that those who work don't close. You have information from Novi Pazar that three textile companies that hired 450 people are working around Beijing today. The businessman told me this – today the second economic power on the planet Earth leads this kind of economic policy with foreign investors. He went to the president of the municipality. They moved into a factory they got free of charge, left by a Dutch firm. The meeting lasted five minutes. He congratulated our businessmen for coming to hire 450 Chinese. He told them next -- gentlemen, our employee's salary is $75 here. They're all women's sexes. For the next four years, please pay regular wages to these people and these women. I'll see you in four years. These are your obligations to the state of China, and in four years we will discuss taxes, contributions and all the other taxes you have on the state of China. That's what the second world economic power does. The Bosniak List and I will vote for this law, but please once again, let's do what we do on the Old Mountain and in Golia, what we do in Kragujevac with 400 million in Novi Pazar, what we do in Vranje, and in Tutin, what we do in many other parts of Serbia should be applied in Sandzak, because as Vensan Dežer said in an interview last week for "Blic" – we gave the state of Serbia ten billion dollars and five billion credits. We've never received a report in this House on how many of those 15 billion went to Sandzak. Sandzak has another big reason, and this is also an unstable political situation. I think that in this process of bringing the EU closer to us, this process requires regional development to be of paramount importance. I welcome all the moves our government has made in that field, but we have to pay a little more attention to Sandzak, given that by the degree of foreign investment at the beginning, because letters and numbers, there is no investment of this type. Mr Pajtic had a statement in Novi Sad the day before yesterday at the fair that 68,000 people in Vojvodina received a job from foreign investment, which is six billion and eight hundred million dollars. Sandzak citizens are extremely pleased to have it in Vojvodina, that there is a development bank in Vojvodina, that all parts of Serbia are financed, but please pay attention to this most underdeveloped part of Serbia, given that there are accumulated economic, social and political problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45870	The 16-minute deputy president of the parliamentary group has been used. The word is a folk letter from Natasa Micic, followed by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, I think it would be far better, given that it is economic laws, or economic laws, that you have provided us with more information, analysis. Probably every firm, every company that applies for a loan to the Development Fund delivers some reports, analyses, plans, business plans, and we're adopting the law here, and you've read us some statistics. Every home council when it makes some economic decisions discusses and puts some arguments on paper, economic indicators. They don't have to be charts and pies, but I'm asking you in the future when we're discussing it, because it's very important for this country, that we get adequate data so that this economy can really develop. Secondly, I would like to ask if Minister Dinkic is in the government, who is not present today, and these are the laws of his ministry, and to remind you, he was not present last time, since, I remember, I was with you on these laws. I don't know what it is every time that it can't even come to parliament? He can't discuss some laws, he can't come one day. Five hours here is where this debate takes place. What's so much more than defending the law in parliament? It's really incomprehensible. Since you're in the government too, I'm curious, and it's useful for everyone to hear if anyone in the government has any objections to the drafts of these laws? You may have had better suggestions, so you've been ruined in the government, or this is how we pass the laws. The MPs here are humiliated, they have blank resignations, except for the LDP parliamentary group that doesn't have it, and in the government ministers have blank support and then what laws we pass, plus without any arguments, without any data. Here, read us some statistics, some of this demographic, employment. There are serious problems, and we all know that. But let's talk about what's common, since you started that too, these laws, except in the area of the economy, for which the Ministry of Economy, Regional Development, whose Minister Mladjan Dinkic, is absent again in parliament. First of all, this is not about comprehensive proposals, but it's all about changes and additions that we did last year, all four laws, which is about the quality of those laws that we adopted last year, that is, about their century, a short century, or even better, short breath. All four laws, and employment, and growth of development, and exports are burning topics, what interests these citizens most. Wherever I go to Serbia, they all say the main problem is unemployment, underdevelopment, growth, development, but it's interesting to even mention tourism and always as an exit, some possibility, some chance they see in this tourism. Someone has given them false hope that without infrastructure, especially tourism infrastructure, tourism can develop. Now we've been listening to Bajram say -- here, and my Golia there, I'm from Sandzak, wherever you go, no matter where you go, Negotin, Vranje, Priboj, everyone has. People are left with naked lives and naked nature. How to develop tourism without infrastructure, except for our tourist offer to be that transport and tourist infrastructure represent infrastructure, so that we can charge the foreigners fat, so that we can go back to what Dobrica Cosic says, the reverse is our advantage. I guess we're going around about it, I don't know what else. What else is in common with these laws? The changes are not essential, they are only secondary, marketing and somewhat, especially in this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act are to remove some shortcomings. All four proposals offer far fewer answers, and they raise much more questions, and topics are very important. Now I would like to remain on the first draft of the law, amendments and additions to the Tourism Act, which we adopted last year. Understandably and justifiable to say that the reason for these changes and additions is that there have been some shortages in practice. Secondly, the Law on Infringements was passed, then the Consumers Act. These are the two provisions that needed to be changed in this Tourism Act, but I would understand that there are several provisions, 10 let's say, but 67 amendments and additions to the Law that we passed last year, which means more than half, because there was no discussion either, we didn't get any specific analysis, data, then we would adopt a more quality law. In these great failures, starting with the principle, you failed in the previous law to apply to the UN's ethical code. We forgot we're part of the world. What kind of international organizations are we in, and now we're lost, we've forgotten that we're members of the UN? Then the concepts, you had to redefine the concepts, that the travel agency could, in addition to companies and business entrepreneurs, that this activity could be performed by legal persons, you dropped it. You've dropped that hospitality can also be performed by physical persons. It's not tiny mistakes. Watch this - our tourism. It's a nice country, really, but on the other hand we have to be aware that we don't have the sea, we don't have Disneyland, we don't have golf courses, we don't have the Eiffel Tower, we have the mountains beautiful, we have the lakes, we have the meadows, we have the ski resorts, we have the spas. In that small list of our tourist offers you dropped rural tourism. In the previous law, you dropped the country-tourism household and catering facility in your home work. It is also missed that the travel organizer can perform the tasks of organising and implementing the travel of students and students to learn foreign language and professional training, but also to carry out temporary and occasional jobs. I don't understand how one such item could have been dropped in the previous law. Since there's a lot of laws and a little time, I'll tell you that you've done a lot of things, 67 provisions in a year. That's amazing. This is also humiliating to the Messengers of the people. What kind of relationship is that? Do not come again until you have prepared the laws and until you have prepared materials that we can discuss better. In the Register of Tourism, you forgot, this is how it stands – the previous legal solution was left out to provide for data records on tourist organisations, tourist space managers and tourist animators. How could it have been left out? You've left out even tourist animators to get licenses. You also wrote this – the authorities of tourist inspectors are being extended to check the truthfulness of categorization of catering facilities. I'm asking you, since you missed it, and the law is in force for a year and something, then who's been doing a review of that categorization and who's doing damage to poorly applicable and inapplicable laws? I'm glad you fixed it, I guess it'll be better now. It seems to me that it is now more complete, more quality, that it is more comprehensive, that there will be fewer problems in application, but tell Minister Dinkic that for the previous Tourism Act he has received a clean unit because he has now submitted 67 amendments and additions, and so has the parliamentary majority, which is even sadder. You could've suggested, the minister would've accepted your suggestions, but what we're going to do is we don't have enough and we're on our own. I'm going to talk a little bit about the Development Fund now. Last year we talked about the need to build a development bank, not this Development Fund. That Development Fund is instead of the NIP. What's the general good, what's the result of the NIP, something that's good for the whole country? Since you're out of work, you've come here to represent Dinkic. So, the development bank where the deposits would be grouped, the businessmen, but the funds from pre-accession funds, donations. Isn't that more economically healthy? That would be more transparent. The main objection to this Development Fund is intransparency. The Development Fund reports four times a year to the economy ministry, Mr Dinkic, and he is the chairman of the Management Board. It's now moving to Nis, although I don't know what you're getting. Are you saying that this region, from Nis, has not developed small and medium-sized enterprises or in general economy because Belgrade is far away, because the Nish Development Fund is three hours away? Mrs. Kalanovic, you left it out to say, you didn't just move the seat, but in the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law, you predict that you will open the branches. This is not enough administration, you're increasing the administration, and you're talking about guillotine regulations and red tape. You'll probably be hiring your staff. I'm gonna see who's gonna be in those branches and those seats. Not to mention that you've had malfeasance at the Development Fund, nine people have been arrested from the Fund, and now you're going to be building branches. Who's gonna control that? All Dinkic -- as chairman of the Management Board, as Minister of Economy, as Deputy Prime Minister. That's really unserious. Here's how this Fund works. Please answer me. Mrs. Kalanovic, I see that I am more upset than you are as someone who receives criticism than someone who brings them out. Well, that's sad, too. Please explain to me about Bor, since there were elections in June in Bora. In late April, you gave one project, 120 million won. On June 17th, 66 projects were given by the Development Fund, 122.350,000 dinars to maintain the 70s and around 230 to create new jobs, which means 300 and some people times by another two or three members of the household, 1,000 votes. How come a few days before the elections, Boru approves 66 projects. Because I watched the board of directors' session, I watched it, and I just walked into the eyes of 66 projects, in one day just for Bor, and a campaign. Isn't that vote buying? Are you buying votes for your party with our money, all of us and MPs and citizens? Is that okay, Mrs. Kalanovic? I don't know how to ask. And then how are the parties financed? That's how they finance themselves. Here are these from the transparency of Serbia and let everyone hear how the parties are financed. The Development Fund should not submit a report, means only Minister Dinkic as chairman of the board of directors as minister, but should be directly subordinated to the DRI. I think the DRI should keep an eye on the development fund, because I'm not sure, and last year I was telling you about an institution's audit report, it was called BDO BC Excel, which abstained from thinking, which was negative and which found huge shortcomings, and disagreement, lack of commission contracts, and that's their basic way of doing business and disagreement in activity and passive, and all sorts of things. Now I see you've changed the auditory house. Of the thirty audit houses, the second "Diloit" is now, although I have read the report, and these people have grudges and are abstentions. They're holding on to them based on your internal report. They also say that no financial instruments have been applied, recognition and measurement, disclosure, that there is a discrepancy between your assets and passports on the commission's affairs. You know what else is interesting? Please explain it to me. I'm very interested in that. The Development Fund had an obligation under the Profit Tax Act to free itself from paying taxes on profits. So he doesn't pay taxes on profits. So you have indirect budgets, all the citizens' money. You decide how to invest, who you help. You're still taking interest for that, and you don't pay a profit tax. You should've asked the Ministry's consent to be exempt from that tax. You didn't do it, you asked for it, but you didn't get it. You have a 1994 license given to you by Slobodan Milosevic and based on that permit, on that tax exemption from profits and day and day, that's how you work. You asked for a release, but you didn't win. I mean, you in the government can't, and how can someone else, say, do what other citizens do when one Development Fund can't, for God's sake, get that tax exemption license? Because I probably, I don't know, I don't have enough data, but it's probably not right that you're exempt from profit tax. That Development Fund. Now I'd like to say a brief word about the insurance agency. Export financing is being relocated. You're saying it's a deconcentration. It has nothing to do with regional development, or decentralisation, anything at all. It's just another distraction. You're reopening new branches and what now? The seats will be in Uzica, but that's why you're opening branches? Nothing, a little attention to the Uzziah for the bad Regional Development Act, but nothing got much with it. There is an argument, Užice is one of the few cities, and there are few such cities that have surpluses in exports. You said yourself it's 13% of total exports, right? Let's say -- when you move that agency out there, you're going to make branches, and that's a special story, but I really don't get it for Kragujevac. By what criteria is he, let's say this for the ropes, but how is Kragujevac? For example, I wouldn't be surprised if it were Zajcar, if it were Bor, if it were Ratche, or whatever, but how exactly is the Kragujevac? What's the argument? Because the unemployment rate is 16.6%? The Kragujevac doesn't have much higher or much lower. I don't know why he's not a Grainian. I'm just curious because we don't have any reports. We have two sentences - moving to Kragujevac and nothing more. And being high-level unemployment is nothing. That's amazing. I only have one minute left, I'd just like to say about this employment. It is simply an important foreign investment, but it is much more important to free employers from new jobs. So give them some relief. The LDP has proposed an economic programme that we have outlined, and we have not received an answer from either the minister or from you. That's the way. Another way is also to invest in education. Why don't you make a suggestion like that? Why don't you sit down with Zarko Obradovic and let's see for requalification and qualification? Germany is like the first measure of the crisis it has done, the first measure, invested 12 billion euros in education. Not to be distributed to educators. After two months, she invested another 12 billion euros. 24 billion euros were invested in education. The EU has adopted a directive to raise the level of highly educated to 40% by 2020. We're at 7% and moving the National Service to Kragujevac. I guess your Vladimir Ilic is no longer the director. Okay, now a man doesn't have to travel to Kragujevac and move. But what do we get with it, except a few jobs in Kragujevac are going to open? There are employment services and there are branches. I mean nothing. Why don't we move the MUP to Valjevo and the former police minister, we could, not a bad proposal? It's just, it's all very unserious. In principle, we support these changes and additions to the tourism law, and we support the fund in no way. Let me just say one more thing, the development fund, speaking of Europe, you wrote that it is not applicable at all to comply with the SAA, with EU norms, is not applicable because there are no regulations in Europe that have such quasicudo as that development fund. Of course he's not variable. I think we need to change, too. It is not only Europe's access to European funds, and it is not just money, but standards, above all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45872	Twenty minutes, thank you. The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45873	Dear MPs, of course I can tax you all the questions you've asked. I simply defend laws from an economic field that have nothing to do with either the personal or the party, or any institutional ties to the one who proposes the law, the institutions to which it relates, the money being placed, with what you're talking about. I'll hold on to two answers. The first one is related to the Development Fund, around which there is incredible mysticism in your parliamentary group. Simply, if you had once opened a website of the Development Fund and read in detail everything in it, you would have seen that the Minister of Economy and Regional Development is only the chairman of the Management Board, which has five other members from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Trade and Services and the Minister without portfolio for sustainable economic development. The approval of loans to economic operators shall take place two degrees before it comes to meetings of the Management Board. This means detailed consideration and evaluation by the Development Fund management. Behind that, the commission, which is also being considered by each subject and if there is any uncertainty in the matter of granting the loan, is asking for further explanations from the services doing the job. In the Development Fund, there are professionals, who are neither from the party I belong to, nor from the party in particular, where politics is not discussed, which is confirmed by all those who are users of the Fund, which are businessmen. I call on you to participate together with the Minister of Economy in a tribune with businessmen and to hear that those for whom the fund was founded say in your presence what their experiences are and what services the Development Fund provides them. I attended a large number of these stands and I almost didn't hear an objection to the work of the Development Fund, except for the observation that there is not enough money in Serbia like the Development Fund, which would provide all the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises and users of the Fund for what they place money for, and these are mostly investments and permanent crafts. I don't think it's appropriate, and if we look at the math a little bit, you say 66 loans are approved with 122 million. To be honest, I don't know how many loans are granted in Bora, but let me remind you what this is about. Two years ago, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development launched a "start-ap" loan programme, as Serbia needs new blood. You need new small and medium-sized enterprises and there are wonderful examples, it's close to you, you're, as far as I know, from Užica and it's close to Ariel, so look, from the "start-ap" loan, there's a family company that employs 33 workers today and deals with textile production. So, "start-ap" loans are those loans that identify themselves to beginners, with certain guarantees, to open new businesses. These loans are a maximum of 30,000 euros, and if you divide these two numbers, you will see that in Bor, all of them are "start-ap" on average worth two million dinars. Fortunately for us, a large number of young people have appeared in Serbia who have shown not only interest, but a great enthusiasm for the opening of their own businesses, to encourage and assist by the state, among other things, from professional services that work both at the Development Fund, both at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and at the National Agency for Regional Development. These people have largely applied to all the competitions the ministry has announced so far. It's a few thousand applications, of which in all the cities in Serbia, and I've done detailed analysis, I guess your data is correct, 66 of them were from Bor. But let me remind you of one more thing. You're talking about abuses of the Development Fund, and you haven't told the public who the abuses of those who applied for "start-ap" loans, and then used them to buy cars, started because of several cases on the ground, which he came up with just from the work of the Regional Development Agency. I'm Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Check that Mladjan Dinkic has launched and reported those who abuse funds defined for "start-ap" loans. There's no question about what you want to do, and that's the correlation between politics and the Development Fund. There is no policy here, no matter what you want to present it to the citizens of Serbia at the moment. I still assure you that the Fund for Development is the strongest institution, fully suited to certain pillars of development banks in Europe, which deal with funding for small and medium-sized enterprises, with almost identical programmes and criteria. And it's not true that he's a surrogate and he doesn't exist, because if you look at one of the biggest development banks, it's the German Development Bank, it has a part that deals with small and medium-sized enterprises, almost analogous to the Development Fund. So if you look at the benefits of the Development Fund brought to the businesses and businesses of Serbia, then you will see that what you are talking about today has no basis in practice. As far as tourism is concerned, as far as infrastructure is concerned in tourism, you remember perfectly that when we defended the Regional Development Act we were just talking about concentration and what I called compatibility, but now I would say the coherence of infrastructure development with master plans and with tourism potentials. I remember very well that at that time you had great objections to investing in the infrastructure in Mokro Gora and Zlatibor, and at that moment we had in mind those tens of thousands of people who visited these two tourist destinations this summer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45874	Right on line, two minutes, Natasa Micic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45875	This was just like being a lawyer, like Young Dinkic's defense. You didn't say that other ministers were sitting in the Development Fund, you just said that he was the chairman of the board of directors. Okay, I'm not, but he is the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Development Fund and Minister of Economy and Point. What do we have here to do about it? Now we should praise him – he started it and found some abuse and he started it. So what? Isn't that normal? We don't need each of us whenever he sees some abuse, and he's still a minister, and in such important places, we absolutely don't understand what kind of praise it is, as he discovered? Then who will? I can't find out. What am I going to go there for the Development Fund and the Ministry of Economy? Now we need to praise him for finding out. He needs to find out more maybe. No one says anything about these people, professionals, because I absolutely don't know and I can't say. You can't tell me it has nothing to do with the party state, with the formation of a party, with the United Regions of Serbia. You say you don't know how much in Bora. I'll tell you, since I've been reading it all night on the board of directors' boards of the Development Fund. When you weren't ready, I was ready. You gave Bora at the end of April for one project of 120 million, and then 17 June for 66 projects, for 300 jobs, 122 million and 350 thousand. Now, look at this, cake cream, you gave Bora a 980 grant and a few million at the time of the campaign. I just forgot to tell you, or I can't make it, I would have told you anything. RTB Bor. Right then, and before that, you've been giving them nothing for months. I'm sorry, that's what's causing the suspicion. Maybe I'm wrong, but I'm a direct bearer of the list. Please explain that to me. I allow myself to sin, but I think it's important that we know, that it's not good because it's not just your means and it's not just your decisions. You have to answer to someone for those decisions. (President: Two minutes. It's called mysticism. You're making mystics because it's a non-transparent business of the Development Fund, and I'm all that's been found on this Fund's work and it's not satisfactory. Please, just one more sentence. Of course there are happy people. Some people really got credits because they deserved it, upside down, and if it didn't exist, but there'd be more or they'd get more money if you worked more transparently and respected all the financial instruments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45876	The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45877	Honorable representatives of the government, minister, respected fellow MPs, before I say a few words about the amendments and additions to the laws that are on the agenda today, I would just like to allow my dear colleague, Mladjan Dinkic, president of the Board of Directors of the Development Fund by function. No, before you begin to explain to me, you will tell me that it was acting as then Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic, for example, the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Veterinary Institute? What did he have to do with the Veterinary Authority? The Minister of Economy and Regional Development is acting as Chairman of the Management Board of the Development Fund. Is there anything weird about that? There's only you. No one else finds these things strange. The second thing, I absolutely agree with you that the DRI, that we need to hire her a little more, to set her up in public enterprises, to set her up at the Development Fund, but she will also go to political parties. The state audit institution, under the new law on the financing of political parties, will control party reports, will no longer be able to control ourselves, that we are all bound by some vow of silence, that it is not spoken of. I sincerely hope, since I was in the Law Working Group, that the law will come into assembly procedure at the most recent time, that we will adopt it, and then we will see how it is financed. As for Bora and linking to the financing of the United Regions of Serbia, I can only say that anyone who loses can be angry. We've so financed, we've won 25%. Your problem is that you found a group of citizens, that you and Radmil Gerr went to the Bor elections, couldn't win at all. If we hadn't won as many votes as we have, wouldn't the difference be from the second-placed 7%? That might be a close victory. This is how difference and victory is pure as tears. And now and the other day, your fellow MP was talking about Bor. Why is this Bor bothering you so much? We've shown we can win. And I want you to win everywhere in Serbia, wherever you can, without any problems, because I look forward to your victories and the crossings of the census, because I know that we are at work together, as much as you talk about Dinkic, and here we are also getting ready for Mrs Pesic. Talk freely, point to problems, but don't talk about things that don't stand. It's like he chose to be chairman of the Development Fund Management Board. No, he was put there. If he could choose, he'd probably choose something else that brings him multiparty and other benefits. Let's get back to what we're here for today. It is three amendments to the law, conditionally said, to the law on institutions, to employment and insurance in the event of unemployment, to the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports, and to amendments to the Law on the Development Fund. Since the Minister explained the changes that have been made besides the change in the seat, I would like to say that what you mentioned in Zaječar, that the National Agency for Regional Development has already been moved to Zaječar, that its headquarters is in the same Zajecar, but that is why we did not have to change the Law on Regional Development, because there is no seat in the law itself. Since these laws and funds were laid down by law, only through change and addition can we change that seat. Otherwise, for the future, I don't think it's good to put in the laws where the seats are going to be, but that it can be arranged by the internal act of the agency or the fund itself, which is by some sublegal act, as it was done in the case of the transfer of the Central Agency for Regional Development. We also talked about this here that Serbia needs decentralisation and regionalisation, but it is necessary to start and deconcentrate. Decentration is one form of decentralisation and is not the only one. There are more devolutions, and this deconcentration is a form of decentralisation, however, is not its essence. Plans to dislocate the four institutions from Belgrade have a certain symbolism. How anyone sees that symbolism, and I see it the next way. The Central National Employment Service is moving to Kragujevac, a city that has experienced economic progress after the arrival of the Fiat, but also the city that was named the city of the future in 2007, the best host in Serbia and which received a certificate in 2008 as a good business association, one of the three cities in Serbia that received it, unfortunately, only three cities, but we hope that next year there will be more cities in Serbia and that every place in Serbia will become a good environment. We all know that without providing good conditions for investors, we cannot move forward, no matter how many institutions move across Serbia. Secondly, the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance is moving to Užice, you are both right and Minister, Užice is an exporting city, 13% of Serbian exports come from Užica because of copper, aluminum, military equipment. It is logical that the exporting agency is based in Uzica. The Development Fund is symbolically going to Nis. Why? Because Nis is just one of the cities affected by the economic crisis, a city where there are no small or medium-sized enterprises, there has recently been no investment, and eight contracts with South Korean and other investors have been signed, a city where the unemployment rate is almost 30%. Why was Zaječar elected as the seat of the National Regional Development Agency? Just as an example of a devastated city not even investors come to because of a weak infrastructure and a weak road connection to Corridor 10. I sincerely hope that this is just the beginning of the Belgrade institution's migration towards all parts of Serbia, and I am sure that this, and the next government that will be, will work to ensure that exactly the agencies that would be logical for them to be out of Belgrade, will be deployed internally. For example, the newly established Agrarian Payments Authority at the Ministry of Agriculture is now located in Sabac. Of course, there is also an initiative that has come from G 17 plus and which does not have a party mark, but will be accepted by the province authorities, that part of the Nova Sad Secretariat will be transferred to other parts of Vojvodina. For the first time, the agricultural secretariats, parts of the public enterprises "Vode Vojvodina", "Vojvodinasum", agencies and institutions that are yet to be established, mean that the primary goal of all this is to bring the institutions closer to the citizens and the state to every citizen's houses, but not just in its purest form, but through the migration of institutions, agencies and funds and the approximation of service users. These reasons for moving should be economic, because institutions should not be concentrated in one centre, they should not be everything in Belgrade, and I, as someone who comes from Belgrade, can say it freely without being accused of rooting for my place, that I am now going to ask that some institution move to a city. No, I'm from Belgrade, I live in Serbia, but I want Serbia to live outside Belgrade. The data we heard, not only from the minister, but from what we all know, that Serbia is emptying out and shutting down, and that everyone is moving to Belgrade, is not responding to Serbia as a state or to the city where I live. I hope there's no dispute about that. In the importance of this dislocation of the positioning of the institution should not always be doubted, it should be encouraged, because the migration of these centrals will give support and incentives to the environments in those who are moving, and the environments are getting affirmation, institutions become generators of various content. Neither costs should be ignored, four to five times lower costs of renting rooms, which are other accompanying costs than one institution has in Belgrade. Belgrade has the most expensive business space, mostly the majority of these institutions and others I have talked about renting and paying huge rent costs. There will be an increase in local employment, and I cannot know in advance which party someone will be employed from. I guess the locals will get a job, there'll be all the parties, I guess the ones who need a job and the ones who know something. I guess the time will come to defeat the knowledge of party membership. I may be a utopian, but I honestly believe that. I think I agree with many of you. As I said, deconcentration is one form of decentralisation, but it has mostly administrative significance and it only alleviates the centralist arrangement of a unitary state. What Serbia needs is essential decentralisation and regionalisation. By sticking to the experiences of developed countries, it is undeniable that we should adopt the view that a larger unit is not entrusted with what a smaller unit can do, that what can be done in the neighbourhood should not be transferred to the municipality level, what can be done in the municipality should not be transferred to regional level, what can be done in the region should not be transferred to the level of central authorities. If we believe that principle, then there will be no obstacles to Serbia becoming both a decentralised and regionalised state in which all its citizens will have the chance and the possibility to organise and unite locally and regionally, because good governance is possible only at close range, and far from the centre can only be ruled. We do not want Serbia to be ruled, we want Serbia to be well managed. For that reason, we will support the amendments to these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45878	12 minutes and 40 seconds have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. Right on the line, National MP Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45879	First of all, Mrs Grubjesic, I really appreciate you very much from the G17 parliamentary group, because you have the courage, you have talked about Srebrenica and at all, as if you are not G17, you are also talking about politics, but this time you are absolutely wrong. First of all, you're not even well informed. Cedomir Jovanovic was never president of the Veterinary Institute, under one. Two, I have a slight feeling that Mladjan Dinkic would not choose the Veterinary Institute but rather like this Development Fund. The third thing, Mladjan Dinkic is in office, so a law has been passed that prepared his ministry, and in this Law on the Development Fund, he is acting as chairman of the board of directors. So he could easily get rid of that burden. He didn't have to be the chairman of the Development Fund Management Board. On the contrary, he suggested, he took that responsibility, and that's why I'm talking like this today. As for our results in Bora... I'm sorry, Minister, I'm speaking to MPs. It's not nice. As for our results in Boro, we won 7% and we are absolutely satisfied with that. Do you know why, Mrs. Grubeshic? Because it's 7% pure people, without spending a few taxpayers. We really did it by working, by policy, not by buying votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45880	Right on line, MP Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45881	I apologize, I was not precise, Cedomir Jovanovic was the president of the tender commission in privatising the Veterinary Institute. Just to remind you, at least you know, you participated in who led the Management Board of the Development Fund, first Zoran Djindjic, then Aleksandar Vlahovic, then Predrag Bubalo. It was in their job description to do it. It's a function performed without compensation. Whether it is Mladjan Dinkic or Mirko Cvetkovic, it is irrelevant, but simply by function that position is taken and carried out without compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45882	The word is Natasa Micic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45883	So, it's true that it's by function, by law, I'm just saying, in this way he could be freed, but I've never heard of it, and I've had the opportunity to have more insight into the data than you did then, that Zoran Djindjic used anything or that any doubts were open because he was the chairman of the Development Fund Board. Just to tell you, no one was saving it, it's been criminalized in this country, every piece of shit could have written, without any responsibility, that he was a criminal. I can think that he's made some kind of irregularity in the Development Fund as much as it'd be knocked up. But there's another problem here. I have my suspicions here. I may be wrong, I repeat it a hundred times, but simply doubt is expressed. I can and will. I feel free to express it. I think we understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45884	Minister Verica Kalanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45885	The MP works, who does not know, and the public works, the Development Fund represents an institution that provides significant measures and encourages the development of economic operators. Given that economic operators fall within the area of the economy, the Development Fund Act provides for the competent minister to be the chairman of the board of directors. This is not disputed and it is completely irrelevant at this time who were all economic ministers and who would be the future ministers in whose jurisdiction would be the Development Fund and the chairman of the board of directors. I simply want to remind once again that the economy in this country must be managed by measures and incentives, that the government must, through certain programmes, stimulate the economy, help economic operators, approve certain subsidies or low-interest loans, in order to ensure, not only a more favourable economic environment, but also increase employment and increase competitiveness. I pray that because of one very important institution, we do not wave on the Development Fund as a political tool, because it is essentially not, and that we do not diminish its significance. It would be upside down if any man could fund the Development Fund to point to a river that suits him. It's not possible and it's good that it's not possible, and everyone who's ever used the Fund for Development knows that. Just because the site says who it is and when it gets credits that a 100-million-dollar loan has arrived in Bor, we took Bor as a case, but also in Belgrade, Zrenjanin, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Vranja, in Ariel even, here I have the data, three loans for the first six months, and it is good that it is approved, let's not tie it to elections, to politics, to groups of citizens and to political parties. That's not true, it doesn't stand and really offends all those who work in the Fund and those who use the Fund's resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45886	The word has been made by MP Velimir Ilic, president of the parliamentary group, and then by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45887	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I am extremely disappointed today when we are discussing these four laws and when we cannot see the Prime Minister who represents the Government and who is in the material that we have authorized the government to discuss with the MPs today. Why is Mr Dinkic running from parliament? Why must Mr Dinkic never come to the parliament, which has chosen him, to lay down accounts for his work, for the macroeconomic policy he is leading, for the Fund for Development which leads, for the tourism he leads, for the employment he leads, for the resolutions that are simply key resolutions in this country? He must never come to parliament, he sends Mrs. Kalanovic. Mrs Kalanovic is the NIP minister. I don't see why we have any reason to discuss tourism with Mrs Kalanovic, what do we have about the Development Fund, when Mr Dinkic and the Chairman of the Management Board of the Development Fund, which is abnormal, when we have a thousand problems in the Development Fund that have brought this country where they have brought it, when it takes someone to explain here why so many people from the Development Fund have been arrested? How was the Development Fund working? Who'd he take the bills to? I ask the Minister not to laugh, it is not polite, I address you no matter what, but it is your turn to listen to the MP, not to disturb the order in the O.R., and I expect the chairman to warn you. Be a little polite, though you don't belong here today, but while you're sitting, be polite.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45888	National MP, please, without direct address and with a focus on your exposure, the conduct of all participants in the session... National MP, you are under obligation to listen to the chairman's warning. So, please treat all the other participants on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and leave your attention to the respect of the Rules of Procedure of the Chairman, it is her job, and you concentrate on your exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45889	Madam Chairman, this is the 100th time you've interrupted and violated the Rules of Procedure. You're laughing with a minister who, you can see well, I think the MPs have seen, laughing like she's at a party.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45890	People's MP, I'm warning you now in the manner of treatment. Laughing or smiling is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, that was even voted in this assembly, since one MP asked to vote on whether I was violating the Rules of Procedure because I was smiling. The laughter is desirable, and yours and the minister, and I most kindly ask you to concentrate on your exposure, your rights will not be reduced or damaged, but leave the measures, if necessary, to the other participants of the session, the chairman, since this is my job. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45891	Okay, everybody does their job. The one watching will be the best judge in this story. I think the court has ruled, and the court of the people is a very good court and I believe in it. So I'm going to go back to my job and the subject I want to talk to you about today. I am very sorry that the minister is not allowed to come here, to present his opening statement and to listen to the MPs. I am very sorry that tourism has experienced a major crisis in recent years. I am extremely sorry that tourism has invested for years, and this year it is being invested, and that some projects, after seeing that there is no interest in a particular party in this area and in this investment, are leaving work. We remember how much investment we had in Divcibare, in the infrastructure that was supposed to encourage the development of tourism, that the road of Valjevo – Bogdanović’s hill, Mininica – Bogdanović’s hill, Divnci – Mininica, Mininica – Ljig and a number of other projects, projecting, trafostations, cableways and everything else, and then the hands of everything and Divcibara are no longer mentioned. It's the same with Golia. The road from Novi Pazar to Golia is invested in infrastructure, an extremely large investment, and then everything cares. A similar story is with the Old Mountain, the Black Summit of Bor, the great investment of previous governments, everything is abandoned, everything is in the weeds, everything is destroyed. A similar story is also with the Josian spa, a walled hotel that is falling apart, there are no further activities, only a little in Sokobanja, a colleague here said, after Djelic bought it, since he and the brother of the late Badža, the police minister, were the owners. I'm sure someone from the government was interested in that, so it seems a little bit. Why is he hiding that the Deputy Prime Minister is one of the owners? There's something he's trying to do. It's abnormal to adopt the Tourism Act every year, it's unusual to talk every year that something needs legal improvement, and nothing is done on the ground. Thus, Mr Dinkic attached tourism and ripped it from the store, which has functioned for years as a single continent, took it up by counting on it to make a good campaign, but burned itself and did almost nothing. Fully disregarded religious tourism, fully ignored tourism related to certain health services. Many foreigners come to our dentists, use certain facilities that are intended for this, come to various treatments, etc., and nothing is done. The story of rural tourism is a story for small children. What's in it for? He only invests with party activists G17 plus and nowhere else. Where has something been done in rural tourism been done specifically without being a member or activist G17 plus? Activities in tourism are entirely party and are entirely party investment. That's what the Development Fund is up to. Let's not run away from that story. It invests in lame facilities that are being built across Serbia, in objects that do not need this Serbia, which are now completely missed investments. Why? Because someone there is an activist, a supporter, and a group that controls the RS Development Fund completely. I remember when Jura came to Rač, New Serbia had the president of the municipality, we exercised power there. The condition was for G17 to come to the region, the regional centre, if they think the investment is going. That was pressuring. Just smile, you did it yourself, and you made it happen. What did you do? You've ruined Ratche, you'll destroy the factory, you'll ruin everything. You've ruined Kragujevac. You are now moving the Employment Centre to Kragujevac and today we are changing the law to move the agency to Kragujevac. What do we get? Kragujevac is the city that has the most unemployed. The project, which was made with the Fiat, has hired thousands of people so far, and total investment since the start of the Fijat project has been 700m euros. How much is a job in the flag? Now what will those who are unemployed in Serbia come to Kragujevac to share with them pain and grief, because Kragujevac is the city where the most unemployed are? That's where you bring Jura and you tell stories. This Jura has grown to your heart. I don't know what's wrong with Yura, you and Nis, you all promise: Yura, Yura will take out Serbia. Your minister, who was to sit in this House today and face the MPs, opens two or three factories every day, as far as I can see, but I don't see that employment, I don't see those factories working. They're just opening up, rushing, breathing out of the car, opening up the factory, running after two hours into second place, opening up the factory, third factory. Are you out of your mind? What factories? Where did you open it to work, how many people did you hire today? I'm asking you that question. How much from the Development Fund has been invested in the promotion of exports, how much have you exported this year, how much have you exported, how many companies are working for you, how many people have you hired, and how much have you fired by introducing the company into bankruptcy, etc? Do you believe you buried a giant? You didn't want to give him from the Fund for Development of several million dinars, "Freedom Cachak", a white technique, to pay 5,000 euros per worker to come "Gorenje" to open a new factory, etc. And did you know that Freedom was a pioneer in white technology in Southeast Europe? That the largest exporter in Russia was the white market in large Yugoslavia? And you completely shut it down because you didn't give anything. Why? He wasn't your manager, he didn't want to come to your party. You said no further and you shut down a factory that has a tradition, which the leader was in white technology, to pay the foreigners to come and work and now you'll see for yourself. Instead of forcing the processing of agricultural products that were large exporters on the Russian market, you will not be able to let the Budimka from Požega, "Serbian woman" Valjevo, Vladic's Han function, etc. You've destroyed the factories, the companies. Do you believe that six hundred acres of fruit in the area of Leskovci means it's completely destroyed because you didn't want to give them the incentive to move? Did you know that the cherry plantations remained completely destroyed, unguarded, unworked, all of it failed and that's misery and misery now in the weeds? Go and look at the largest farms, the largest plantations that were in South Serbia, Vučje, and see what you've done and what's there now, parlogus, weeds, misery and misfortune. Now you're moving the Regional Development Center to Nis. What will you help Nisha, will you help El? You've held macroeconomic policy for years, you run this country's economy for years, you run the NB for years, you run finance, you run the Development Fund for years, you run the National Investment Programme for years. Your score is zero, and Serbia is here because it's what you do and what you look at and what you do. Therefore, come to your senses and come to your senses. Not when the election comes to be more fugitive, my dear. Then I like to see you and hear you. So don't think that one city is satisfied if you come and let an alley be done and you destroy a factory of 7,000 workers. Gentlemen, you've driven out of the old flag 7,000 workers, and today it's 1,000. Your results in Nis, take the MIN, take your privatisation that you've been running for years, how you did it, how you did it. The other day I was in Žitoraj, not one factory works. What happened to the factories you hinted at, the ones you promised? What factories in Belgrade are they doing to you? Do you have a solution for Rakovic, for the first spark of Barich, do you have a solution for a series of companies that disappeared simply, for Magnohra in the King, who was a giant and a great exporter? You have no solution, your wrong policy has completely destroyed it. You're still doing that job and you're running it, you're still changing some laws, you're still selling us a colorful lie here, moving centers to Zajecar. Why? You found a great leader in Zajecar, Bosko Nicic. He's so important to Eastern Serbia. So, are you thinking about the consequences of what you're doing? You will bring Bosko Nicic on your feet and all of Serbia will now go to Bosko, he is all important, very important. Do you know who Bosko Nicic is? The same failed officer as the one in Loznica, as many others you've activated. If you're going to get a man involved, it's enough that he had some position, that he was a little out in public, you hang him up right now. With Verko Stevanović you destroyed Kragujevac, your wrong politics. You've made a lot of money, and there's misery and misery. People live in accidents, there's no work, there's no work, there's nothing to do. You've destroyed the whole forest, the agriculture, the economy. What's he doing in the woods? You've destroyed the development of the entire Forest. What did you do south of Danube and Sava? It's just the Orlovac cemetery, Madam Minister, and this is where I was building as a minister, and that's where the rest came from. Move a little, don't just wait to sell to Telekom. You're just saying, when we sell Telekom, you'll do everything in the spring. It's been three construction seasons and nothing's done, three construction seasons you missed, four highways you announced, I listened to myself. How many have you done so far, how many miles of highway have you done? It's not gonna happen. How much money has been spent, where is the money from the sale of Mobtel, I've asked in this House a hundred times, from the sale of Robing Houses, from the sale of the third operator in telecommunications? You found Schlaff, so you transferred Schlaff from the sale and sold him the VIP, transferred him 70m euros more than the VIP's worth. You bought him a bookie, a casino, and went in with your activists in the big business. Mr. Schlaff destroyed part of Serbia because he came here with great recommendations from Solana. I remember the great meeting when he was brought here as a great hope for Serbia to start her economy. What did you do? For God's sake, he gave Karic 300 million. Ask Karic, why don't you let Karic come to Serbia to defend himself, to say everything? He had a contract, but he didn't pay. You gave him about 360 million from the sale of Mobtel, you paid off one of his companies outside of Serbia, and then you sold him the VIP for 300 million, so you bought him another 70 million and sold him a third operator in free telecommunications. So you introduced Nub's investment and free of charge to work the optics on corridor 10, free of tender with 3,000 euros in invested capital in Serbia, 3,000 euros. It's nowhere to be found. So it's enough to sell a horn instead of a candle. Now you've done a big job, moving the fund center that's completely empty into another city, moving the Employment Service empty and robbed. Everything was sold in the privatization that was good and that could be sold. What was done in Serbia, how many people were employed, how much was obtained from the privatisation of large Serbian companies? You participated, not me, in the sale of cement stores and so many banks. Take Zagrebačka banka and share of Jugobanka in the founding fund of Zagrebačka banka. It's a gift. I have a document where the defender of the Republic of Serbia and his deputy are forced to sign that Serbia is giving up rights in Zagreb's bank, which are extremely large, and the signature stands. I can give it to you, Madam Minister. Whoever ordered it has to answer. And it's transferred to private accounts that are coded. We cannot come to ask – whose accounts are they, who is all co-owner of these companies, who is co-owner with the Schlaff in casinos that are open in Serbia? Why did you give him bookies, casinos, all of it alive, so much for you, the Schlaff grew to your heart, and you sold him a third operator for our money from Mobtel? When the trial begins, if God will, Karic, it will all be cleared up. That's why you're afraid Karic will come to Serbia, then tell the story and bring the document. Let him go if you're brave enough to defend himself from freedom, let him bring the papers, let him answer, bring the papers, and let him see what this government is about. So you have a lot of problems. That's why the minister can't come to this parliament. Your minister signed the concession and found a financial and legal advisor, ma'am. Ma'am, and you criticized the concession and said the price was too high. I now inform you that Mr Dinkic, as finance minister, was in charge of the financial management of the concession, that he had given consent to the concession, that he had chosen a financial adviser, a firm from Washington, that he had proposed to the government who accepted it, that this parliament had accepted all of this and voted and simply moved towards realisation. Afterwards, you promised to make your own highway, that you didn't need a concession, and then you accused me of being guilty. I was a technical person who performed project and technical documentation. Your minister says there's no project documentation, and you're just smiling. How is it possible to be an international tender without project documentation? That's all I'm asking. Do you know, when an international tender is launched and large giants, such as Vinci, such as Bujik, such as Strabag, etc., is it possible to be a tender internationally and to be covered by banks and that the ministries give consent, and the Ministry of Finance, that the financial adviser, technical and legal advisers give consent and that parliament agree that there is no documentation, how is it possible without the project to call an international tender? Is that possible? Now I ask you, do you work the Batocina-Kragujevac road with project documentation? You don't have any paper, you don't have an idea project. You didn't have the moment you performed and paid for your work. How could you choose a contractor without a project documentation? How could you choose an artist without a tender documentation? Was it a tender, ma'am? Was there a tender now through Vojvodina? A free deal with Chummet and the company. You sat down at the table and you made a free deal, so let's make a deal. Is that possible and is that democracy with you? Is it possible that it's still done somewhere else? Think about exporting a little bit, about hiring. The ruling coalition is required to provide work for a working-age population, if it is capable. If he's not, he has to leave. It's a fundamental and workable man who goes to work so he has to live with his family. People can't pay for electricity, they can't survive, and it's a big problem that you can't meet and you don't want to. That's why certain ministers are always running away from parliament and chasing you, not guilty or due, here to explain to you here, and you have nothing to do with this. Mr. Dinkic here needs to sit down, come. He knows exactly what the government was up to. I know, and there are records, and don't say stupid things, that the roads owed, that it wasn't paid. Dinkic did not fulfil obligations under the Budget Law, which was adopted in this parliament. (President: 20 minutes. ) That is why you approved the loan. I'm not bleeding you because you weren't involved. I did, and Minister Cvetkovic did, and Dinkic did, and that's why he needs me to say it, not to you. To you, I've never worked with you before, nor have we ever met in business and talked about a job. I don't have anything to do with you, but I have a lot of objections to Mr Dinkic, and that's why I wanted to distract him.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45892	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45893	The answers to your questions are easy, although it is very difficult to follow, because with this number of untrues it is very difficult to face. I'll try to keep some things systematic by group and let's first answer the question of where the money from the "Mobtel" was spent. As you know, on 4 April 2006, between the government of the Republic of Serbia, the public company PTT traffic, "BK Trade D.O.O., and the company that represented the mentioned Mr. Schlaf "Holdenhurst Holding ltd." The way and procedure of future sale of 100% of the company's capital "Mobi 063", although the state owned 70%, and the company owns 30%. If you remember, then a border is agreed over which Serbia will sell 100% of the "Mobtel" action to achieve a higher price. That line was a billion and a hundred million. If you remember, the initial value for the sale of Moby 063 was 800m euros and in the part between 800m and 100m Slaf could, but did not have to, sell his shares, and over a billion and 100 had to. At a public auction held on August 31st, just to see when it was July 30th, a price of 1 billion and 513m euros was reached. The privatisation, according to all and political analysts and economists, and positions and opposition, was the best privatisation in Serbia in the most transparent way possible. I have read, Mr. Ilic, preparing for today's session of the Assembly, with how much praise you have spoken about this privatisation, although you have estimated that it will not be possible to get more than 600 million months back. To remind you, of the billions of 513m euros, 320m euros were paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia as a license amount, and out of the rest, billions and 193m euros, 70% belonged to Serbia, and the amount of 357m and 900,000 euros was paid to another shareholder, and to the one who bought it from Bogoljub Karic, with whom I see you contact extremely well. Of course, we don't have any contact with him because he's on an APB. Given that 357m euros were due to the state to pay within three days, it ended its obligations. The rest of the funds were then planned for Serbia's development, employment, infrastructure development, of course, according to the project documentation, but could not be spent before amendments and additions to the Budget Law were passed, meaning the law on amendments and additions or rebalancing, as we like to say. On 4 October 2006, a rebalancing process was adopted, allowing infrastructure and the budget of the National Investment Plan to invest in the implementation of projects. Let me remind you once again, on 9 November 2006, all G17 Plus ministers left the government. It was possible to spend those funds from 4 October to 9 November by the G17 Plus ministers. To remind me once again, the finance minister was Mladjan Dinkic, Agriculture Minister Ivana Dulic and Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic. At the time, the designed National Investment Plan identified 30% of the funds to the Ministry of Capital Investment for the Development of Infrastructure in Serbia. I also read airplanes and trucks that were then promised by the Resorving Ministry, and the facts were that there were no major national capital projects that were completed during the ministry's term. As for the concession you mention, it was signed on 30 March 2007 at a time when Minister Dinkic was not in the government. Also, let me remind you, it was a period of transitional government where you were alone with your coalition partner. So what you're talking about is one big bunch of false information about some recognizable public events and it doesn't matter what you're talking about. But you probably want it to look that way. Fortunately for me or unfortunately, I've found myself in a situation where since July 2008 I've been conducting projects that you started in the infrastructure area through the National Investment Plan. And exactly, Mr. Ilic, the construction project has been completed nearly five kilometers in part from Kragujevac towards Batocina, without a project. That's right, no project. But according to the contract you signed and which is in my ministry today, and because of the state's responsibility, as resolute minister, I continued the contract and finished the project. As for the sequel, there you can be sure that no project has ever been agreed by the Ministry of the National Investment Plan, not one single dinar spent past the contract and past the law. I claim to you and, of course, I claim to all those who want to make an insight into how funds from the Ministry of National Investment Plan are spent to meet either themselves or through competent institutions. What you are asking a question about – is it possible to make an international tender and contract and finance Corridor 10 without project documentation? Well, of course not. But of course that's why we don't realize Corridor 10. We've got two tenders scheduled. One is a bypass around Dimitrovgrad, one from Dimitrovgrad to Piroth and one part that is now being financed from the "Helenik" plan, from the Serbian house towards Bujanovac. You know why we can't do this today, because you haven't left us a single finished project and in any part of the completed expropriation, and that job is hard, and that job takes a long time, and that job costs a lot. That's why we don't have a realisation on Corridor 10 today. Of course these things are more than clear to everyone. As far as the Development Fund is concerned, I would also like to remind you that you were a member of the Management Board of the Development Fund and you know very well that the Legal Development Fund does not finance primary agricultural production. I'm sorry, as are you, that the cherries remain defenseless around Leskovec, but there is neither jurisdiction nor any possibility of helping the Development Fund. I'm also sorry that you're making such a big deal out of what's going on in Cačka these days, which is the reconstruction of the street of Djordja Tomasevic, precisely through the resources of the Ministry of National Investment Plan. Unfortunately, the project stopped because local self-government has serious problems and I'm going to Cacak tomorrow to talk about it. She has serious problems, which has provided us with information that she has completely clean, solved property-legal relations, and no, and also that the project that was done does not correspond to the state of performance and we have some shallow water pipes. I'll talk about it in front of the cameras and the public tomorrow, looking completely into the eyes of all my partners. As for "Freedom", as well as as the Minister for Infrastructure who sat in the Development Fund, you must know that "Freedom" and today-day is a social enterprise in restructuring, which is greatly supported by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, but which today is not possible to enter into credit arrangements with the Development Fund because social enterprises cannot get loans from the Development Fund because it is not so under the law. Today's changes and additions are for us not to discriminate at least on state-owned enterprises, where he is a clear titlemaker and for this reason we are proposing today in one member of the amendment and addition of the Development Fund Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45894	The Right to Replica, the Messenger of the People, Velimir Ilic, and the Messenger of the People, Vlajko Senić. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I apologize, People's MP, People's MP Jorgenka Tabakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and he gets his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45895	Madam Chairman, I have indeed found no other option, except through Rule 27, where the President of the National Assembly or the one who replaces him, or does his job, is getting older on the presidency, but also on other affairs, in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure, to inform you that the conditions for working in the work where the parliamentary group sits, from the middle of our part of the line to the worse, are unbearable because of the cold we suffer from the blow. Mrs Vesna Pesic also complains with the right, colleagues from New Serbia. Do you know how we feel? Like the bus where the driver sits and turns on the heating, and the rest of the passengers leave to freeze. I've been wearing woolen tissues for days. I don't intend to start wearing blankets, but if you don't have a way to solve the temperature situation where the chairman is, find some way, turn on the fans, because we're shaking here. A colleague got sinus inflammation for the second time. I really feel like someone who's exposed to mobbing, and no member of this Rules of Procedure is solving the conditions for our work. Please do something.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45896	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. All members of the Rules of Procedure shall regulate the conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Regardless of the difficult conditions for work, please do not abuse the rules of the Rules of Procedure. People's MPs, fortunately for a little while longer, will hold our sessions in this room for two years and the problem of unequal temperature is present for a variety of reasons, and until today, every time we address the Secretary General of the Assembly, and he is the service that regulates the air temperature in the room where we work. It's done today. Please do not deny the truthfulness of the claim I make, because it was done today. It takes time. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the scene: Come sit here to see the truthfulness of the claim. Please don't throw away, People's MPs, I'm giving you information. I'm giving you information that it's intervened at the technical service by the Secretary General and that heating the room takes time. It was intervened an hour ago. Please let each of us do our job and leave people who turn on and off cooling and heating to do their job. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45897	The Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, is injured, the dignity of the National Assembly, when you warn me to do my job. My job is to deal with what the laws are, and for that I have no elemental conditions because I'm freezing and I'm not the only one. He's protesting at least 30 MPs, and you're saying there's no injury. It's intervened, there's no effect and you're still trying to make something interesting out of it. We suffer the cold and have no working conditions. You hurt my personal dignity and my colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45898	There is no violation of Article 107, because it cannot be treated as a violation of the reputation of the National Assembly except in an amazing interpretation of the sentence that everyone is doing their job. Information about the unfavourable conditions for the work of the MPs in this room came to us more than 60 minutes ago and transferred. It takes time for the system to be brought into a state that allows for elemental temperature. That's the information I'm passing to you. If you want detailed technical information, I request the Secretary General of the National Assembly to inform all MPs in writing of the technical conditions of heating and cooling in the National Assembly. The Messenger of the people, Velimir Ilic, right to a replica, then the Messenger of the people, Vlajko Senić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45899	Let me just lean on this problem. Look how the leaf works here, here it blows like you're on a mountain somewhere. Look. I want to replicate to Ms. Minister Kalanovic. She accused me of carrying out a series of lies. I haven't told a single lie. I was talking about the Ministry of Economy, not just the Development Fund, an economy that doesn't work, etc., I was talking about how many factories have been destroyed, shut down, that they don't exist. I'm glad you're going to Chachak tomorrow. I'm glad you're gonna do that one street. It's your turn to sort something out. Not even Chuck is out there in the middle of nowhere, that he can't get at least one street. I'm glad you're making promises and giving one street now, rather than giving it away. Are you maybe giving something out of your pocket? How much did you do in Loznica? How much did the streets cost you in Loznica? How many million euros is an alley a mile away? That's what I'd like someone to reconsider. Ask around, Madam Minister, how much did the streets cost in Loznica? Millions of euros. The Schlaff thing from where you're from, now the Schlaff appears as a factor, etc. when it's a story. You know who brought Schlaff to the government? He was brought here by Karic. Do you know who took him first? Your Minister Dinkic. Do you know? Do you know whose recommendation he came by? According to Boris Tadic. At my place when he came, he told me, personally, I am here, Šlaf is here, and Dinkic is there, in the presence of Dinkic, when Dinkic brought him as a resolute minister, he said – I come after an agreement with the President of the Republic of Tadic. He explained more to me, he thought we were all one party in the government. He explained to me what it would do for the election. He told me all about it. Is that what you're interested in now? Then Dinkic came in and pulled him into the other office and said yes, shut up. Don't give it to him, give it to him, do you understand now? Now you understand. I'm glad you know. Secondly, you said no projects. Mrs Kalanovic, this parliament has adopted a concession from Dimitrovgrad-Nish. It was in Nis concession adopted and means that there were projects for that part of the highway as well. Now I can tax you, there's documentation for everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45900	Two minutes. People's MP, the time that's meant for the replica is two minutes. You've used your time. The Minister applied for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45901	I'll be very brief. Rehabilitation of M4 section 5 of Loznica was done by project documentation with a tender approved by the European Investment Bank, from the program – We work together. The works were completed in exactly 60 days, according to the contract, and a kilometer and 800 meters of complete reconstruction cost 139,450,289,43 dinars. Works on the street of Djordje Tomaševic in Cačka will cost 235 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45902	The Messenger of the people, Vlajko Senić, and the right to the tail of the Messenger of the people Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45903	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to clarify a few things. It has been said that we, I suppose, are thinking of a political party, destroyed Kragujevac, destroyed Ratche. First, it would be good if we had enough energy, resources and foreign investment in the way we destroyed Kragujevac and Rač, to destroy another city in Serbia that was in a difficult state, in which Kragujevac and Raca were in their own time. The Kragujevac was a ghost town. The factory that employs fictitious people, which received several hundredm euros from the budget to maintain that fiction, and the Serbian government, and we will not say that it is G17 plus, we say that it is a government project where Mr Dinkic participated, where he also turned his significant contribution to engagement by Boris Tadic into the potentially largest exporter from Serbia and the factory to employ 2,000 people and several thousand people who will be co-operatives in all this. I don't see what's wrong with Serbia or what's wrong with Kragujevac and Ratche. We had people here outside the Assembly, outside the Privatisation Agency, and they didn't know what to do. They didn't have any future. They've got a factory that employs so many people, that they can't just work people from the Rats, but also from the region. There's also a factory opening in Nis. Maybe it's funny to you. I'm not mad that you're laughing. I think everyone has the right to interpret in a different way this here as spoken in the Assembly, but it's not fair, I would say, about the presidents of the municipalities in Serbia talking that way. These are your colleagues, and Mr. Nicic, and Mr. Verko from Kragujevac, and Mr. Vidoje Petrovic. These are people who trust citizens in the municipalities where they run the business. I believe that in some of the following, and we advocate that it be direct elections, will be elected directly from the citizens and be some representatives in the right way. Finally, as far as Mobtella is concerned. Mobtel, dear friends and respected citizens, was our company that financed a family in Serbia. Mobtel was sold in the way it was best done. At that point, there was a huge amount of money. I am now asking myself as a MP – was it our obligation to defend the interests of a family or a family that lives on and off of these revenues today, or the interest of the citizens of Serbia? I think the answer is very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45904	The word has the People's Messenger Velimir Ilic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45905	You know how, I'm very sorry that Mrs. Secretary is using lies again. It is true that the street in Čačka Djordja Tomasevic is four kilometers long. It's true that this is 800 meters. It would be true if it were five times more. So this one in Cacca would cost 800 or 750m euros if we were to go to Loznica Street price list. Right? So, ma'am, tomorrow you go and measure and you'll see that it's four kilometers, that 200 million is four kilometers, and that 800 meters is 130 and something million. That was when the euro was 74 dinars. That was almost two million euros at the time, ma'am. Almost two million euros. Let me just finish, Nis – Dimitrovgrad the future highway passed the concession, and in the tender no one answered because there was a small traffic. When the concession went through, there was a project documentation. That's not true, this parliament voted both concessions together. On the same day, the concession of Horgos-Požega and Nis-Dimitrovgrad was voted. Check it out in the paperwork. Don't tell the truth, but there have been many projects that were very important. These are the Chargan tunnel, it is Borova Glava on Zlatibor to Kokin's Brod complete reconstruction, until Macedonia complete reconstruction, Novi Sad-Subotica complete reconstruction of one tape, Croatian border complete reconstruction, Republika Srpska complete reconstruction and expansion of all tunnels through the Siscevac ravine and railway traffic. What was set aside for rail traffic, 18 bridges on rail corridor 10, tunnels on corridor 10, reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway to Valjev and a number of other projects done at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Don't explain to me now that nothing's been done. You know that in 2004...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45906	Two minutes, MP. Replication time has been used. Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan J. Nikolic. After him, MP Arsen Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45907	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished Madam Ministers and Associates from the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS-JS parliamentary group welcomes the government's commitment to dislocating important institutions from Belgrade to the interior. In the voting day, we will support the law or amendments to the Law on the Agency for the Financing and Insurance of Exports, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Employment and Change Fund and the Completion of the Development Fund Act. We will also support the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Before I go on to comment on certain provisions of legal solutions, I think it is a good opportunity to talk a little bit about the economic opportunities in the interior of Serbia, especially in the extremely undeveloped areas of Serbia, which unfortunately is very little to talk about in this House. I come from southern Serbia, from the Pcinj County, and I will only provide a few data showing the state of southern Serbia, when the economy and its development are at the moment. As a key indicator of economic development of a particular area, infrastructure is certainly an indicator and development of a particular area. If we just take the state of travel and the state of the railway network in southern Serbia, we can conclude that it is very bad and there is no adequate road connection between urban and rural areas. Not to mention the lagging of the south of Serbia in these basic economic indicators, such as GDP growth per employee, average earnings and employment status, and all these data well illustrate the growing gap in the Republic of Serbia between undeveloped and developed areas. At least to be honest, the other part of Serbia in terms of development in relation to the environment is recording quite low results. Unfortunately, in such undeveloped areas, the privatisation process flows very slowly, and where privatisation is achieved, rare examples of successful privatisation are. A good part of it cancels out, the company returns to state property, and very often there is bankruptcy, simply, in such regions the accompanying phenomenon is that we have a constant lack of investment activities. Of course, it's a very high unemployment rate and with low prospects, even though we talked about spatial planning yesterday, that in due course the situation can be improved. In such situations, a very specific demographic problem arises. People are moving out in search of work. The villages remain empty, the entire territory is empty. Unfortunately, a large number of capacities previously operated in such areas no longer exist. Many productions, although there are records, do not work and many natural end potentials are not used, not to talk about valuable tourist potentials, when it comes to southern Serbia, because it is rich in spas, spas, lakes, mountains that remain because of lack of funds empty. When it comes to Pcinj County, it may best be data that out of the 229,597 residents living in 336 inhabited areas, only 40,104 are employed in all sectors and public services. It works, so 17.6% of the total population of the county. The number of people whose job is a dry need is 30.244, and in some municipalities the data is extremely worrying; for example, in Presevo the job requires 6,778 workers or 66.7% of the total number of working-age residents. The unemployment rate at the Pcinj County level is 42.9%. If the republican average is 27.8%, then it is very clear how far south is behind Serbia's average. The average net earnings in 2009 in the municipality of Vladicin Han were 14.949 dinars, and in Serbia the average net earnings during that year amounted to 31.733 dinars. To point out, I'm always talking about averages, not extremes or developed municipalities where there are differences in many indicators in the degree of development between one and ten, even 20 times. I believe that the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to dislocate certain institutions from Belgrade is a good start, that the accumulated development problems of Serbia are seen closely and begin to resolve quickly, and that the funds of the Development Fund, incentives for employment and PIO funds are being channelled to stimulate production. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for the Financing and Insurance of Exports, we all know that Serbia's exports are a terrible need. Serbia's market is a little bit of a consumer aspect, above all, but also a low standard of living further hampers the consumption that normally takes place in developed economies. We and such small production capacities that we have at the moment cannot be completely abandoned if we define ourselves only for Serbia's market. We would have to employ capacities with huge investments and efforts that we must jointly make to increase exports beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia. The moves made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to this day, above all, I am referring to the conclusion of the Agreement on duty-free trade, with major economies of the world, such as Russia, Turkey, Belarus and others, which we enjoy in the EU countries and the contracts we have signed with the CEFTA countries, create the assumption that we can export more than other and favourableities that, in this sense, in the duty-free zone, we can make respectable exports compared to the amount of exports we currently have. After all the events in Yugoslavia, then at the premises of Serbia and the last 20 years in particular, the World Economic Crisis has made it so that many economic operators, small, medium and large, monitors the huge indifference and lack of funds to obtain basic materials so that they can secure the process of production, especially the process of export production. Although the funds to which the Export Encouragement Agency, as well as the Development Fund, are relatively small, I think it is very good that dislocation of such institutions can better consider the possibility of a particular economic operator in the interior of Serbia to be able to produce, export, make quality goods, and I think that this kind of resettlement is very good from that point of view. I think that, in addition to moving to Uzica, the Employment Agency and the Kragujevac Employment Fund and the Niš Development Fund, an even greater number of these institutions, depending on the needs of a particular region, are needed to move, and I personally think it is very good that, taking into account the number of employees, the sooner they move through a system of branches of this institution that are now moved to these four or three cities, in order to influence the development of certain areas. I think it is a good opportunity to remind myself that we have almost made a statistical division of Serbia across the regions and that it would be good for each region to have one branch of these very important institutions present. We cannot count on the development of southern Serbia, to remind from the beginning of my presentation, if it is the completion of the Corridor, or if these works are not completed as soon as possible. No one mentioned Nis airport, and it is a very important destination for foreign investors, for their arrival and we cannot count on it unless we provide these investors with the shortest roads and the fastest roads in Serbia. They will not invest in Bosilegrad or Trade, unless we have connected modern roads with Corridor 10, which is also not in the area. A selective incentive policy should be introduced in areas with a low level of development. It could be a good incentive for investors in the real sector. Investor investment must be suffered by tempting conditions for it by local self-government, all the way to the state. Local taxes must be active and significantly less than the usual duties that go into the rest of the state, as the state must assist poor municipalities in the development of spatial plans, the catastra of immovableity, in establishing efficient municipal administrations, with education, should provide municipalities with a favourable investment climate. It is very important that in all local environments in underdeveloped areas, projects to build industrial zones are approached. Local self-government should prepare and ensure that building land is paid to investors without compensation. An investor who comes from this environment must be provided with positive fiscal discrimination, especially if the investor has been identified as labour intensive branches, such as textile industry, furniture industry, shoe industry. It is about industries that employ a large number of workers with relatively low personal incomes and in the structure of employees is a high percentage of women, and it is very important that these investments can be realised with relatively low resources compared to high technologies. Of course, we can also use natural resources in a better way if we have provided incentives in terms of the long-term lease of tourist facilities and the stimulating benefits of Banjski tourism. Tourism is usually one of the business branches that can employ a good part of workers, but also a good part of other activities such as agriculture and a good part of industrial capacities. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this country, if you want to get out of the economic downturn, needs a job, and it has to be provided as soon as possible, because without new jobs, without production, there is no newly created value, GDP growth, there is simply no improvement in the economy and society. We have a paradox that, despite the high unemployment rate, we are increasingly experiencing a problem of lack of quality personnel, above all, trained staff, because talented and professional staff have been leaving us for 20 years without returning. Otherwise, as far as the Tourism Act is concerned, we believe that it solves the key problems facing tourist intermediaries and persons providing services in tourism. For the first time, a register of tourist agencies is established, legal and natural persons dealing with tourist activity are registered and the responsibility measures for users of tourist services are tightened and vice versa. The adoption of this law creates a legal basis, i.e. a framework for the effective and efficient management of tourism, ensuring compliance with the provisions of other regulations and harmonizes with EU rules, in particular in the part of ensuring greater protection of tourist users and defining and more precise interpretations such as catering work, rural tourist household, host in domestic activity, etc. In particular, the role of the tourist agency in intervening in the use of rural tourism services and domestic work is defined. Once again, I confirm that our parliamentary group in voting day will support these four legislative projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45908	Sixteen minutes of authorized representative time. The word has the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group, Mr Arsen Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45909	Dear Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, who knows which way so far the ruling majority is uniting the debate on several legislative proposals and some proposals that are not for unanimity and in this way we have been prevented from discussing in a quality way very important legislative proposals. Today we are discussing the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tourism, the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports and the Bill on Employment in the event of unemployment. Since I don't have enough time, I'll look back in just a few sentences on the draft law on the Development Fund and the proposal for a law on the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance. The essence of these laws is that the seats of these institutions are moving from Belgrade to the towns of the interior of Serbia and I welcome and support it. In the light of the law, it states that the aim of law-making is to create a favourable environment for increasing exports, repairing the capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises that are export-oriented, and then, the deconcentration of state institutions and reducing differences in equal regional development. I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't agree and who doesn't think it's necessary to do it, but the question is whether these amendments of the law are going to happen. I'm afraid not. Once again, I support the move of institutions to inner cities as some initial steps towards decentralisation of government, especially when it comes to the Agency for Insurance and Export Financing, where it is proposed that the agency's headquarters be in Uzic, since Uzice, that the Zlatibor County makes 13% of Serbia's total exports, and that it is the only district in Serbia that has an external trade surplus, or larger exports than imports, thanks to the copper mills, the aluminium cylinders "First Partisan", the dedicated production and export of raspberries throughout the region. However, for the further development of the Zlatibor district and all of Western Serbia, the fundamental problems posed for some further development, for attracting, both foreign and domestic investments, for increasing exports, are more significant investments in infrastructure, and above all I mean traffic infrastructure. When we say traffic infrastructure, we mean construction of highways from Belgrade to Požega and reconstruction and activation of airports for civilian purposes. When we talk about building a highway from Belgrade to Požega, I mean the real construction of that road, that is, the beginning of construction works of that highway, and not of the show we saw three months ago when the trumpets started construction works from Ub to Lykovec and after three months, winter came, snow fell, and not one single meter of that road was done. If that intensity continues, I don't know who'll be waiting for that trip to end. I say it is a key prerequisite for further development of all Western Serbia. Moreover, since there has been a lot of talk about this unequal development and large differences between certain regions and municipalities, there are some other things that need to be done, which are transfer funds to local self-government. So today we are talking, or the government's representatives talk about how the National Investment Plan invests in certain municipalities, how certain projects are financed, and no one is saying that municipalities have been denied for a third year for transfer funds, some up to 30%, and some even up to 70%. It is necessary to return these transfer funds to the level from 2007, so that local self-governments can function normally, as a large number of municipalities in Serbia are literally on the verge of existence and cannot service elemental things. Now I'm going to say more about the proposal for a tourism law. Last year, that is, a year and a little more days ago, we adopted the Tourism Act, and today we have its changes. As explained in the bill's proposal, these amendments are mainly more precisely governed by some of the provisions that have been shown in practice to be not sufficiently clear. In practice, it was observed that there were many shortcomings. It is good that these ambiguities are removed and that they are defined more precisely. However, in the law itself, much remains undefined and unclear. I think there are over 20 members left behind to prescribe closer terms, to adopt certain regulations or sublaws in accordance with this law. It's not a dispute, it's a common practice when laws are passed. However, I think that in certain cases it was necessary to establish certain criteria based on which these rules would later be adopted. One of the basic remarks and the draft law currently applicable to these amendments and additions to the Tourism Act is the management of tourist destinations. We talked about it a year ago and talked about it. It is clear that the current governance model and mechanisms for managing tourist destinations do not meet the needs of the modern market and this is not precisely defined in the previous but also in these amendments of the law. In Serbia, there is a Strategy for the Development of Tourism of Serbia, which provides for the establishment of destination management management of an organisation that will manage the destination and be the bearers of its further development. Neither in the applicable law nor in the amendments to the law, they are clearly defined, nor defined the way in which they are set up, financed, competent. I think it's a big mistake. These destination managements should be formed according to the public and private sector partnership model, where, other than local self-government, other than state institutions, major economic operators engaged in tourism in the area of destination would be included. In this way, it would be much more efficient and quality to manage destinations. The next thing that is controversial in this bill, anyone has caused violent reactions from many professional associations is special hospitals dealing with prevention, rehabilitation and treatment, as well as the provision of housing and nutrition services. I assume that all parliamentary groups have received letters from the Association of Serbia's Bane Associations and the Association of Specialized Health Institutions with their objections, because in the current tourism law, the institutions had an obligation to obtain the consent of the ministry for the provision of services to third parties. However, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law left the obligation to obtain the minister's approval, but the period of validity of that authorisation was reduced to an inappropriately short period of up to a year. That's extremely unserious, because how can someone plan something more long-term, and that deadline for up to a year could be three months, six months? So it's an inappropriately short term and it really doesn't need to be discussed. We have submitted amendments to that member of the law. We think that if these institutions meet minimum technical conditions and other conditions, which are prescribed by law and sublaw, they should be granted approval and that they should not have a restriction as long as they meet those conditions. And another amendment, if you do not want to accept that amendment, is that that period of validity of that approval is at least three years, so that they can plan something more long-term. That's where the public is deluded when it's said to be budgetary institutions. These are state institutions that are not financed from the budget. They're completely on the market. Part of their capacity is granted to the Republic Health Insurance Office on the basis of the contract, but they provide services and health and housing services to users and charge for certain funds, but over 50% of their capacities are used by third parties. They basically invest further in their facilities. I think banish tourism has extremely high potential in Serbia that are quite untapped. The operators of this Banjski tourism are these specialised health institutions and I think they should be helped and allowed to further invest by making their incomes available to third parties, to become modern spa centres, not to return them to the level of general hospitals, if we deny them the possibility of working with third parties. That is why we absolutely support the proposal of the Association of Banes of Serbia, and we have submitted amendments in this regard. We also have certain objections when it comes to guarantees for agencies. We fully agree that it is necessary to achieve a higher level of consumer protection, but since there are no criteria, but will be done on the basis of the rules, we have submitted an amendment and are asking to distinguish between small agencies operating locally and those leading a large number of guests abroad. Finally, I call on you to accept these amendments submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, as it will certainly correct the proposed text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45910	It was used 11 minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the authorised representative. Does Mr. Pelevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45911	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministries, respected citizens of Serbia, as the authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group, I would like to point out the fundamental shortcomings of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act, on a perfectly well-meaning basis, and my colleagues will, in principle and in an individual debate, discuss the individual shortcomings of this law and the other three laws of this united debate. Unfortunately, we must conclude that Serbia does not have the Ministry of Tourism. Although all indicators say Serbia's economic future lies mainly in agriculture and tourism, although it is our great economic chance, the Serbian government did not consider it appropriate to educate the tourism ministry. They forgot that our country is truly rich in natural treasure. They forgot about our rivers, our mountains, our lakes, our spas, which in financial and economic terms really give us a great opportunity. Of course, we don't have the sea, but it's not even Switzerland, neither is Hungary, but that's why they have a significantly higher income than Serbia has than tourism. For example, Budapest, the capital of Hungary, has more tourism revenue than the entire tourism of the Republic of Serbia. I guess Serbia didn't think Serbia needed a tourism ministry, but it therefore felt it needed some other ministries that were really very unnecessary. I would only say that a ministry without a portfolio was established, only to please one man, the president of a party, that one of his MPs, only one of his MPs in parliament could vote for all the laws proposed by this government and thus maintain the existence of this government in Serbia. It is about Mr. Sulejman Ugljanin, who is the minister without portfolio or translation, I would say to the minister for nothing, the minister who does nothing, who has no obligation and simply takes over a chair that was given to him by the Serbian government as a compromise. So instead of the Minister of Tourism, we got Mr. Mladjan Dinkic who performs several functions, so he certainly can't get enough attention to the area of tourism. The vice-president is the Serbian government, economy minister, regional development minister, president of two parties, one in establishment, one in existence. It's really very difficult to deal with tourism, unless, for example, it's not about ski resorts. It seems to me that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's work, even when it comes to this area of tourism, is going to simply promote the formation of a new political party, which is not good, because it is incomprehensible why it is, but it is understandable why our tourism is on such low borders. The abolition of the tourism ministry reminds us of the abolition of the Sports Ministry in 2001, when DOS abolished the Ministry of Sports, and then they realized, after our remarks several times, that indeed the Ministry of Sports was necessary and after a few years, to the joy of all athletes and sports organisations, they reintroduced it. It's a good thing we have the Youth and Sports Ministry today. Sport is a little better alive than before, a little more comfortable with sports alliances, although sport in the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia is being allocated by the government to 0.5% of the total budget, which is really minimal for youth and sport, then we wonder why we are so young and why our sport is not as successful as it was ten years ago. It is absolutely certain that after the new elections, which are inevitable because of the country's catastrophic situation, I am talking about the political and economic situation, because of the lowest salaries and pensions in the region, because of the high unemployment rate, because a large number of people live below the poverty line, because the government is calmly watching the KIM take us away, because of the unstable situation in the Raška area, that a new government will come and thus also introduce the tourism ministry. We in SNS really consider tourism to be one of the chances for a better life for Serbian citizens. There was no word on the infrastructure, nor in the original law, which was passed last year, nor in this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, and we all know that infrastructure is the basis for the development of tourism. It was already about infrastructure that prevented the development of tourism in Golia. I will mention Kosjerić, given that I was almost there and that there are many significant and attractive tourist events, very difficult to get to by the very bad roads. The law was passed in May last year with a total of 129 members, but after a year and a half has changed, which has become the government's practice, unfortunately. We get 67 changes, 67 new provisions, 67 members change, which is more than half of the total members of the existing law. This law is filled with bad solutions and shortcomings, which are abundant and valid. For example, in the second section, which speaks of planning and development of tourism, Articles 4 to 14, absolutely nothing changes, and it should change a lot and a lot of things to be complemented. In Article 5. The tourism law speaks of planning documents, such as the strategy for the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia and the tourism development programme. Article 7, which discusses the strategy for the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia, says the strategy contains, among other things, several points to list: the advantages and disadvantages of tourism of the Republic of Serbia, the objectives of tourism development, the vision of tourism development, the choice of priority tourism products. It's all well stated, but it's not well or well explained, it's very incomplete and simply unusable in practice. In Article 11. The tourism law says: "The development programme of the tourist product is a plan document that is closer to determining the development of priority tourism products established by the strategy: urban holidays, circular travel, business tourism, health tourism, mountain and lake tourism, nautical tourism, events, congresses and other events, rural tourism and special interest." The question for Madam Minister is this, if she's really competent to answer that question. What does the term "city vacation" mean? Why is this term first in Serbia's tourism products and tourist offers? So it's the main form of tourism in Serbia, and we all know it's not. What does the form of "special interests" mean? I don't suppose Mrs. Minister knows that either, and I don't expect a quality answer to these two questions. When you were already wrong when you passed the Tourism Act in May last year, when you proposed it and the ruling coalition brought it, gentlemen from the government, why didn't you correct the big mistake and supplement Article 11, why didn't you put those forms of tourism that are really profitable for Serbia and which could actually succeed in Serbia? There is not a single word on sports events and sports competitions as a form of tourism, not a single word on artistic and cultural events as a form of tourism, about ecotourism is also not spoken of in the current Tourism Act, nor in the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Just a few words about these forms of tourism and tourism product. Sports tourism is not mentioned, and is constantly present in Serbia. As you know, Serbia hosts many international competitions, many international matches, purchases, tournaments. Serbia is very often hosting Balkan championships, European and world championships. I will list two examples of sports, which were, one month ago, and one is just playing in Belgrade. A month ago there was a World Boxing Championship for juniors and cadets in Belgrade, there were over 2,000 participants, nine hotels completely occupied. About a million dollars was spent on hotels alone. Not to mention out-of-board consumption, the consumption they made in other city facilities. It is today that the Senior World Karate Championship begins, which brings together about 1,500 participants. They'll all sleep in hotels, eat etc. Isn't that the form of tourism? No, there is no word on this in the current Law, nor in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. No one's talking about artistic and cultural tourism. Gentlemen of the government, you have all forgotten that Serbia also has a FEST, that there is BITEF, BEELEF, you forgot that we have a trumpet assembly in Guca, which every year becomes more mass and popular, especially among foreigners, you forgot that there is Exit in Novi Sad, you forgot about many cultural events, not only in Belgrade and Novi Sad, but also those held in Nis, Leskovac and many other towns of Serbia. You've completely forgotten that cultural tourism exists and you've completely neglected it. You've neglected eco-tourism. If we're not an economic force, then we're an ecological force. We are truly abundant in untouched areas, mountainous, river and lake areas, and we do not know how to exploit it, or you have not put it in the first version of the law that is valid, nor in the draft law on changes and additions to the Tourism Act. Is that what you call it? "city vacation", which you listed first of all as a tourist offer or "special interests", for which no one knows what it means, more important than cultural tourism, sports tourism, one word of events tourism, is it more important to you than ecotourism, etc? It seems to be, unfortunately. You mention it as a new concept of nautical tourism. Well done, nautism and nautical tourism. Every penny that comes from any form of tourism is important for Serbia, but this applies only to a few cities along the Sava and Danube, which can have marinas, docks, anchors, waterfronts, yachts, etc. I'm telling you that the areas of tourism that I've listed can't really be compared to nautical tourism. Of course, all of these categories that I have cited were very necessary and needed to be listed and classified in the strategy for the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia, but at the same time, institutions that will deal with the development of these forms of tourism should be set up. There are identified types of plans here, but no mention of professional institutions, no mention of scientific institutions and consulting agencies to deal with tourism development, which will scream research in the field of tourism and which will publicly publish these researches and which will interpret these experiences in practice. So, only one sentence on the tourism development programme in Serbia is wrong. It's about Article 12. The tourism law entitled – Tourism Development Program. I quote: "Autonomic province, a unit of local self-government within the competences of the law governing local self-government and special law, adopt a programme of tourism development in line with the strategy". One single sentence on the development of tourism in Serbia, but I think it is a technical mistake and that the title must have been – a programme for the development of rural and local tourism, because it is not about the state of Serbia, it is about its parts, AP and local self-government. In Article 50. The tourism law, which bears the title – European Training, is about the educational level of those who will represent us in front of foreigners. It also discusses the professional preparation needed to employ people in leading places in tourist agencies. They need to have either a higher level of expertise or to have a medium professional equipment of four years. Please, then why do we have as many as six universities in Serbia that educate people in the field of tourism? Should these colleges and high schools be abolished or will we continue to be employed in leading places in tourism by people who have completed primary school or at best higher school in a touristic or other social direction? Given the complexity of services provided by tourist workers, it is really necessary to raise the level of education in the field of tourism. That's really necessary if we want to make progress on that. These are all reasons, in addition to the reasons why my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, which is why representatives, SNS MPs cannot vote for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45912	15 minutes and 15 seconds of the authorized representative's time have been used. The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45913	Mr. Novakovic, I'll relax you right now. You can smile. Today, I am very pleased that both government representatives and representatives of the parties in power spoke today. I must commend you, you're all men right what you said. You're absolutely right what you said. I would recommend you go to the first DVD center to take the movie "Kramer v. Kramer" and see what DOS looks like against DOS. The Kramer vs. Kramer is about love for a child, and the DOS versus DOS is about love for money. Since we've mastered that lesson, let's move on. We have submitted a large number of amendments, and when we wrote these amendments to these drafts of the law, we used an explanation written by the Government, so we'll talk about it later. I'm particularly glad that you've confirmed today everything we've claimed since 2001. You were changing, and you were in power, and you weren't, and you were in the coalition, and you loved each other, and you didn't love each other, you demonstrated your coalition capacities, but we've been the only opposition since 2001. Everything we've burdened you, you've confirmed today. I commend you, so it's still worth talking about this year. When I told the people in Covin last year -- don't trust those in power, they say they're going to hire you, the government is bringing in a program to fire the state service. They said, "If those who are in power come to Kovin and are in power, there will be a huge budget transfer." I said: they lie to you; there will be no transfer. What the entire local self-government in the Republic of Serbia is now saying, which is 150 municipalities, 23 cities and the city of Belgrade. They say this, that the government of the Republic of Serbia has reversed and mutilated local self-government. He says the government doesn't follow the law that she passed four years ago. Please, I quote all of this, these are all your views, none of mine, and it's confirmed what I was telling you in time. What does Mrs Dragutinovic say, so when employees' salaries financed from the republican budget are frozen, wages financed from the local budget are also frozen. She's the woman who missed the subject. What do these others say? These others say – it's not a topic, it's a topic of development, of asphalting, of heating. I heard Loznica's been heating up for four days. It's a big debt. I am extremely pleased that you are smiling, the president of Kosjeric municipality, the famous columnist Dragan Vujadinovic, who in that building attacked the government, and always voted for what the government says, here's what he says: "The republican budget is overbooked, expenditures and deficits are big and we all know that this is the main culprit of public spending. Yet, in the redistribution of funds, we, i.e. municipalities and cities in the interior. We need this money to invest to become companies that make money. The investor won't come to us if there's nothing to come for and what to come for. He needs a road at least, if there's no railroad. But instead of giving us funds and permits to work, the government is going through a line of less resistance and not touching public spending, but cutting us off." That is what Dragan Vujadinovic, president of Kosjeric municipality, a member of the DS, said. I support him, except he remembered late. A similar story is told by others, but as you can see here, there is no reason why Mrs Dragutinovic is talking about. But, well, there are objections that the local self-government has been abolished, then the pregnant, then the problem of unemployment. And, hell, there were the mayors of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Kramer v Kramer. You can't convince yours, and you're trying here in the Assembly to convince the SRS as the only opposition party. We can't trust you. I'll support Mr. Paunovic. Look what Mr. Paunovic says. He says, "From different announcements, like those when Minister Mladjan Dinkic recently said that the crisis has passed and that it is time for municipalities to return transfer funds to the old level." The younger crisis has passed, inform Mr. Paunovic, or he will believe that the crisis has passed, or if he complains about this money, he can find somewhere else. Now let's see at this National Employment Service. Laugh, please, this is interesting. It is said this: "The current programme, technical assistance project and improvements in data management capacity, forecasting, monitoring, and evaluation". So no bank will go to a new job. It costs a large million euros, the EU funded, and the project will link the consortium to the EEE group. We're going to another project, the Spanish are funding, some Spanish fund, a project to support national efforts, you're tense, so the nation is tense, to promote youth employment and to manage migration. It's a joint program, it's two million U.S. dollars, you're realising through one of your companies. A project to promote youth employment in Serbia, the Italian government gave almost 30m dinars. And you push that through some of your own, everything goes through the National Service. Furthermore, the PRO programme migration project, through a European Commission delegation to Serbia, is realised by the Swiss government and the Government of Liechtenstein, which is a million and a half dollars. Then, "Tempus" project to develop a life-long learning framework, DELFIS. And that's a lot of money. Furthermore, the Tempus project requalifications for unemployed persons with completed colleges in Serbia, it is CONCUR. So a graduate engineer needs to be overqualified to be a Gresser. That costs 700 thousand euros. It is also funded by the EU. Listen up. The development of a network of innovative social enterprises ISEDE NET is funded with large funds, about two and a half million euros, but it goes through the European Movement in Serbia – Minic, Zika Bambus and yours. The money is used for the unemployed, to solve problems, or is this just one flow boiler to get the money in somebody's pockets from all sides? I don't know what's waiting for Dacic, why isn't he arresting here? Says – Project Dutch experience and good practice in the field of employment, 100,000 euros, again some phantom firm. After you received our amendments, the Director of the National Employment Service called faster or better. It's a man who was until a year ago a Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, he progressed. You transferred Ilic to be an MP, he kept his mouth shut, because he was both in the tax administration and in the employment service and everything was going on there. Say hello to him. Everything's fine. Apparently, that bastard couldn't have moved on. I see, everyone's making progress from the environment, and that bastard's not making any progress. When a biography is read about this Dejan Jovanovic, what does he have to do with employment? He only knows how to be a liquidator in a bank. He only understands the money, the way I see it here. You see, when you get these people to solve problems, then B92 publishes people's comments on your news that it's all in the best order. Here's one comment, you can take that, because the National Service pays B92, so you know, it's the same house. What does one of your faithful listeners say – do these people think we are so silly, they lie worse than RTS, and on the basis of your director's information, to reduce the number of unemployed in Serbia? What does your other fan say? He says, "God knows how many people have found a job." That's what he's sending you, it's not a curse, it's a very interesting thing. The employment service, which has one directorate, two circuit services, 34 branches, 20 and another service, 120 outposts, moving to Kragujevac, nothing challenged, is why. In my amendments, I suggest that it be Black Grass, because it's a statistical error, for 40 years it's always been the last according to statistics. Let's see what unemployment is like. If we take the data in January 2008, the rate was 25.6. If we take the last published data, all your data, it's 26.10%. You're doing a great job. If we take these informers of yours where you boast about how much the service costs, etc., let me skip it, since you know it only by quoting, respected citizens, when you're solving the employment issue through the service it holds, let it be, Dejan Jovanovic, as you say, to see how your money is being spent. We'll take the first public procurement and tender procedures. We're gonna skip, this isn't gonna be a big deal. Then he says, "Supply of fuel for motor vehicles." He can't go to NIS, he has to go to OMV. Furthermore, where the Public Procurement Act is not applied: the procurement of production and broadcasting of TV programs, services, the production of information... Frama TV, etc. Purchase of production of radio and TV programmes and the purchase of time for broadcasting programmes for media promotion of measures and activities of the National Employment Service, the contract was concluded on 30 January 2009 with the offerer drp 92, B92 Belgrade, drp 92, B92. Purchase and installation of VEB applications; further, supply of resettlement services, National Service used resettlement services, there is some MBV-SZR and goods transport; further, the purchase of electronic waste recycling services. Could you have doubted? Christmas and sons. Furthermore, the acquisition of employee employment services through a youth cooperative. The National Service is hiring a student association. The Youth Co-operation Millennium. Have you forgotten, this service deals with people's employment, and you're hiring a student association? What's he waiting for, Dacic, why doesn't he arrest? Purchase of services for research of quality and quantitative indicators of the labour market Cesid d.o.o. Belgrade. Guys, what are you doing? I guess with that money, Blagojevic finally graduated. That's the research, the boobies, moving on. Getting a press-clipping service for Nina Media. Please, Mrs. Kalanovic, when you meet Mr. Cvetkovic, tell him to purchase propaganda material for the purposes of equipping the National Employment Service stand, place it mandatory in stadiums, since you gave it here for the stand at the EXIT festival. They come in there, they have a booth, you inform them how they can be hired. Give it to the fans and solve the problem. Why don't you show up there with that booth of yours? Furthermore, the acquisition of a multimedia self-taught package from the agriculture field. It's a DVD, it's probably Zechariah Trnavčević. He says -- the B92 broadcasting company -- that means 120,000 euros a month -- you're providing for B92. Do you know, Mrs. Kalanovic, what it means in the B92 translation? Call Belgrade police, and B92 info means Belgrade police, an out-of-state BIA department. You're funding them. Look, please, it says – procurement of training services from the field of journalism and media for 40 unemployed persons at the location of the city of Belgrade – Balkan Media team. Purchase of representation material for the needs of the cabinet of the National Employment Service SZUGR 'AŠ DELO' Ljig. Where'd you find a bar in the League? Why didn't you take it here somewhere in the Balkans? New Year's presents again, they have to be from the League again. Delivery of services – catering, whether you are flying in the National Service or you are about to fly from the National Service, Beo HRANA RUNDIĆ d.o.o. Belgrade. And not to read to you, it is, Mrs. Kalanovic, all the information your service has published. You also have resorts, good places, etc. So I don't have to harass you how much it costs for you to make sure people get a job and they don't get a job. It's so expensive and painful for this people, it's a disaster. As for what you want to move to Uzice, it's 34 employees in that agency, so 34 new housing units should be there, but if you move it from Belgrade, something will have to stay in Belgrade. If you are trying to prove to people that the village of the agency from Belgrade to Uzice will be cheaper for the one from Subotica who will no longer reach Belgrade, it will be closer to Užica, then you have really succeeded, but you will be faced with our amendments, so you will have to explain what it is looking at. Otherwise, for your information, as far as this agency is concerned, it's a bridge for the whole world. They played in parts, in the middle of the country of Serbia, it's a commercial. This director of yours wrote here, I'd give him five years in prison without thinking. At six, I'd start hearing something from him. What did this man write here? It's this Milenko Bogosavljevic. This is a disaster. In the end, he ended up with the fact, one finding, that when the pressure on such agencies in the world is reduced, then the global economic crisis is over. He doesn't seem to be talking to Junior. I don't know, how you show your needs is giving you some information. It says – only when the pressure on these agencies is dropped will it mean that the planet has recovered. They think about the planet, they don't think about Serbia. They prefer the EU to Angela Merkel, Nikola Sarkozy and others. Why do they love Europe so much? Access funds, dear citizens. They'll take the access funds, and you'll keep it quiet. Why the stutter? They're worried, they're trying, they're trying something. And look, as far as European standards are concerned, this is all beyond European standards. You have no statement at all that you've agreed to something that represents a commitment. What did you write about these agencies? While in the EU, many countries had to ask for permission from the Brussels administration to strengthen the capital of their agencies, which lost valuable time. So, in the EU, if you have some kind of export insurance agency and export financing agency, you have to ask for consent from the Brussels administration, and this one boasts – our happiness is that we are not in the EU, so we can go ahead and do what we want. Nikola, this is all yours. I'm not the author of any words, I'm just quoting, and when you want to replicate, to replicate out there yours, don't get mad at me because I'm going to get seriously angry. There's a mental gymnastics about interest, so now these are no longer services or jobs but products, factoring. All experts to experts, all foreign expressions. I see you've ruined my Bajr, and you just said "good." Something said "good," he doesn't know, in English. And Biro spoke English next to you. As far as this Development Fund of yours is concerned, there's a 600-year prison board you can give, there's no problem. Many of you, however, are being arrested there in that Development Fund. The younger one says, people are being arrested, 3% abused, nine of them are going to be abused this year. He reports it all, fights it. However, respected citizens, let me give you a lesson on how to work with this Development Fund. He's broke, so he's broken. When he comes to Nis, there's nothing of it, everybody knows it. I need to draw your attention to the fact that this fund is operating in a system that only has its own evaluators, and on the site of that fund, you will find a list of desirable appraisers whose estimates pass by the Development Fund. Some of these appraisers have barely been arrested. They probably didn't stick to where they needed to be injected, but they were arrested. So you have a list. If you want a loan from the fund, please report to these experts, there are mostly builders, etc. I'm studying who's on that list. I've studied 70%, but I've kept it a secret that I don't use some numbers to sue me again, so I still have to listen to him in court like I did last year. I'm doing very well when I'm listening to him, so you know, he admits everything. A young man is a very honest man, doesn't lie, confesses everything in court when I hear him. This has nothing to do with it. This is just another one in a series of scams. But inside DOS, regardless of the aggregate state, there's only a fight and a fight for strategic positions. Only the SRS is an opposition, and these others are racing who will be in the EU sooner. There is no alternative, all are left for the EU. For what? For money, who's gonna steal money. They're not interested in anything else. They are not interested in standards, they are not interested in regulations, they are not interested in citizens, they are not interested in the needs of citizens of the Republic of Serbia; they are not interested in taking a nap to get as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45914	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SPS-JS, Nova Srbija, G17 plus, LDP, DSS, Advanced Serbia, SRS and ZES. We move to a debate in order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a joint principled search. I give the word to Mr. Djordj Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45915	Dear Minister, honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, there are four legislative proposals before us today, namely four amendments and amendments to the law, and this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Tourism, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, a draft law amending and supplementing the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and a draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, I will refer to only one segment or one amendment which is part of this legislative proposal. First of all, I want to say that Serbia has a really huge chance when it comes to health tourism. As for the proposed amendments and additions to the Tourism Act, we have a certain doubt that this proposal by the special rehabilitation institution does not lead to an unfair situation with other participants in tourism in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This, in a certain period of time, may lead to a reduction in these capacities and layoffs of workers, which is certainly not the ultimate intensity, is not the goal and is not the interest of either the promoters or all of us. When it comes to the capacities of special rehabilitation hospitals, the information we have is that about 50% of the capacity is being filled in on the market, and about 50% of the capacity is being negotiated with the Republic Health Insurance Office. This proposal provides that those who are budgetary users of capacities in the past of the contract with the Republic Health Insurance Office must seek the consent of the Minister and this approval shall be issued for a period of up to one year. For a year, I would say, one short term for long-term business plans, and on the other hand, the other entities that deal with catering, we think of resorts and homes, are freed or do not need this consent. This is the unequal position in which the institutions I spoke to other participants in tourism in the territory of the Republic of Serbia can be brought. We believe that the proposed amendments should be considered. There are amendments to the other parliamentary groups. The SPS-JS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to this law, the amendment and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We'll discuss this during the discussion in detail. I believe that a certain balance should be found between all amendments and the most rational and correct solution. It is not necessary to allow and to place all participants in tourism in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in an equal position. It might be better to discuss this significantly earlier, just before this legislative proposal entered into the congregation procedure and if we could in a certain way consider, listen to the objections and suggestions made by those to whom these amendments and amendments to the laws apply, or those to make amendments and amendments to the legislative proposal. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, it is predicted, as has been said several times today during the debate, that the headquarters of the Belgrade agency should move to central Serbia, with the possibility, as defined, of opening branches of agencies. I want to say that we support every proposal, every initiative, every measure that leads to decentralisation, but since the opening of the branches is mentioned, I need to remind myself of the necessary rationalisation that has started at the level of the state apparatus, so saving at the level of the state at times when we all feel the negative effects of the economic crisis should be a priority, and in this case and in this context, it actually means that there should be no new employment and there should be no increase of personnel in the state apparatus. This proposal, among other things, allows for the provision of export jobs on the domestic market, and extends the provision of guarantees, which we consider to be good. As is said, the proposal is drawn up in accordance with all of the world's export credit agencies or their experiences. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, it is therefore that the headquarters of the National Employment Service from Belgrade is moving to Kragujevac. I have already said that we support any measure that leads to decentralisation, in this case towards the deconcentration of institutions from the national level in order to, among other things, ensure more even development in the perspective. But what is essential when it comes to the work of the National Employment Service, or what should be the intensity of this institution, is a more effective way of intervening people's employment, because it is a priority and a most important task – to hire citizens of Serbia. When it comes to the latest legislative proposal that we are talking about today, the amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, we support this legislative proposal because first of all we want, by supporting this proposal, to support the objective which is sought by adopting this legislative proposal, and first of all, I am referring to the objectives relating to the promotion of exports and the development of infrastructure. It is true that the funds allocated to the Fund are relatively small and it is true that, in perspective and in some future, there is a need to think about how to strengthen and strengthen the Development Fund in this context, bearing in mind its importance and role. It has been said today about the even development of Serbia, and I would like to say that we will have a more balanced development if this practice and what we are talking about today, in terms of the deconcentration of state institutions, apply to other municipalities, and to other cities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course it's always good to talk about economic opportunities within Serbia, it's an extremely important topic. It is also true that the representative of the SPS-JS Parliament Club Mr Nikolic said in his opening statement that there are large differences between developed and undeveloped areas, lack of investment activities, that privatisation of the dispute and in a certain context is very bad, that we need one comprehensive control of all privatised enterprises, precisely because of the increasingly common negative sights. So, keeping all of this in mind, by dislocating certain institutions, we want to believe that, and we want to define that, how one first step and one final goal we want to achieve, which is a more even development in RS territory. We support all four legislative proposals, but we suggest that when it comes to the Bill of Amendments and the Supplements of the Tourism Act, we conduct one debate on the amendments proposed and we find one compromise both the most realistic and correct solution, bearing in mind the interest of all those who deal with tourism in the territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45916	With the apology of the members and all the MPs, the MEP group was listed and it is the only correct title. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us four legislative proposals and some additions to the bill. I'll tell you right now that you're reuniting something that can't be connected. But what is it, it's here. When we talk about changes and additions, I will immediately say that last year the NS Parliament Club submitted an amendment that you did not accept, if you had accepted it, we would have saved time on Article 4, so it's just as if maybe it wasn't deliberately accepted. Well, my God, since we often change laws, something that's good, we'll propose it after six, seven or eight months as our own, and it's about Article 4, when we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Development Fund Act, when virtually state-owned enterprises are involved. That may be the only positive thing when we talk about this law and we can't not say it. But we've seen it a long time ago and I can't help but say it. I will spend the whole time right on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. It's just that there are some things that we absolutely disagree with. First of all, why is the Fund moving to Nis? Why is this agency being made in Uzic? And right away, for the citizens of Nis and Užica, to say that New Serbia absolutely has no objection to these landscapes being developed evenly. That's good, but it would be good if it were essentially some agency that I'm related to some industrial part, where we have certain personnel and what would be perfectly logical is that it would be there. Madam Minister, we wouldn't mind the agency being in Triestenik, for the First Five-year-old to live, for something to happen where there are specialized personnel. We are practically under the impression that precisely these shifts to Nis and Uzice are one political marketing, apparently the elections are close and that it is necessary to stain the eyes of Serbia's citizens once more, as was done before the last elections when it came to a thousand euros of action. Question is, why didn't we just do it last year, but wait a year? That's one essential question. If conditions were to be secured, that law would be applicable as soon as this one came into force. In Article 1, we directly believe and have submitted an amendment that point 6 should be deleted, for the reason that there are specialised public enterprises and funds for infrastructure and there is no reason to stand this incentive, because there are certainly other ways to address this problem. What is particularly important for the Fund is that part of which we have submitted the second amendment, which is in Article 8 relating to Article 22(1) which is to be amended and said – the Fund submits twice a year a report to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not four times. In principle, even when we passed this law, we had objections to why, for the first time in the history of the Fund, the chairman of the board of directors became Minister of Economy, because since the Fund exists, it has always been the prime minister of state? It's always been such a story that has passed, but it's still practically centralized and the power of a minister can be seen through this Article 8. Why does the Fund's director need four times to report to the Minister of Economy? The new Serbia believes, and we have asked for our amendment, that the report, regardless of what is in the hands of the Minister for Economy, should be submitted to the government, for the simple reason that through the submission of the report to the Government and the Minister for Economy, as well as to all other ministers, and you cannot say that it is not important that other ministers should not be familiar with what is happening in the Fund, because there is certain that there is part of the activity of the Fund that is incurring to other ministries through the approval of the loan. We think it's absolutely logical and there's no reason why the report can't be submitted to the government, because the government is a cap in this country, so there's no reason to file with the minister. In addition, for purely practical reasons, why four times and all to keep it that way, will the Fund's director just deal with the Fund by preparing the report? I think it's all right for you to accept the amendment to make it once a year. If for some reason, it's twice a year a ceiling. We really believe that the director will only deal with this, to file reports. What will Nisha citizens get from going to Nis? Of course, they'll get it that the Development Fund is closer to that site. As counterpart Krasic said about this other agency, some will now be difficult and distant. What's essentially going to get if they stay the same employee, now we have a situation, to give an example in the government, currently at the Ministry of Agriculture every day full bus employees outside the ministry go to Shabac to work. It takes them two hours, depending on the crowd, an hour and a half, no matter. What do the people of Capca have of it, except for the proximity of it, in some essential part? The employees of that ministry are extremely hard, because that's where mothers, women, and someone who has to travel so much. Not to be tenant, we also have this judicial reform. Now the judges can't function anymore, because they're practically dealing with how to get to a remote city, how to travel, winter goes. That, Minister, absolutely collects expenses. He collects expenses and then for some other things he won't be given. We saw, specifically, in this situation, this strike that was in the judiciary, as it ended. I don't want this Nisham or Uzica thing, practically, to get into a situation so quickly that we can re-change the law for some reason, to show it might not be good. Once again, as I said, I liked to see things like this through decentralisation really essentially detach towards an environment that has infrastructure, which has some great giant that has its own personnel, and then we would believe that there is a real intention of the state to bring some centers back to life, that there are human beings, etc. That you will formally move something from Belgrade to Nis, and then, as we see in the district units, it will probably remain in Belgrade of the regional unit, so that the fund will, I suppose, remain in the same building, and there will be great costs again, and now there will be great costs in Nis, or what is now going to be left in Uzice in Belgrade, etc. Basically, it doesn't solve the problem. When it comes to this agency in Uzica, there is a purpose if something really important is involved through infrastructure, through a state institution in a particular city. I'm afraid these changes will only be pure cosmetics, just to show that something needs to be changed. It's not really going to change anything. Basically, this is just one classic political marketing, because the elections, no matter when they will be, are approaching our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45918	The word is from Ambassador Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45919	Dear Minister, respected associates, respected MPs, I will immediately address the question – whether this is political marketing or not and whether it has political messages or not. He's got political messages. We're a political party. We were part of a wide-ranging pre-election coalition for European Serbia, which was trusted by citizens to lead the country in the next four-year period. Of course, each of the parties that was part of that pre-election coalition has its own policy in government because we have received support from citizens. With the policy results we are implementing in the government, we will go to the next parliamentary elections. We have no intention of hiding behind institutions and saying we have no policy. We're doing this by proposing these laws here today and what's part of our political engagement. We believe that the results of such a policy allow and will allow citizens of Serbia to move faster towards the EU, better use of EU funds, and thus all contribute together to bringing this country closer to a modern, normal and civilised state, which is probably the goal of all of us. When we talk about regions, of course we have no ambition to have a monopoly on this issue and on this subject, and let's say -- we are the only ones who know that we are facing the problems of Serbia's regionalisation. We have no intention of waiting for some general political consensus, when all political parties will agree and say – now it is a topic, now we can talk about regions and regional policy. We have taken responsibility to come up with concrete solutions, in which way Serbia should meet the problem that would be solved, whether we talk about it or not. The data we heard at the beginning of the presentation on how the proportions in Serbia's development, in unemployment, are paid to cry for Serbia to do something about it. It's something that's waiting for us on our way to the EU. It is something that we cannot solve when pressure comes from the EU and when they tell us – now you have to do something that your country has a more even regional development. Then we say -- now maybe it's a deadline, by the end of what year, to do something about it. We're going to meet that problem. The programme that we will implement in the next few weeks is a general political programme for Serbia's regionalisation. Don't lie to each other. Without politics, there's no regionalisation of Serbia. There must be a political party and political parties, the political will of Serbian citizens to make regionalisation happen. This comes with economic effects and all the advantages that Serbian citizens should have with the regionalisation process. If we can't do everything right now, if we can't immediately change the Constitution, introduce new regions, we can do what's possible now. These steps, which some today have called political marketing, are something that is a realistic political step, and that is one clear political decision to deconcentrate the authorities, that in Serbia for the first time, if you need support for export, you go to Užice. If you want support for your small or medium-sized enterprises from the Development Fund, go to Nis, if you want to see what happens to employment, go to Kragujevac. If you're interested in the problem of regional development, you're going to Zajecar. It's not much and it's no strategic turn-off in this country, but it is something. It is the first step that will determine, I'm sure, this process is going in that direction that it can no longer go back. Of course, when we talk about it and about the deconcentration of institutions, our mission is not to share the poor equally and to say – Serbia is poor and now little or nothing, we give it to everyone that they have nothing. It is our wish and our goal is to raise our capacities in all parts of Serbia, to have tomorrow's official in Leskovac or Zajecar, or in Subotica, as my colleague said "knowledge how" to access European funds, not to be a centralised state where all projects will be written in Belgrade, where all the money will be collected in Belgrade and later distributed in Serbia. In addition, the EU philosophy is such that there is no centralised distribution of funds. If we want Serbia to be, for example, like Poland, which has withdrawn 80 billion euros from EU funds from 2004 to 2010, it is a country that has used 100% of the EU funds, then we need to think today about what capacity we expect Serbia's EU bid, which, hopefully, is on the agenda next year. If it's political marketing, then it's okay and we're not running away from it. But if we don't do this job or the ministers from our government party, someone else has to work, they have to work ministers from another party in this or another government. Make sure the last thing we do is make a political project out of it. Will citizens appreciate what we're doing on this issue, it will show the next election, but we can't say that because someone thinks it's political marketing, we don't want to do our job. If someone is the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, he must do the job, if the job works well, then of course he has more support as a minister and his party headed by him. Is that political marketing? In that sense, it is, but political marketing which means that something concrete you've done for this country, you're distracting people from supporting you in some of the next elections. It's very simple and we don't run away from it. When it comes to regionalisation, it is often, and this is a very important issue for Belgrade lawmakers, it is often a question of what the benefit is for Belgrade, whether it is taking something that belongs to Belgrade, whether Belgrade is losing in the process of regionalisation and what the effects will be for the citizens of Belgrade, our capital, which is certainly a development centre that drives all of Serbia. I am sure that Belgrade will also be a significant winner in the regionalisation process because by defocusing institutions, by creating capacity for other parts of Serbia to develop faster in the next period than Belgrade is developed, and anyone who has seen this new development plan for Serbia over the next 10 years clearly sees that it is necessary for regions in Serbia to develop unbalancedly in order to reach as much as possible a civilizational level of development that will be acceptable to all. So Belgrade will be a winner because it will not be in the coming period of an attack on Belgrade, because it directly affects the everyday life of people, traffic, employment, in the ultimate line of quality of life. It's one project where we're doing this deconcentration today for which we're going to fight, we're making a small but first and very important and symbolic step. We make it clear to the citizens of Serbia that this is a process that has been initiated by deconcentration, which is a process that involves changing many laws, at the very end of the line, that is a process that includes changing Serbia's Constitution. Whether we will be in the government that will make the decision will give its word to the citizens of Serbia, and that decision will be made in the next few years in Serbia, that is absolutely certain. It is important to say that we are not for some kind of egalitarianism and that we are not fighting for some Serbia where we say – here, in 10 years, the unemployment rate will be the same as in Old Town or in Novi Sad, etc. It is impossible, every country has a region that is more advanced, which has better economic indicators, which draw forward, but it is our obligation that through the state, through agencies, through funds, through ministries, through political action in the end line we provide everyone in Serbia an equal chance to vote tomorrow for domestic funds that are small and for EU funds that are much larger. When we do that, when we let people have the same chance, that's where our job and our mission ends. After that, everything is in the hands of local, regional officials, citizens, not only of the officials, but also of other people who will be involved in different types of projects that will support the EU, and then we will be able to say that we have kind of circled and completed the work of regionalisation. That day is not so close, but today, by adopting these laws, we are still taking the first step that is small, but has never been done before. It could have been done in 2001, 2002 or 2005 or 2010 etc. It's done today. So, it's not spectacular but it's very concrete and the fact is that for the first time we will have institutions that have been centralized or in Belgrade, located in other parts of Serbia. Many criticisms have been made, but it remains our call for everyone to make their proposals, their ideas. We can't do regionalization on our own, we can't do it on our own. We expect the support of all democratic political parties in Serbia, their ideas and proposals and only through joint action on the subject can we address this problem as it will be best in the interests of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45920	11 minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45921	I wanted to point out a gap that is observed between Mrs Kalanovic's statements that these are huge problems that are listed. Let's say, when it comes to privatisation, that numerous privatisations of companies are completely unsuccessful, that they were privatized and that they became state-owned enterprises again. The Fund Act is being amended so that they can now refinance from this same Fund and state-owned enterprises, and even those with 40% social ownership. I say we're spinning, Mrs. Kalanovic, in a circle. So when you fail with privatisation, you solve this problem by now creating state property again and giving it back to state-owned enterprises. It's called chasing your own tail. If you've listed the regional differences, if you've listed the pay gaps, if you've specified how huge unemployment is, you could have added poverty, you could have shown a million more of these indicators. What are the solutions to that? Three laws where physically, and Mr. Senic calls it some kind of modernization, you physically change their place. Well, when I apply to a particular project on the Internet, what am I going to chase into Nis in general, which someone is going to chase into Belgrade. You define it territorially, you define it by calling it deconcentration, which will transfer the concentrated Dinkic to Nis, a little bit in Belgrade. There's concentration, not physical concentration. To be what he says, it means that an autonomous Niš Development Fund is being established for southern Serbia, where Mr Dinkic and you do not participate. Then we've done decentralisation and deconcentration, because decentralisation, ma'am, means decentralisation of power. Power doesn't decentralize here. We're not oxes, I'm still a doctor of sociology, to teach me what deconcentration is. There's no deconcentration of power. So, if you were then training municipalities, that you returned property to municipalities, that you trained local communities to take over development, you're doing physical space, and then you're saying that a man really goes crazy. To transfer the national employment institution to Kragujevac and say – then it will be close to employment. Mrs Kalanovic, the employment rate does not depend at all on the National Employment Service. Do you know, there's supposed to be a need for labour, there's got to be an economic development to be employment, not a variety of agencies, so wherever she is, she can't hire anyone. She only comes when she offers him jobs. You've got these employment agencies everywhere, and that's what Kragujevac has to do with it. Those people have not run to Belgrade before. To whom this deception serves and to whom a story like this serves. Instead of showing us that this is what anyone can see is really the property of one ministry. We've never had a public debate about this issue. How can we really be serious about the deconcentration of power and power, how to go to decentralisation, how to really have regionalization. No, but when a party is called the United Regions, then we will make branches and strike a blow, this is what I consider a blow to Serbia's political system. It's already started in the municipalities with the purchase of votes. There's no more elemental five-octobaric results on why we fought. We had authoritarian authority, we didn't have fair elections, but we don't have them now. You're talking about political parties, about party financing. You've now patented the system to finance yourself through the state. Now you're going to open branches, you're going to hire your people, you're going to go to poor neighborhoods, and these people, experts love the poor, and they're going there to buy them. And you present it to us through three laws that are completely pointless. What does it have to do with inciting exports, chasing someone into the Uzice across that highway where your head's always in your bag? Well, that's incomprehensible. Or, in Washington when you have the National Library in Congress, let's move to Alaska, so that's decentralisation. Excuse me, let me tell you something, it's primitiveism, not decentralisation. So it's really one of the most common tricks, and then I noticed that you have a policy that punishes people. If, like, "Hemofarm" from Vrsac asks for a few million help, who doesn't get it? Why? Because he refused Dinkic to have his regional party enter the URS. As soon as she doesn't accept it, there's no money from this fund of yours. You know what, I'm saying, it's a shame that we're even thinking about such superficial things in the Internet era, where you say physically -- no, now we're not going to run to Belgrade, nobody should run. Now we're all going to run to Nis. What do we do now? After you've brought it out, I'd transfer your ministry with all your associates and send it to the Shop, and you'll go there to promote that development in the Shop, not to sit here in Belgrade, go to the Shop. Transfer the Ministry to Trade, I think it would be best to see from that most underdeveloped part of what you would do there and what your results would be. Secondly, let me tell you, we have now seen from exposure that there are a large number of people, and other colleagues have said that, mines we can allow to create this kind of chaos from our country. You see, there's some people working here, we've seen what they're doing, what they're spending money on. The big problem is now what's going to happen? Do you want those people who are here to fire everything, and then you're going to hire some people locally, not to mention which parties they're going to come in from and what the real motive is. But anyone who's not crazy sees what your motive is here, because this isn't going to contribute to anything, to deconcentration, or to decentralisation, because what's the essential thing here, nothing has ever been done seriously. Please, will they put you on trains, busses, and break heads where they're employed, run to Uzice? Every day there's a job there. Or will you fire them? What's going to happen to these people? What kind of personnel have you prepared there? Are you planning to fire these 40 people from this national service in Belgrade or are they going to run to Kragujevac every day? You know what, it's chaos and no result. You say in this law – they will be closer to the Kragujevac employment. What difference does it make, what's called the National Employment Service, where is she physically? It can be physical in London, it doesn't matter. But especially since those in Kragujevac have never run to Belgrade before to get a job. Second, it's a transfer. I don't see why you've ever taken such a thing to do, where you've now, I say, contributed to us seeing that these little rules that exist are going to be completely torn down by crazy ideas like this, where you move a few institutions, where you, as the owners of the ministry, will put both employment and tourism. We know that every time the Ministry project was made according to the wishes of a party, how much it takes for it to have the ministry, so we had before that the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad, but when Dinkic became a minister, since he was a finance minister, then this is how the ministry has to be fat and be a fat pig, to be in that ministry, to satisfy his appetites. Is that a country? The ministries should be institutions, they should be empty rooms, when the government is changed, we should enter the same rooms every time, not every time by coalition agreement, share everything that's people's, everything that's civil and everything that's public. I say, it's nice to have more parties, but when you ask in Germany why they green and on which basis they like to have more parties, because the citizen has more options, that if he has a green party, then he's going to enter something out of his program, which is his priority in the national programme, and not by sitting around to share boards, to share employment, to share institutions, to share ministries, I don't know what you didn't share. It's not what Serbia's future is. If you decided to do it, to cheat on us this way, that people in Kragujevac will be hired now because you gave the national service, so you transfer the National Museum to Gajin Han, that might be best, so that people have a chance to do it. This, believe me, is not the way. This is just a hoax. I'm ashamed to be present today where something is called decentralisation, even deconcentration, when this is all centralized, except it needs to be one man, one party who's going to manage to collect some votes and to ensure that the next time it's in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45922	Since I am convinced that democracy is obeying regulations, and since it is 15.00 hours, I am setting a break of one hour, according to Tuesday, and at 16.00 hours, we will be joined by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since today is the last Thursday of the month and in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia by today's letter is, according to Article 205(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not been able to attend today's session: Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Jovan Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Regional Development, Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, Petar Škundric, Minister of Mines and Energy, Dragan Sutanovac, Minister of Defence, Vuk Jeremic, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Snežana Samardzic, Minister of Youth and Sport. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP shall have the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual Minister or Government under their jurisdiction pursuant to Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated by the provisions of Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes, according to the fourth member of the Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority as set out in Article 6 of the same Rules of Procedure. An ordinarily raised parliamentary question by a representative of the Government, or the Prime Minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP in writing, within eight days of the date on which the question is asked, as referred to in Article 206(1). Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Article 216. Since these are new provisions in the Rules of Procedure, please all MPs and members of the Government pay attention to the repeated brief information on the procedure of the session today from 16:00 to 19.00. So every MP has the right to ask a three-minute question. The Government representative to whom the question has been referred has up to five minutes to answer or obligation to explain why he cannot give a comprehensive answer now, after which the MP has the right three minutes to comment on the Government's response or to ask an additional question, to which a representative of the Government can answer again for up to five minutes. After that, the MP declares his response within no longer than two minutes, and the government representative has no right to address the MP again after the comments or statements. Government officials say MPs have been given the advantage. People's MPs have the advantage all the time. They just don't demonstrate it often enough. I ask the MPs to file a request to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, so that, in turn, the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The first registered speaker is MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45924	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear members of the government, I have a question I thought I'd ask Mr. Dacic, but I'm still speaking to the government. I already presented the problem of the Bajramovic family from the village of Svirce municipality of Medvedja, whose two sons and two daughters, born in Sokobanja, cannot get their residence in Medvedja, where this family has their own property. Isuf Bajramovic, who worked long in Sokobanja, applied for family reunification and submitted all the necessary documentation to obtain residence for his children in his native village. In a response I received from Minister Dacic, it was said that a police station in Medvedja has reached a solution to reject the application for a residence in Bujirim, Aliji, Aphroditi and Fajrija Bajramovic because, as explained, Father Isuf moved to Gjilane in early 1999 and rarely comes to visit his estate in the village of Svirce and that the house is inexorable and abandoned. In response, the June 9th minister added that these persons had previously spoken abroad and as asylum seekers and did not show any intention to live in Medvedji. Here is not only the problem of the Bajramovic family, hundreds of families in 1999, and Minister Dacic mentions the beginning of 1999, we know what was happening in this dramatic time and that there are hundreds of families that were leaving at the time, especially the land zone of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje. For more than 10 years, this return has failed, because there are simply no conditions, as Mr Dacic said in response to the fact that houses are uninhabitable. However, now the fundamental question here is, if we have this situation that no return conditions are created, why are additional administrative problems created to prevent that return? Now I'm asking a question, born in Sokobanja, property in Medvedja, maybe it was in an asylum in a country, so do we have obligations to these citizens that they have residence, that they have personal documents, that they actually have the right to return where they have property, have a house? Is there even some obligation in this government to create conditions for these people to return there? Not to ask the question of administrative nature, are they now ultimately fulfilling this paperwork to achieve basic civil and human rights?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45925	It's been three minutes, I thank the People's Parliament. Do any of the government's representatives want to answer the question? Yeah. ) Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45926	I can only say that we will forward this additional question to Mr. Dacic. Surely the Republic of Serbia guarantees the same rights to all its citizens. Of course, I don't know enough about this individual case, so we'll ask around further.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45927	National MP Riza Halimi, right to comment or supplemental question, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45928	Mr. Djelic, I hope it's not just Minister Dacic, because this isn't just a police job, I think it's a comprehensive job, but the problem has been gained culmination through the MUP, which is directly involved in this administrative procedure. Otherwise, I would add a new question that is even more relevant these days. During the last week, owners of a vehicle with a Kosovo registration, who have a ID card issued in Medvedja, have returned to the police checkpoint and are not allowed to put test plates, which has been the practice so far. This is allowed for the citizens of Kosovo, but not for the citizens of Medvedja, who currently live, have no resolved status in Kosovo and who want to visit their hometown, their house and their test tables are not issued for unknown reasons these days. It's important that we know. Why, because I'm looking at this other problem is connected to the first one. Is there a strategy here or is there an arbitrary interpretation of certain services on the ground and then being brought, as you can see, by people in an unspeakable situation? They can't visit their homes, they can't visit their relatives, and people are born here, and I said for a moment that there must be more serious and urgent work to create conditions for their return to their hearths and holdings that follow them, according to all the positive laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45929	Do any of the representatives of the government want to answer the additional question of MP Riza Halimi or comment? In that case, the word has a People's MP, Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45930	I would like to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, since the prime minister is not here, and there is the vice president. Is the ruling coalition seriously considering Serbia at this point, solving some of the problems that have accumulated or will we continue to listen to stories that are completely unfounded? Are you aware that your primary goal is to employ a working population, to start production in many cities? Do you know that in many cities he does nothing of production? There are municipalities where no single company works, no businesses, just a municipality and some public service. With an inflation of about 10% today, with a euro that passed a record of 107 dinars this morning, with a million unemployed citizens, with a million and 600 pensioners, with 45 municipalities that have no money in the budget to survive, to warm schools, kindergartens, to clean up snow, to finish basic jobs, with an empty budget currently, with meat imports, with imports of eggs, with imports of milk, we are now a country that has nothing to export by the end of the year. Are you government gentlemen seriously considering resigning, calling elections, or doing some government reconstruction? Do you think there are ministers who didn't do their job that they promised? The promises were big. You're in charge of three construction seasons, and by the time we hear more of these stories about five thousand apartments, etc., how long are we going to listen, while e.g. In construction is the decline in production this year 12%? So, record inflation, a record euro. What else is there to do? Now you're going to say that you've achieved great success in the foreign policy plan. No, Mr. Djelic. You accepted that our resolution, which we voted here, was thrown into the trash basket, and you accepted someone else, and that was a condition for you to come here where you came from, but whoever did it would have ended as well. That was a condition. But these parameters, which I was talking about, need to be improved in order to think about the EU. The way we are, with 500,000 people being told, with 200,000 people who can't survive, with citizens who can't pay for electricity, we can't go to the EU for sure. The question, therefore, is whether you are considering reconstructing the government, finding a new team (President: Three minutes). ..to offer or resign and call the elections, which is correct and human, so that we don't mortify this country and this people?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45931	Do any of the Prime Ministers want to give an answer within five minutes? Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45932	Mr. Ilic, you're right, it's hard to live in Serbia today. Serbia was affected, as well as all other countries of the world, by the economic, financial crisis, which certainly did not start in our country, but was beginning to speculate on the US financial markets. The European Union will today and tomorrow at the Ministers' Summit, i.e. The prime minister and president have taken steps to resuscitate because of the major crisis that has hit them and we have seen that some of the countries that have been our neighbours, which have had major problems for some time. But for our citizens, it doesn't matter that much. What's most important is how you live in Serbia. The biggest problem in Serbia today is the unemployment rate. And the biggest problem today in Serbia is the fact that those who have a job are also worried about the possibility of preserving the job. We are very aware of this and therefore the Government of the Republic of Serbia will first rebalancing and then strengthen social measures and active employment measures in the 2011 budget. At the same time, of course, great activities are under way to attract as many investments as possible. We've seen a number of new factories open these days, new jobs form. Serbia today has, in a relative sense, the fastest growth in the region since around 1.9% this year, but unfortunately, this growth does not allow a significant reduction in the unemployment rate for now. This is the government's big goal for the coming months, this trend, which has been imposed by the economic crisis, to be first stopped as is the case now, and after that unemployment rate, especially among young people, and especially in less developed municipalities, to be reduced. The government of the Republic of Serbia, together with the National Bank of Serbia, has made significant efforts to stabilise inflation and oscillate the course of the euro, i.e. The dinar. Nearly three billion euros have been used over the past two years for this purpose. As we can see, as far as the dinar course is concerned, it has been stable over the past few weeks and months, in the last few days, there has been some movement, but the National Bank of Serbia has informed us that it will take very active measures to stabilise the market in that area. Of course we're thinking about what's going on in Serbia. All members of the government are constantly visiting Serbia. None of us are sitting in the cabinet. Although my portfolio is Europe and science, over the past month I have visited about 20 municipalities in Serbia and especially those where living hard. From Aleksinac, Babusnica, via Novi Pazar, Piroth and other places, and it is true that we will have to think carefully about the number of privatisations that have not yielded a local result. There have been several initiatives, but I think we are also expecting to find new strategic investors in certain situations. At this point, we must make an effort to preserve the stability that has been achieved over the past few years. In Serbia today is not living the way we would all like to live, but this government has ensured macroeconomic stability. We weren't the subject of speculative attacks. Our financial system had such stability that it didn't have to be recapitalised. Our budget deficit is at a level of 4.7% this year and next year's budget will allow it to be reduced to 4% and this government, after paying back the debts to the passengers of some 300m euros that we came from the previous government, has hired additional substantial funds, has rounded 1.4 billion euros to build Corridor 10 and a series of other arrangements. For example, with Turkish partners to be able to build a highway to the border towards Montenegro and believe that at this moment of the economic crisis, although it is no consolation for our citizens, in a relative sense Serbia is better, but I repeat, we are very aware of the problem of unemployment. The problem of unemployment is Serbia's central problem today and thus the central problem and the issue that will be addressed by our government in months and in the year left in the mandate to deal with it. As for the market, it is not true that there is no meat and eggs in Serbia. It is true that there have been certain disturbances in the dairy market, the government has adopted a regulation which obliges producers to target at least 40% of their production towards fresh milk for use. We will continue to respond through very concrete measures to the very specific and serious problems our citizens have in their daily lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45933	National MP Velimir Ilic, right to comment or supplemental question, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45934	You know how, I meant facts. You have commended the government here that it has made extraordinary efforts, etc. I remind you, Mr. Vice President, for the first time, Serbia has more inflation than Albania. Albania, not to say other countries in the environment, has less inflation and much less than Serbia. What's he saying? That we are not on such a good path, that there is no good macroeconomic policy in the country, that imports are extremely large, that there is no incentive to reduce imports. It was said that there would be incentives in agriculture, subsidies, everything, that imports of milk powder completely destroyed the production of milk. We talked about it here, warned in parliament several times, that there would be meat shortages, that the cattle stock was completely destroyed. Does the Minister of Agriculture feel responsible for such a thing? For the first time in history, Serbia imports pork, chicken meat. It's true, oil, it's impossible, milk from Germany, import milk. Therefore, it is all something that must simply be thought and discussed on this subject very seriously in the government. I can't understand that the funds intended to stimulate exports are spent on other things, you're dealing with creation here, we're talking about the economic crisis in the world, and we're dealing with some administrative regions, we're making parties, we're making leaders, we're moving one office from town to town, and something's going on. However, no one is working on these issues and these issues are not being resolved. Serbia's debts are extremely high. You're talking about previous governments. There weren't this many debts. Here, take three billion from the IMF for the stability of the dinars. So, corruption, here we are at the top of Europe, at the top of the world. What did it do? How many coalition partners and people at the top of the government have private businesses, how many companies work for public enterprises and for various agencies and institutions in Serbia? It's a record in Europe, a record in the world, and it's all out there. Do you believe that you have people sitting here with you, who have 400 machines that work for public enterprises and they're all paid by advance, do you expect us here to tax you now? There's no getting out of the crisis until these issues are settled. Questions you don't give the right answer to, you don't do anything. Is it possible, and you participated in Mr. Djelic's privatisation, you bought a hotel in Sokobanja with Baj, a former police minister and his brother. Why didn't you buy some other hotel that was in worse shape, where you just found Sokobanja? You didn't know how to choose, did you? Therefore, you must remove all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45935	People's MP, the time for comment has been used, thank you. Do any of the government's representatives want to give an answer to the supplemental question? Here you are, Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45936	When we talk about corruption, the two directors of the public enterprise are currently under investigation not only, but arrested, Putov and Railways. We'll see, it's up to the investigative authorities to see what these directors from the previous government did or didn't do, so corruption needs to be talked about. As for the situation on the market, of course Serbia, which will have a record export of agricultural products this year, is not a country whose agriculture is weak. There are certain problems that are convulsive and that we will face and, as I said, the government has already taken energy measures in that direction. Serbia this year has an increase of around 19% in its exports. Serbia will have a growth in its economy of about 2%. We expect 3% next year and we see, in recent months, I can tell you from direct contacts with a large number of investors that there is significant interest, especially from EU countries, but also from other regions of the world, to exploit the potential of our country. So it is true that the situation is difficult, it is the same that, as I said, the problem of unemployment is the central problem of our country today, but at the same time it is not necessary to show incomplete and incorrect facts. The Republic of Serbia has gradually come out of the most difficult crisis that has ever existed, which has been seen by the world since World War II, even in the '30s. Pensions are paid regularly, pensioners get the promised one-time help we talked about. The same was true of people from the administration before the flight. What we said, which is that, as a burden, it will first and foremost suffer the state through a certain reduction in the number of employees, it has happened at national and local level. So this is a difficult period, but surely Serbia will manage to get through in a better way than many other neighbours it has at this point. It's not a compliment or a compliment that someone can give themselves, it's a fact. Serbia has had a lower economic downturn than any of its neighbours, Serbia today has faster growth than any neighbour. That's relatively good, but I repeat, it's not enough yet to significantly reduce the unemployment rate. This is the next goal of our government, to reduce the unemployment rate, especially for young people and especially for those living in less developed municipalities, to reduce the unemployment rate, that is our goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45937	People's MP Velimir Ilic wants to make a statement about the answer. Here you go, up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45938	I'd like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister not to present false information. The director of Serbia's Roads has not been arrested and the director of Serbia's Roads, if there is justice, will be released, because everything is regular, there is no element of the indictment, and that is certain. Director of Railways, he hasn't been found any mistakes, he's been in jail for six months, and the question is, how are you going to justify now when you have to release him? The directors you arrested from Shinvos, Jelvos, the Zelturist, you released everything without criminal charges, without criminal prosecution elements. These were political arrests and revenge on the one you carried out. Imagine now, Mr. Djelic, your party that you belong to only one VIP salon has 18 people arrested. You're avoiding these trials to finally begin. Only at the airport is a VIP salon that's 20, 30, 40 squares. Imagine you were working the highway? I think prisons would be small for all those who would get there. Therefore, you must take a little account and remember, you will be the opposition again very soon and you should not treat these political arrests like this. I'd like to see what you're going to say when you have to release Charancic, director of the railroad. There's not one element for criminal charges, that's what the lawyers say and that's what the judges say. So, consult some of your colleagues and don't jump into those arrests, it's going to come back very quickly to your head. And you didn't even talk about your company in the Netherlands about buying the Soccer? Maybe that was transparent, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45939	Thank you, People's Messenger. You've used your right to MP questions. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic, followed by MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, I would like to inform you that the Roma community of internally displaced persons from Kosovo from the camp Cesmin Lug was returned to the southern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, where they built houses, adequate for their housing, despite their will they had to accept. Also, the move of camp Osteroda from Kosovo Mitrovica, where one half wants and does not want, and the other half does not want to move to dislocation at all, regardless of what kind of housing it will be, they do not want to go to the south of Kosovo. Also, I would like to inform the ministry that the camp in Leposavic, where there is also a large number of Roma, under no circumstances, that they want to move to the south and that is categorically said. Please, we don't have to force people, no matter what standard of life, housing, absolutely immeasurably better, but they don't want to go there. Unless the Roma want out of these unsanitary settlements, where it's terrible for life, below all minimums, please don't make those people go there, no matter what's better. Also, I want to inform you, I was in Bujanovac on behalf of the Democratic Left of Roma five months ago, at Shaip Kamberi, he is the president of the Bujanovac municipality. We have the settlement Morava 76 and Miroslav Nojkovic Sale, where there is no asphalt. I believe that the Roma community and we Roma in this country have historical significance with the Serbian people and that not everything should be laid down on the Roma people. I know it's hard today both in the state and in the Serbian people, but believe me, the Roma live beneath every margin. Please and appeal, let's see that the Roma get asphalt, infrastructure and live like all other citizens. Only where the Roma are there are no asphalts. I also want to underline, we have a Salvatore camp, where there have been internally displaced faces for many years. When we were in Bujanovac, there was also a delegation from the Commissioner for Refugees and they said openly – we have money for dislocation of this camp and we want to invest money to build houses, but we need dislocation. Now, when someone offers, when the state provides opportunities not to live in the most miserable conditions, how Roma children and Roma people live, to this day (President: Three minutes). ) the streets were not paved, although it was promised that in June and that it was in the program to pave the way, none of it will exist. Finally, I would like to ask Mr. Minister Obradovic, who knows that he is very careful about education, to inform me that according to the programme of the Republic of Serbia, which was prescribed by the Government in Serbian, the programme of the Republic of Serbia, in towns, enclaves of Plemetina, Prilužje, Leposavic, Kosovo Mitrovica, Laplje village, Gracanica, Caglavica, Kosovo Kamenica, Gjilana, a large number of Roma live.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45941	People's MP, it's four minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45942	I'm finishing up; they don't have books or the most basic things to learn. If we want to integrate the Roma people, the state must, this society must help. The Democratic Left is appealing to the state and to power, gentlemen, to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45943	I ask all Members of the People's Parliament not to repeat the provisions of the article. 204, 205 and 207, to take a look at the Rules of Procedure, so clearly formulated questions within three minutes, can be tolerated for 15 or 30 seconds, but please do not force me to interrupt you in such an important business, because we abuse the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it can be clearer, and I'm really asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure. Does a representative of the government want to respond? (Yes) Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45944	Mr Damjanovic, as you probably know, I am also president of the National Council for Roma Inclusion. The issue of Roma is both ethics and real politics. The issue of ethics is that according to the last 2002 census in our country, there are officially 108,000 members of Roma nationality. The reality is that he probably lives two to three times as many members of the Roma minority. We will know much better next year when a censorship under the auspices of the Republic Bureau of Statistics is being prepared by Roma researchers, who will ensure that, for example, in other illegal settlements, researchers go to the right picture, which is also numerical, demographic, but also economic and social, in the way everyone in Serbia lives, and also members of the Roma minority. Unequivocally, they're extremely difficult to live on. Their lifetime is 10 to 15 years shorter than the majority people. Two-thirds of Roma minorities are estimated to live in unsanitary settlements, in any case, not in the way anyone should live today in the 21st century in Europe. Thus, the issue of the inclusion of the Roma minority is the issue of ethics, but also the question of real policy, because the lack of Roma inclusion has its own particular economic cost. Serbia has no strong demographics. Anyone with youth, strength, if used to the maximum of his and his capacities will contribute to our economy, to our country. That is why it is our moral obligation, not only but also the interest of Serbia, that the Roma minority be integrated in the right way, not assimilated, but integrated. That is why we see this crisis that is currently taking place in Europe on the issue of the Roma minority, the crisis that started with certain actions of France before summer and we had opportunities as a delegation of the Government of Serbia, which I led last week on Wednesday in Strasbourg, when a debate on Roma inclusion was first organised, we see that Europe gradually becomes aware that this largest minority of some 12 million inhabitants has specific problems that must first solve countries where Roma live, but also where one response is needed at European level. We are encouraged that the Prime Minister of Hungary, the country that will chair the EU in the first half of next year, has announced that Roma inclusion and the adoption of a European strategy for Roma will be one of the three priorities of Hungary during their presidency. The Republic of Serbia has performed specifically. It comes concretely by adopting, as you probably already know, the Strategy and Action Plan and what we have today from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of local self-government, concrete actions. For example, 100 million dinars from the National Investment Plan budget are aimed at infrastructure problems of the Coordination Body. Also, we have specific programmes, probably my colleague Obradovic will want to say more in the area of education, which is heading towards that path. What encourages me as someone who often visits Roma settlements, the key question asked by parents of Roma children is not the question of money, right away. Of course, money is a problem of employment, as is the case for all the other citizens everywhere, but the question they always ask me is the question of textbooks and books for their children, because the Roma minority, like all of us here, is well aware that the right solution to the inclusion of education and the possibility of getting a good job through that education. Serbia has run two 36m-euro projects, and we expect the IPA Committee at EU level to approve them in December, one for employment, the other for providing cheap housing, for everyone, not just for the Roma, for all citizens of our country who have social problems. We expect that, with the support of our European partners, starting with our budget, local budgets, we will continue certain trends that are seen and that are positive, for example. The increase in the number of Roma children, which formally enters, and more importantly, remains in our education system, the security of 150 Roma educational assistants. Here, I was in one school in Ada, and we saw specifically with teachers and children that all those children who had the opportunity to get the support of one such assistant had grades that were either average or above average. There's no curse or inability. I think it will be important to be very energetic. ) and be able to work together on the inclusion of Roma, which is also an ethical issue, but also a question of the naked interest of our nation as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45945	Does MP Jovan Damjanovic want to make a comment and an additional question? Yeah. ) Up to three minutes, Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45946	I thank you for your presentation which is very important for the Roma community. I believe what you're saying is that we're going to, as they say, from theory to practice. We have sent one record and already wants a delegation to come to you for a conversation about all these events about the Roma community, international decade, inclusions, etc. Thank you. I believe that we will also support all your programmes which are priorities for the Roma community and for its integration in our democratic state of Serbia. Also, Mr. Obradovic, you will also have a delegation present a lot of things. I know you don't know that. I know you're a man who wants to help, not just the Roma community, but your children, all the citizens who attend school, but there are a lot of things that happen in local self-government and we don't know it down there, so I hope we'll do something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45947	Does a representative of the government want to give an answer? Yeah. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45948	A colleague, Damjanovic, referred a question to me in the first part of his address. I'd like to add something to what my colleague Vice President Djelic said. You have noticed that through the laws we have adopted over the past two years we have achieved a normative assumption that has shown its success in practice to increase the number of Roma community members in the education system because our strategic assessment, and this has now proved a good result, is that children are involved in the education system, to get better education and to base them on future success in life. At the level of pre-school education and education, we have created conditions and we can now say, after a year of application, that the number of children of Roma community members in pre-school institutions has increased, that the number of children of Roma community members at the level of primary and secondary education has increased. A colleague named Djelic mentioned teaching assistants. Together with the OSCE, we secured their payment. We created a professional basis in the course of last year and we planned in the 2011 budget funds for teaching assistants and their work in the education system. What's important is we take various affirmative actions related to student accommodation and students, I must say, members of the Roma community. My colleague Svetozar Ciplic and I agreed to share some of the funds for the action. We're waiting for the Ministry of Finance's consent, so we'll make it happen. I must tell you that tomorrow we will have one meeting with Mr. Antic where we will talk and see who all candidates are for the use of student standard services, because we have different data, so we thought it best to do tomorrow and see who's using it so that there is no abuse of that right. When it comes to free textbooks, you know that first and second grade students get those textbooks, but the fact is that we are not one category of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and some members of the Roma community are socially endangered categories, they paid particular attention. No, we led this action at the level of the entire state, for all first and second grade students and now we already have 160,000 students who have received free textbook sets, and another kind of social assistance that includes the acquisition of textbooks in certain environments we provide through the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I know that both counterpart Bogdanovic at the level of Kosovo and Metohija as a resolute minister took many actions to resolve the issue, so we do everything when you look systematically to increase the number of minority members and to get the best education as a condition for future progress in life. If necessary, we will meet with members of the Roma community, because personally I think what makes the state is just one side of the story. We must also have strong support among the Roma community, among the representatives of the Roma community, that there is no certainty among them, any kind of division on any basis but that we all buy together, together with the state on this strategic goal that members of the Roma community should not be assimilated but be integrated into the system and that there are as many of them as possible, especially with good education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45949	National MP Jovan Damjanovic, a statement of response, for up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45950	Minister Obradovic, thank you for your explanation. I believe all this stuff you said was like that. We know that the laws here have passed, and I believe that we will do something with common forces. One request. As we had health mediators who gave and how good results, please, in Kosovo we don't have any healthcare mediators, we have quite a sick Roma population, which is not very good. I also ask assistants for education as many as possible in certain cities, and I also pray in Kosovo because Kosovo is part of Serbia. We don't have any assistants there, we don't have any coordinators, so I'd like to ask the Minister to do something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45951	Once again the procedure is: the MP asks a question for up to three minutes, the government representative answers up to five minutes, the MP has the right to comment or an additional question for up to three minutes, the government representative answers up to five minutes. After that, the MP declares his response within two minutes, the government's representative has no right to comment. National MP Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45952	Thank you, Vice President. Don't be surprised you have to ring so often, just don't hold the government's attention because yesterday Mr. Dulic brought more from his ministry than we have today's minister, and we heard that the director wasn't arrested, but that's why he'll be released. We heard, this government, past government, sat together in government. We wanted a serious conversation on inflation, on the subject of the economic development plan by 2020. There are no prime ministers and I have to harm questions against ministers who were not in the previous government, because in the previous government they were different, so I say this is a contribution to the real degradation of parliament and it is not right for the government to come in such a small number because then it comes down to this kind of debate that we have heard. Anyway, there's a lot of talk about decentralisation. decentralisation means money, power and power to local self-government. We see examples of decentralisation through the village of some agencies in the interior where directors remain in Belgrade. What the LDP is giving us is the financing of European affairs, the financing of decentralisation, the financing and hypocrisy that basically makes the country go down on that European path, and now it's up to us alone. That's why I'm going to talk to Mrs Dragutinovic, she wasn't in the previous government, as I recall. It's about transfers to local self-government. That's the essence of decentralisation, I guess. The fact that some officials will be hired by a municipal board by a party when it is transferred by some agency could not be called European decentralisation. In the previous two years, non-intentional transfers to local self-government have been reduced by more than 40% or approximately 36.8 billion. Through a memorandum on the budget in the economic fiscal policy for next year, we brought it in August, i.e. The government brought it in August, the government predicted the amount of non-intentional transfers to be increased only by 2 billion dinars or 7.7% compared to 2009 and 2010. If so, this means that the actual transfers of non-intentional local self-government will be almost two-thirds lower than what is a legal obligation. The legal obligation in the Law on the financing of local self-government stands at 1.7% of GDP. Answer me if in next year's Budget Law this legal obligation will be respected, because simply, as much as it is a crisis, really no other segment of the government and the authorities have suffered such a bang as transfers to local self-government. The debts of local self-government towards the EPS, according to suppliers, according to the NIS, are even at stake by heating. That's terrible. Will legal obligations be respected, or should we change the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45953	Three minutes. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45954	Although I find it difficult to say that the Law on the financing of local self-government is unlikely to be respected even next year, because I can now conclude in terms of unchanged tax rates it will hardly be possible for local self-government transfers to be at a level of, say, 49 billion, how long should it be next year, if we respect this law. However, the finance ministry, together with the government in general, is about amending the property tax law. As you well know, that tax is a real local tax. When we talk about decentralisation, I really think that the biggest step in the decentralisation process was when the tax was administered by local self-government, which happened in 2007. Thanks to these changes, I am sure that local self - administrations will have significantly more money than they had, that is, than they have under existing law. The change itself, which is what we have focused on in the changes in this law, is that by 70% of families, the tax burden remains changed, but that's why 30% of those families that have the most valuable assets, significantly increase the tax burden on this tax, means on the basis of the property tax, which will certainly bring higher revenues to local self-governments. I agree that we should change the law, but as you know, there are a lot of incentives for different changes in times of crisis. In any case, what local self-government will end up getting, I suppose, is going to be more than the two billion that we planned with the Augustian memorandum, should also be observed as part of these changes that will take place with changes to the property tax law. To finish, as you know, budget rebalance is planned and the distribution of one billion dinars of transfers to the poorest municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45955	National MP Zoran Ostojić, right to comment and supplemental question for up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45956	If I understand you correctly, you say that local self-government will have a tax on property. The fact that you're going to tax the property of the 30% higher, the richer, it still has nothing to do with local self-government. These people are more, I'm sorry, do you think there's a Miskovic house in the Shop? This applies to Belgrade, possibly one or two cities where there are such, but generally, local self-government does not get money to function to the extent the law requires. The fact that the state is going to earn more taxes than it's going to charge more than the rich, let's call them that, that's nice. But it's still not a solution for those municipalities that are not generally economically sustainable and that depend, because you have a municipality, on average, I think 20% of their income depends on the transfer and you have over 50%. These municipalities, because of the lack of respect for this law, will, in principle, be the most lost, i.e. further degradation of life in these municipalities, and we are talking about, I don't know, dying cities, need a spatial plan to resuscitate the village, etc., and in practice, everything is happening the other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45957	The word is Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45958	I think in every municipality, whether it was a Shop or some underdeveloped or developed, there are enough rich people, in terms of people with valuable assets. It's a local tax in the hands of local authorities. Also, somehow we always forget that there are reduced transfers to local self-government, but there are also funding from a national investment plan that practically target municipalities and in some ways stimulate public works and capital projects in these municipalities. Reduced are transfers, on the other hand, you have the resources of a national investment plan that goes to those municipalities that have projects. I also want to say, this time, before the 2011 budget is adopted, I am the President of the Commission for the Finance of Local Self-Government and Transfer Distribution, I will indeed make a decision together with all the members of the Commission, and in the best interests of the poor municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45959	National MP Zoran Ostojić, a statement up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45960	As long as you didn't mention that national investment plan. The reduction of transfers, these municipalities depend more on the national investment plan. So this is how they get on their knees in front of that money. Basically, that money is used to paint schools, right? Or for making some new party. Will you return the property to the municipalities when the public property law is passed? These are essential things that need decentralisation, plus normal and original incomes, such as income from assets. If this is the government's policy to make up for reduced transfers through a national investment plan, then I really think we're at the mercy of a project called the URS or whatever it's called.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45961	Minister, you don't have a word. When the MP declares himself for up to two minutes, the government's representative has no right to comment. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. After him will be MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45962	I hope everyone knows that the National Assembly's decisions on Serbia's military neutrality are still in force. Recently, at various conferences scheduled and held by various NGOs and other gatherings, as well as by some official meetings of certain international organisations whose member is Serbia, various things are heard. For example, Wolfram Mas, the German ambassador to Serbia, said it was only a matter of time before Serbia becomes a NATO member. In a discussion at one of the recent conferences held here on the existence in Serbia, although it is quite negative for the NATO Pact. He said it normally because Serbian children and those who pass through Belgrade or live in Belgrade pass by the Prince of Michael's street, and learn that they are the ruins there that we see as the result of the NATO pact bombing, instead of teaching them the German children after 1945, that these ruins are the result of the crimes of Serbia and Serbian owners, and that NATO's pact was actually a "merciful angel". Well, that's no wonder who it comes from and how. My question to you, and I'm going to cut this short, proving that you don't have to take all three minutes to make use of it, is very specific. At a meeting in Belgrade, a subcommittee on the democratic rule of the NATO parliamentary assembly spoke of this accession. The NATO Pact's official site in parliament's assembly has published something about the event in Belgrade. In a further comment, authors, on the official NATO Pact site, say among other things, there is, of course, an advanced approach in Serbia when it comes to Serbia and NATO's approximation. As an example, State Secretary of Defence Dusan Spasojevic is using the following statement, which they say calls on NATO members of the pact to work together with Belgrade to sell NATO to Serbia. The term of sale has been used here in terms of urging Serbia or the public of Serbia to become a member of this military alliance. My question to you is simple and short, even though I've too much time, and I promised not to. Are you familiar with this statement and does this statement reflect the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if not what kind of convention will the State Secretary of Defence bear?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45963	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45964	Thank you. I don't know about that statement. In any case, there is only one thing, and that is the resolution that both your party and my party voted together here, that is that Serbia is a military neutral country and that is the policy of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia, such as the Russian Federation and many other countries, is participating in the NATO Partnership for Peace. Our country is working with that alliance within that framework. As you know, we will also participate in EU missions, wherever there is UN approval for them. We have started negotiations in general, forming two weeks ago at the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the appropriate team for these negotiations, to define with the EU the modes of such participation. In this way, Serbia will be an exporter of stability, exploiting the capacity that our security forces have, in a way that our European partners will value. So we are a sovereign country with a sovereign right to participate or not in certain integrations. This is also the case with the NATO issue and, as it is clear, any question of changing this doctrine would require a referendum on which our citizens should be declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45965	National MP Milos Aligrudic, right to comment and an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45966	I think you've only partially answered my question, that's my opinion, and that's how it disabling just the asked question. I've given you a very specific example and a very specific activity of the Secretary of State, and I've asked for a statement on this matter. You have answered in principle what the government policy of the Republic of Serbia is at the moment. Answering that question, in principle, in the form of a cross-sectional state, you are not answering the main question, which is the issue of the government's move, its representatives in certain bodies, at certain forums and publicising the ruling coalition for progressive NATO accession to the pact. It does not reflect the attitude of military neutrality, it does not reflect attitude, as military alliance is now an exclusive membership in the military alliance. I will remind you that what is often said here as, perhaps not by you personally, I did not listen to it from you, but people from the Ministry of Defence, such as Mr Sutanovac, who is not present today, often from other representatives of the government, that the logical conclusion of Serbia's integrated processes is actually in Euro-Atlantic integration. This means that EU membership must coincide with membership or at least later end with NATO membership. Such an impression was made by the people at this meeting, because in this NATO pact communiqué, it is their general impression that representatives of the ruling coalition at the meeting made the impression that they saw Serbia's membership in the NATO Pact as a completely natural end to the Euro-integration that we are talking about. So this is about implementing an active policy at the moment. So your statement is in complete contradiction with what we see in the field and what's going on. What I believe is unfair in this whole thing, is that whenever this question is asked openly and clearly, you give a decadent and clear answer that has some principled form, such as that famous answer – we will never recognise the independence of KIM, and that the content itself is either different or completely hidden. So, it is obvious, according to these moves, that active moves by certain government representatives on the crawling NATO accession pact or on the formation of public opinion in Serbia over time, which is openly said in a conversation with foreigners or members of this alliance, about changing the awareness of citizens who, with 20% of support, are probably falsely represented here, I think it is less, to support this alliance's membership, to turn it into some greater support. If that weren't the case, you would have called a referendum today, wouldn't you, Mr. Djelic? We would have cleared up the issue today and asked the citizens whether they were for the option or not. If one Austria, if northern Ireland, if Sweden, if Finland, if other EU member states are not members of that alliance, I do not see any need for it to be Serbia, especially because of everything that has happened from a number of circumstances that we can talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45967	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45968	No crawling, no hidden activities, there's an official policy, it's formed in this home. Any change in such a policy must first be verified here, and as many other countries have approached any military alliances, not only the one you mention today, it will have to be sanctioned, that is our belief, the referendum. On the other hand, that question is not on the agenda. I would remind you, since there's always a question of whether there's some hidden pressure that we're supposed to be reacting to, but somehow we can't reveal to our public, there's no hidden activity on the part of those who are now members of the alliance or the hidden activities of our country. I would remind the honourable MPs that US Vice-President Mr. Biden, during his visit last May, said very officially at a press conference that as far as the United States of NATO's leading alliances are concerned, they see no commitment from Serbia to join NATO to join the EU. It's official policy of the United States.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45969	National MP Milos Aligrudic, statement of response, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45970	Just what you just said, that it takes my tendency for you to have a very superficial and lapidal qualification when it comes to such direct issues and extremely formal. When it comes to the content of the work you're doing, different circumstances arise, so is KIM, and so is the story of the NATO Pact. By the way, we'll never formally recognise the independence of KIM, it repeats itself every day. Essentially all the active moves that seem to actually lead to effective recognition. That's what it looks like here, too. The moves towards Serbia's effective approach to the NATO Pact are being made, and at some point this will happen, when it is estimated to be simply a widespread public opinion in Serbia, that it has been weakened and that people are bored enough with the topic. So what you won't accept is next. You say it's not a current question, it's not on the agenda now. Well, when it's not on the agenda, then why is Dusan Spasojevic from the Ministry of Defense saying something like this? So you have to find out, ask for a further answer to this question, not only at today's session, but you'll be able to give me in writing, probably later when you find out if this is true that this is Dusan Spasojevic's statement and if so, what sanctions will he bear for this? Because if you tell me there are no sanctions for this, it's a high-ranking state official, then it means you're behind that policy. If you're behind that policy, then there's nothing valid about what you told me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45971	The word is by MP Borislav Pelevic, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that we are in a rather inexplicable situation. I wanted to ask the question of KIM Minister Goran Bogdanovic. However, with all due respect, among the ministers present I see no one competent to answer this question, but I will still ask the question. I hope to at least get a written answer. The question is: what is the Serbian Government doing to prevent the boastful conduct of members of the Eulex and the special Kosovo police in the northern part of KIM? As you have been informed from the public media, which is not all, things are much deeper and much more complicated than they say to the public, it is that EULEX has openly threatened the leaders of the Serbs with KIM, the political leaders, that they will be arrested. The arrests are still missing, but the threats are getting clearer and louder. Besides, the Eulexes and the so-called Kosovo special police regularly stop all motor vehicles in the northern part of KIM, search and harass both drivers and passengers in those vehicles. So a while ago, they were members of the so-called Kosovo special police arrested a Kosovo citizen in the municipality of Zvecan and wanted to conduct him in the south of Kosovo Mitrovica. But the citizens of Zvecan did not allow it, and they gave up their intention. It's just one single case, and there's a lot more. Realistically, Eulex has stepped up his activities with the so-called special police force Kosovo in northern Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. in four Serb municipalities, in Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan, Leposavic and Zubin Potok. What is the real goal and purpose of their enhanced activity? Of course, there is only one intention, one goal, to banish the remaining Serbs, the 120,000, and force them to move out with KIM. That's what the main goal of Eulexa is. Therefore, they do so under the pretext of fighting organised crime in the north of KIM, and what about organised crime in the rest of KIM, when reports of Interpol, Europol and all police organisations in Europe and the world say that KIM is the center of drug trafficking, white slavery and arms? They ignore it, and crime is found only in the area of the northern part of KIM. Their leaders, Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj, Fatmir Ljamaj and Agim Ceku, are ringleaders of organized criminal groups, but Eulex does not worry about that, these are their natural allies, unfortunately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45973	Do any of the government's representatives want to respond? No, I don't. I ask the MPs to formulate their questions precisely, for the Rules of Procedure obliges us to do so. The explanation can be, of course, the will of the MPs. If not, then the word has a People's MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45974	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to formulate exactly my question and I'm going to refer it to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic. It is a matter of the greatest possible national, economic and political importance. Of course, it's about Telecom. The SRS parliamentary group has already filed one request for the Assembly to discuss this, and we are, in fact, asking that every sale of Telecom be suspended. In this context, I ask the Deputy Prime Minister specifically and ask him to answer me specifically – what exactly are the reasons for selling Telecom? You certainly know that the neoliberal doctrine and the so-called invisible arm of the market, that it is already overcome and that in the modern economy it is already talking about some other aspects of the economy. What is not to say, large banks, such as Hipo Alpe Adria, are already nationalised in the region, you know that, and even in the negotiations, and the governor of the European Central Bank, Mr Trisha. It is quite unclear that at this point, when opposite processes are happening in the region and in the world right now, you are selling the most successful company, a public company that brings net profits of 130m euros. It's about 10% of our budget deficit, if I'm not mistaken. With that number, you could double your one-time pensioners. So there's no reason to sell such a successful company. Also, we don't know if you're selling Telecom because of the City Group, which is a privatisation advisor in this case. The same Siti group that got about $45 billion from the FedA and the Ministry of Finance. So, the exact opposite of what's going on around Telecom. We are not clear whether you are selling Telecom to be higher prices, because just one of the ministers present told NIN 21.10 that there will be higher prices of services and there will be unemployment, or layoffs of workers. So there's no economic or political or any reason to sell Telecom and I to ask you specifically why you're selling Telecom at the time the economic crisis didn't go through? Is it because it's supposed to apply the rule to sell goods and not to companies that are losers? It is not clear to us, and I ask you to answer me specifically, as the most responsible person here, as Deputy Prime Minister and as a man who deals with economic and political integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45975	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45976	Mr. Mirovic, a few months ago, we had some debate about what categories in the world are now like after this crisis, what liberalism is, what is ethics, and somewhere we agreed that these models were getting close enough. We had, and that's the case with this bank you mentioned, a few financial institutions that, because of reckless actions, came into such trouble that they could have pulled the whole financial system apart. As a result, a number of countries, not only Austria, this is also the case with Belgium, and with the Netherlands, and with America, contrary to what has been somewhat declared ideologies, have resorted to the nationalisation of these banks. That's true. We can therefore be pleased that in Serbia, because of the very responsible monetary policy, the policy of supervision of the banking sector, following checks made by both the IMF and the central bank in our country, and with the support of the European central bank you mentioned, no bank in Serbia requires a single euro of capitalisation. So this issue is not present here and some may be as a reminder that, past the change of governments, certain things must be stable, such as the issue of strict monetary policy and strict supervision of the financial sector. Now that we're talking about Telecom, let's just say that almost nowhere in the world, that developed world, are not Telecom operators in the hands of the state. There are several exceptions, and you know them, and I know them, but in the developed world, a large number of these companies are privatized. It's not here or there, because of the huge resistances that existed. I'm not saying there aren't any in the countries around us and with us, but basically the next thing. A previous government in which my party and I were not personally, i.e. That right, the first cabinet of Mr. Kostunica, supported Serbia's Telekom programme to buy Telekom Srpska. We supported this as a step, as an opportunity to carry out on the one hand in economic terms the size of the business, connect systems and support the same entry into Montenegro's market. Development continued and certain synergies were established on these three markets. You don't need to introduce ideology where it doesn't belong. There is no strategic reason, if, of course, we provide for certain elements of our country's security, from any possible strategic partner, for the state to be the majority owner of Telekom Srbija. At this point, the state as the owner has invested and guaranteed Telekom with great effort, and one part, most of that loan he took to buy Telekom Srpske has returned and at this point it is a slightly wider question – from which means can we today, without borrowing our country, to ensure the further development of its infrastructure? How to provide for future generations one more effective competitive Serbia? In one such state-owned realisation of such a secure progress by Telekom Srbija, where it is estimated that the state as owner cannot add much more, but further progress for those employed in Telekom Srbija can come from groupings with larger companies, because it will provide additional power at the level of purchasing what is needed, from the advertising space, through what may be technically better understood for citizens, which is for all of those appliances, which is necessary. Belonging to a much larger group will provide easier access, more stable jobs and a more stable perspective for all those working in Telekom. On the other hand, for our country, I would now like to quote something that is official, but non-binding, estimates of the value of Telekom Srbija, which is 2.3 billion euros made by the appraiser, we see that through the sale of some 50%, perhaps a little more capital of Telekom Srbija, that our citizens get a chance to develop other parts of our infrastructure. First of all, we're thinking about travel infrastructure. First of all, we are thinking of what will ensure the further development of our economy. The economy is like this, things develop in waves, it's not all the same. The bank when it threatens to endanger the entire financial system must be nationalised, and as far as Telekom Srbija is concerned, with the guarantees we will receive, there will be no danger for our citizens that it will be part of a larger firm. On the contrary, it will provide better conditions for both business and for those working for Telekom Srbija. Telekom Srbija will not go anywhere, it will stay in Serbia and I believe that along with a strategic partner it will provide an even stronger regional position for our country in the area of telecommunications, and a new chance will appear without the borrowing of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45977	The word has MP Dejan Mirovic, right to comment, or an additional question for up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45978	Mr. Prime Minister, unfortunately you haven't convinced me, unfortunately you haven't given me any concrete answers. As for that there is no state property in companies of this kind, we can discuss it, but I will only give you an example of Norway, Belgium, Italy, Slovenia, Finland and Denmark. You'll admit that these are all countries that have more GDP than our better economy, and yet they have telecommunications in state hands, and they don't mind making more GDP per capita head and a total volume of our own. Also, you say that the money from Telecom will be invested in the roads. We're not against road construction, of course. No one reasonable is against it, but please, you cannot only raise GDP through the construction of roads, economic efficiency and what is most important - the standard of citizens. Who's going to take those roads, who's going to drive, are those unemployed who get fired at Telecom, whether pensioners who are going to have fewer and fewer pensions because of IMF demands? I'll give you an example from the 1960s from Italy. The Del Sole highway was built about 12 years ago to develop south of Italy. What happened? There has been bankruptcy of all companies in southern Italy because goods could be transported more easily from northern Italy to the south. Only when the Italian authorities invested in salaries and pensions and in higher employment has the consumption and standard of citizens in southern Italy increased. This thesis that through some imaginary or real roads that are going to build Bechtel or some other firm, we're going to raise the standard of our citizens, it doesn't stand, it's completely irrelevant. Also, you are talking about some 700m euros in loans received by Telecom. From whom, from the City Bank, is this privatisation advisor to determine who we're going to sell Telecom to, from this City Bank, who is the adviser to Deutsche Telekom, who presents himself as the main buyer? That is, to say the least, a conflict of interest and that is something that shows us that corruption, which does not exist only in us but also in the EU. You want me to give you an example of Jean-Claude Trishe, which is an example of corruption, Mr. Mendelson and other people. You know, honey and milk don't flow there, it's not perfect. Therefore, be realistic, show a kind of national and economic responsibility and do not sell the best company that brings you the highest net profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45979	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45980	Mr. Mirovic, how can I tell you, tonight we are speaking to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, if I understand you correctly, you tell the citizens of the Kings that you should not build a highway to them, you tell the citizens of Cacak, Požega, Užica, Pazar that you should not build a road. Of course you need to build a road, we agree on that. It is extremely important that what they produce, because of communication between people, the right travel network is formed, and not only the road network, but also the railways and, with the Danube strategy, the exploitation of our waterways, the Danube and other tributaries. Of course, at this point, if we are thinking state-owned, the priority will be to ensure that national infrastructure, primarily in the domain of travel infrastructure, rail infrastructure, energy, is provided. Telecom Serbia is a success. Congratulations and management, and above all for all employees of Telecom who have been successfully engaged in international competition on the domestic market for almost 10 years and who have managed to prove that it is possible to do so with a predominantly Serbian team that will remain, of course. It expects it to be one of the leading in the future and in this great international partner, if there is enough good offers in both the money and the social programme domain and investment domain, various guarantees that we will, of course, ask to get from any partner, such an important economic entity as Telecom Serbia. Let's not forget, when we talk about Telecom Serbia, there is a fixed network that is no longer a monopoly, from a few months ago, but it is certain that one of those guarantees that we will get from anyone, that is that those who have today a fixed service and the possibility of having fixed telephony and other services, that it is something that will be guaranteed to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it is certain that when we talk about telecommunications, not everything can be left to some economic logic, but we will have to get certain guarantees. Say that we don't need to build roads, that we don't need to secure the south of our country, primarily the availability of the road network, the quality of the highways, sure that's not what you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45981	National MP Dejan Mirovic, a statement on the response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45982	Of course I didn't say no roads should be built. I said a context should be made, a set of measures to follow the construction of roads. As someone who certainly knows European law and rules, you know about the famous European Court of Human Rights verdict, where every sentence, every text and every title must be interpreted in context and in general. You've tried one, I have to say a trick, to get some of my sentences out of context. Of course we're not against roads, but we're urging you not to sell the best company, the company that makes the biggest profit. That's exactly why we cited an example from Italy. However, you must admit that this is the fourth country in economic strength in the EU. You didn't deny that example, but you tried to twist what I said and get something out of context that doesn't stand. So, our criticism was well-intentioned, and please, if we are seriously criticizing and preparing for this debate, so that you can be serious too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45983	The word has been sent by Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, gentlemen of the ministers, the recent unanimous decision by the EU Council of Ministers to forward Serbia's bid to the European Commission, is undoubtedly the most significant political event for Serbia today. In the past, however, the good news from Europe has lost its echo and importance very quickly among citizens because of the complexity of the journey, because of its duration and because of the fact that in the meantime, the loudness of this message has sometimes been lost due to the fact that we have not always provided enough information, but no guarantee that this path, other than it will last, will not be uncertain. My question to the government's representatives, above all, to the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for European integration, Mr Djelic, is this: What are the guarantees that the Government provides to citizens, which are the jobs, tasks and obligations that we need to carry out by next year, when we expect the opinion of the European Commission, what are the priorities set out in the announced action plan that you promised to bring by the end of this year?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45985	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45986	First of all, I want to say that it is extremely important that this decision is taken unanimously. In any case, at the end of next year, when we expect Europe's leaders to be set up according to the European Commission's proposal, all will need agreement. That's why it's so much better to go with the consensus, to get to the consensus, and not as some have said, that eventually it goes through the technical path, so that it can be voted through the qualified majority. What is it? It's here. EU ministers unanimously ordered the European Commission to prepare an opinion based on the candidacy delivered by President Tadic to the Swedish prime minister on December 22nd last year. The next stage is ahead of us. First, about the guarantee I want to tell you that through the intervention from the scene of a number of obviously very powerful allies, there was also a change in that conclusion that existed at the very beginning of that session. It may look like a detail, but what has been done guarantees that no one can suspend the work of the European Commission and Serbia until the preparation and submission of this opinion by the committee to the member states. In other words, it cannot be suspended this time until that moment, as we expect at the end of next year, ministers, European leaders decide whether Serbia or cannot win candidate status. Of course, we expect our reforms to ensure that the decision is not only positive at the end of next year in terms of obtaining candidate status, but that Serbia gets the start of EU entry negotiations. We will host Mr. Stefan Phil on November 24th, who wanted to deliver a questionnaire to the European Commission personally. It is expected that he has four to five thousand questions, it is expected to be a comprehensive document that will ensure that we answer questions very thoroughly by the end of the first trimester next year. What the representatives of the European Commission have told us is that we will have opportunities through complementary issues and those missions on the ground to finish this job by summer, then the European Commission will prepare its opinion which will be published in September, October next year and then pass the European Union's internal procedure and be put on the agenda of the European Union's summit, as I said, in December of next year. Without getting into the details, because I think that moment will be when the European Union's annual report is presented from 9 November, on that day we will see those elements that are expected of us to come to this stage of European integration, but as was evident through statements by European officials and what I personally communicated after that meeting, there are some ten key elements. First, it is to complete co-operation with The Hague tribunal, the second, it is that Serbia further improves judicial reform, third, that Serbia continues to work on regional integration, and the fourth to resolve the issue of mandate in this home in a stable manner, acceptable to our entire nation. To work on the inclusion of Roma, Mr Damjanovic, who is no longer here, it has apostrophe, to address the issue of increasing asylum requirements that exist over the past few weeks, especially in Sweden, to work further on economic reform, to pass a new law on the financing of political parties and several other elements. It will be very concrete reforms. In conclusion, I would just like to say that these reforms are not there so that, under the circumstances, we would simply meet some European criteria. These are very important reforms for the lives of our citizens, for the future of our economy. That is why European integration needs to be seen as, at this point, one way to improve the functioning of our country and the quality of life in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45987	National MP Vesna Marjanovic, right to comment and supplemental question, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45988	Thank you. Only in the end is one expectation as a national MP who would like to instruct the representatives of the government to raise the respect of this House and Parliament to a higher level in the coming period and to, with all the understanding that there is serious work ahead of us and that very often we have to hurry, to make sure that the laws we are considering here in time enter the procedure, because this significantly contributes to the quality of the debate right in the field of European integration. The quality of the debate and the quality of the procedure in the Serbian Parliament's legislative body is one of the most important guarantees that we will convince citizens that the European path is certain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45989	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45990	We agree. I'd have a few not so many bright examples of some countries that came this time before us. I do not want to give concrete names, you will understand why, for example, where 120 laws in English would be voted in one day because they are late, because they have not been debated, and we can essentially make a very clear connection between such a way of functioning and in fact a relatively weak contribution of European integration to those countries and the relatively weak success of those countries within the EU. So, I think that the previous year, and we think that we will see in this report and commendation on the account of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the volume of work, but it is also likely to be apostrophe of what you just said to Mrs. Marjanovic that debate and the amount of law is important, but quality, true respect in one particular way of our nation and its legal tradition is extremely important, especially in those domains of Aki communitors who are in some way more Anglo-Saxon traditions, which rely more on some court practice that is not the tradition of Serbia and many other countries of the European continent, i.e. continental Europe. This is why it will be very important in various domains that we really do what will be a form of European standard to imitate, integrate, assimilate in one way that will be useful for our citizens and for our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45991	Do you want an answer statement? No, I don't. ) National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word after him, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45992	Dear Vice President, the respected citizens of Serbia who still hope to see this direct transmission, thinking about who I should ask here, since the Prime Minister and the ministers of some very important portfolios didn't come today, I was thinking about asking Mr Djelic a question, but since he's got some fat books and he's in business and he needs to read, I don't want to bother him because his answers weren't at the level, so I'm going to ask the finance minister, Mrs Dragutinovic. First of all, let me remind you that in a direct transmission you promised to send a budget inspection to the city of Nis where your party colleagues spend non-purpose funds, read folk-stealing, but I'll be able to ask a lot of my questions here in these three minutes. I was offered what you said in response to a previous colleague, you're saying it won't be possible to be respected by the Law on the financing of local self-government. I want to remind you that in front of your own public, did I hear that the minister said he wouldn't respect the law? I understand what you're saying - we're gonna change the law, and how you're gonna change it is about easy for pensioners to expect. If we don't have enough money for those pensions as they are, then we'll cut your pensions and uphold the law. What kind of way is that? Do you know that only the town of Cachak has been robbed in the past two years by 520 million dinars? You don't give anything of yours; it's money that's earned at the local level. Not to mention some 50-60 municipalities for which Cachak is a big city and which somehow manages, so it ends a 500-seat kindergarten, thank God, for our children in Chačka and under these conditions of business that you have imposed. Who has empowered you, apart from having authority, to say to you, we will not return the money that they have earned to the citizens of Chačka and to all other municipalities and cities? If it were luck, it wouldn't have been directed into the central budget, but it would have stayed down at the level right now. Thus, the Law on the financing of political self-government says that 1.7% of gross domestic products remain in those cities and municipalities where people earned it. When you look at yourself, Madam Minister, income at the central and local level, it is seen that you at the central level are not saving at all, that the burden of saving and this global crisis, as you called it, you want to go to the local level only. What you have abolished these local transfers, it exists only in three European countries, and I expect you to say in which three and why have the other European countries not done so if it is a solution? It is not just a solution to deny someone – there is no money and it is over. We see the agencies flourishing and booming, 500-600 employees each. You didn't cut that? You were talking about reducing the administration at the central level, at the state level. You didn't do that? In conversations with the IMF you forgot to mention, you didn't meet that condition, but in municipalities and cities you blackmail people there, and people don't have kindergartens, schools to warm up. That's the money you took.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45993	The word has been made by Minister Dragutinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45994	I would remind you that the Budget Law is also a law. So when times aren't that easy, everyone has to take the burden of adapting, and you know it. Pensioners also submitted, and employees in public services who had frozen salaries, submitted municipalities and submitted central government. However, unlike the central government, I should also say that the central government did not behave as the local government acted. On the fact that reduced transfers to local levels of government, therefore, to individual municipalities, many municipalities raised taxes and fees with the right to establish basics and rates. The central government didn't do it. She didn't raise any tax rates. So the Budget Law is also the law. When revenues are lower, and in crisis they are, when economic stagnation is everything has to fall, as well as transfers to local self-government. As for next year, I'd just like you to say everything I said. Therefore, the possibility of municipalities to collect their original tax, which is a property tax, will be increased and transfers to be allocated to municipalities next year should be observed in this light. In any case, I assume that neither you nor I want a higher tax burden.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45995	National MP Miroslav Markicevic, right to comment or supplemental question, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45996	Madam Minister, otherwise I cannot understand this answer from you but as a twist of an answer. At the state level, we didn't raise tax rates, but that's why we robbed the municipalities and now we've left the municipalities and cities at risk, and what do they do? Now you're in front of the citizens here nice, you haven't raised your tax rates, but that's why you took billions and billions, I said to the Cuck 520 million, I say it's robbery, disregard of the law, and someone other than the law taking some money away from me is a robbery. I don't know how else to call it? Now listen to this proposal, you recommend that municipalities increase property tax. Well, why don't you raise some of your rates so you can say you're good here, how come you didn't raise any tax rates? Well, that budget you're designing has to be filled somewhere, and you're gonna be nice and nice. And here, for God's sake, you're making citizens, you haven't increased the tax rates, and down there, you've lost the sewerage, no water, no health, no roads, like they're not citizens, like they're not being punished like that, and plus now you're recommending to local self-government and cities, that 30% of some citizens, so you think that in our poor municipalities, villages and cities there are 30% rich people. I can give you an example, and you know as well as I can, as long as you want, that there are people who have 250 square feet of property. Madam Minister, you don't know Serbia. They built them in a happy time, maybe even Tito's, why don't we say so, and now people are out of work, without anything, and how do they now pay that tax that you want to raise, or impose on municipalities and cities as a way of solving budgets? What you said, it looks like a very unpopular statement by Cora Widowsky. Do you remember that statement, Madam Minister, when she was asked about pensioners who couldn't pay for electricity poor -- let them sell apartments, so let them pay for electricity. Do you now recommend to cities and local self-government that they tell citizens? If you can't pay the tax that the central government has imposed on us, the property tax to increase, sell half the house, and pay the property tax. If you really wanted to tax those who acquired it, you wouldn't tolerate Mr. Beck, but you would take that property from him, and not only him, you know well who I'm talking about, and these days, as I see it, you're very cooperative and silent about the destruction of state regulatory bodies, such as the Competition Protection Commission. The woman came out, none of you ministers answered here, said nicely who threatened her children and no one. In order for Beko to give you, as the press says, no one is denying, around Luke Belgrade, the hand of the menu, that's where we're going to end up -- you pay 200-300m euros, to supplement the budget, that little if we can schedule elections, sell Telekom and get out. No luck with this kind of work, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45997	You haven't asked a further question. Does the government's representative, Minister Diana Dragutinovic, want a comment?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45998	The debate between me and Mr Markicevic seems to be a conversation between people who don't understand each other. I don't know who they are. I don't know who they are. Speaking of local authorities, local authorities can correctly compare the revenues of local authorities and the revenues of central authorities, the obligations of local authorities and the obligations of central authorities. No one here has robbed, not the central government has robbed the local government, but the central government, along with the local government, has shared the burden of adapting. If you don't think that's right, that's another thing, but I'm telling you, in a time of crisis, when there's not enough income, when incomes are nominally stagnant, when incomes fall, because consumption falls, so taxes go down, do you think something should grow? Local and central authorities are partners, I hope, not opponents and as such parts and at the time of prosperity, to say, excess income, but also in times of crisis their lack and that's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u45999	National MP Miroslav Markicevic, a statement of response, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46000	Madam Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it is my honor to inform me that I received a letter from the People's Parliament of the Republic of Serbia by mistake. It is about Mr Miroslav Marinkovic, and I am Miroslav Markicevic. Madam Minister, this is what I asked you to ask your colleagues from your party, the president of the municipalities. It's a letter. I didn't ask anything else, they asked you. They didn't say it was a robbery. I say it's a robbery. The withdrawal of funds earned locally, which is the basis of some decentralisation, and in Belgrade, dear Madam Minister, we will plant payments of several hundred thousand euros. Oh, my God, it's lucky to have the day to plant it in Chačka, Babušnica, everywhere, but you have to understand that there are 60 municipalities where people can't heat schools, that many people don't have water to drink. Those funds would have been spent on it, and not from here in Belgrade, it's nice to talk like that. Now we're going to take a picture, take a picture of the canvass, and you know what kind of message you as a government say when citizens read? Now I have to ask all the ministers who came to the Mercedes, were they stolen by accident? It was very pro-European that one European police, some of our people who went, imagine, arrested us in a Mercedes given to them by the Government of the Republic of Serbia because the Mercedes was stolen. When citizens read and see, I don't know, the trampus, the bamboo, what they call these Mercedes, hundreds of thousands of euros, when they compare it, still stolen, and when they see that there's no school to warm up the school because someone's gonna fill the register up because he's the force and the law, and you in Babusnica, you in Lucani, you in Požega, Chačka, do what you know, raise local taxes, so fill it up, and when I come as a big minister to the Assembly, I'll criticize you. What I'm telling you, that's what everyone thinks about you and your DS colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46001	Two minutes. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46002	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I will seek to avoid abuse of the constitutional and legal institute of the parliamentary issue. We are all witnesses that the practice here is mostly nurtured that opposition MPs make daily-political comments that do not contain questions, and that members of the ruling coalition are asking empty questions that are creamy questions for the government's self-gratification. That for the first category is malignancy, and for the second hypocrisy. In LDP, we cultivate a different practice. My question is very specific – what happens to the organisation of the European Handball Championship and the participation of the city of Nis in the organization of the championship? For every country in the world, the organisation of such a sporting event is of strategic importance. It has both economic and promotional and whatever attributes you want. Given the character of the issue and the character of the topic itself, the issue is for Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, but since the topic has both financial and investment and other attributes, the question could be answered by Minister Kalanovic, Minister Dragutinovic and Vice President Djelic. With this question, I'll give some clarifications. We know that the problem is not to build a sports hall in Nis, for which the project already exists. We know a lot about this project, and then for representatives of the government and the asking – will the government do anything about it, or will they just find the notor truth that the city leadership in Nis is incompetent?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46003	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46004	The question is simple, the answer is not. The town of Nis has a sports hall that was assured that the European handball championship would be able to be organised in it. A months-long dilemma over the conditions of enlargement and reconstruction of the hall in Nis has divided local authorities into two parts, to those who claimed it was possible to organise those who claimed not to. According to the NIP ministry and the Sports Ministry half a year, a request has come to build a new hall that is very expensive, which should represent an investment of 12m euros and which should provide for a new hall, slightly larger than it is with something different infrastructure within the hall. The fact is that the funds for the construction of the hall, whether the definitions from the NIP or the Ministry of Sports, were so large that they were not possible in one year and the programme that followed, the construction industry programme also gave an additional opportunity. However, there was a risk that by entering the works to build a new hall would not arrive until December 2011, when the European handball or world handball organisation insisted on technical admission. These are the facts I'm talking about. What were dilemmas? Who's going to take the risk, whether to start making a new hall with suspense of whether we'll make it in a year and three months, in 15 months to fully equip the hall. On the other hand, there was a legitimate question whether it was possible to reconstruct the existing Hall of Chair? As a representative of a political party, I accept the responsibility that the political option that I belong to was the solution to build a new hall, and that the mayor and the people of his cabinet thought it possible to reconstruct the Chair. In any case, time was lost a few days ago, as you know, since you were from Nis and a few days ago on television there was a big public debate about who was guilty, at this point the World Handball Organisation informed the Serbian side, the Handball Union of Serbia, that deadlines had passed and that there was no longer a theoretical possibility that the hall would end at the scheduled time and that other cities would be chosen to maintain the handball championship.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46005	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, commentary and supplemental question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46006	Yes, and an additional comment. The answer is complex and I'm dissatisfied with it. You asked who was to blame. I know the answer to that question -- a bunch of incompetent people running Nis and some incompetent people sitting in the Serbian government. The government has a responsibility, and when it has a responsibility, it has to take risks. Or maybe, as in 1945, we'll tell the people that when communism comes, they'll all live in Belgrade someday. The south of Serbia and demographically and economically disappears. The government's job is to take care of their country's entire territory. Apparently, this government wants to run away from responsibility. My question is, where is the political responsibility for all this? When something is to happen, when something is to happen one part of Serbia, and because of incompetence and irresponsibility, then someone needs to bear political responsibility. Who will bear political responsibility for that?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46007	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46008	People's MP, I think you're knocking on the open door. All that we did in the afternoon section is talk about the government's firm determination not to let Nis die as a centre and south of Serbia. What is a fact is that in the previous period and many investors and many investments came to the city of Nis and there is no answer why there is no handball championship in Nis, which is why I am deeply sorry and I wanted a city in central Serbia to host teams that are going to fight at the World Cup, but you cannot claim that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not give significant attention to Nis in overall development. Today, your party's representatives have discussed in a rather offensive way the deconcentration of institutions and the transfer of the Nish Development Fund to the city, making an illusion that we could move the National Museum from Belgrade to Gadjin Han. I have accepted this as a kind of political provocation, and not as a political message. So I don't think we can put the event about building a sports hall in Nis in the context that you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46009	Minister Verica Kalanovic used minutes and 35 seconds, so Minister Bozidar Djelic has the right to use up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46010	Thank you. First, let me say the facts are next. In November, a European handball association mission comes to check the possibility of adapting the Chaira. It's not true that it's already decided not to play a number of games in Nis. Of course, we'll fight to make it happen. My message to the people of Nis is the following, it would be important if one sports event were held, but I believe that some other things would be important as well. Let us remember that last week we signed with the city, university and you as someone who works at the university you know very well, Mr. Rangelovic, for one investment of 14m euros, for a technology park, which will finally allow a large number of talented Nišlihs to be able to develop software and other high-tech companies. We know that we've been working on a series of foreign investors coming to Nis, from "Ditek" via "Sama" and many others in the domain of autocomponents, and we'll continue that direction. Nis is not only important for southern Serbia but important for our entire country. It's not possible to imagine that there's a pyrot, babusnica unless we start with a strong niche. That is why this government is unique in providing every possible chance for the citizens of Nis and the whole region and we will continue through what Mrs Kalanovic said, as well as all other policy instruments, to favour all those investments that can come into that part of our country. European funds will be located there as a priority. I remind you that in Vranje over a month we signed a program of 18.7m euros to help the south and southwest of our country, and that's just the beginning of what we're going to do, so the handball issue hasn't been resolved yet. We will try to find one reasonable solution, but there is much else, and I have mentioned some things here that are very important to Nis and all of southern Serbia and that we will work together as Government in weeks and months to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46011	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, a statement of response. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46012	I thank Mr. Vice President for these notices. It's a good thing the government is doing it in Nis, but it's government business. The sights of such good things certainly owe thanks. But I still haven't received an answer to the question of who will be politically responsible for the scandal over the European Championship and the scandal over the construction of a new hall in Nis? Or are we going to deceive these questions under the words that I just used, which are: idolatry and hypocrisy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46013	The word has Donka Banovic. After that, MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46014	Mrs. Komic, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, I would like to refer the question to Minister Milosavljevic, because I don't think it's right and it's not fair that everything has to be done by the Deputy Prime Minister. He's probably tired already. As an introduction to this issue, I will serve part, a passage from the prime minister's exposé for the composition of the Serbian government, Mirko Cvetkovic, on July 7th 2008. At that time, the prime minister, and today's Prime Minister, MPs and all citizens of Serbia, informed of the priorities of the then future government, which has now been in power for two and a half years. What are the key elements of this program? These were, among other things, the necessity of strengthening the economy, strengthening the government's social responsibility, strengthening the fight against crime and corruption. Later in the exposé, he developed these individual elements. I will read a part about what the government that then said to itself is socially responsible: "One of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be to strengthen social responsibility towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in order to improve the conditions of life and work of all citizens of Serbia, and especially the most vulnerable categories of the population. The government's goal is to make the largest layers of the population participate in the results of economic progress in the coming years. We want to build a society where all citizens will have a chance of progress on the social scale. In such a society, free higher education will be available to all hardworking students and students, free health care guaranteed to all poor citizens, and all citizens of Serbia will be protected from extreme poverty." You have to admit, when you read this today, it sounds like a good joke or a good joke. About 15.00 hours today, the agency news showed up that five unions, representative, agreed to start collecting signatures for the government's shift on November 10th and that daily alert strikes would begin on November 10th, etc. My question is very specific: How do you, as minister in this government, understand the announcement of these five unions on the organisation of protests, and how will the government of the Republic of Serbia behave according to the demands of millions of workers, or when it receives these millions of signatures, of course, if these five unions collect these millions of signatures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46015	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46016	I thank you, Mrs. Banovic, for your questions. It is true, what you have said and are the priorities of the government – and strengthening the economy, and social responsibility, and fighting corruption and a lot of other things you have not mentioned. The government of the Republic of Serbia has very concrete results on each of these segments. You said it yourself, and that's the fact that this is half-2008 exposure. Afterwards, the global financial economic crisis came and, under the circumstances, this government is extremely responsible for doing its job and, I will repeat what the vice president said a few minutes ago, but it is simply part of the answer to this question – we will be one of the countries in the region that will have the best economic results at the end of this year. The expected growth of gross domestic product is about 2% this year. In the last year, in the year of the world's biggest economic crisis and in these areas, and beyond, we had a lower GDP decline compared to some countries in the environment. This is a practical reality with which Serbia today can be measured economically. So, not only the gross domestic product, but also the growth of industrial production – about 4.8% in the first nine months of this year, the growth of exports of nearly 20%, the improvement of external trade exchange in terms of the 10% deficit reduction, so that, on all relevant criteria or economic indicators, Serbia achieves in certain circumstances the results that are possible and, again, I say – significantly better than some economies in the environment. What's the second battle for those who are socially endangered than aid with 5,000 dinars and the poorest pensioners, helping social categories, fighting almost the entire government to attract investors, to create new jobs. Indeed, I repeat again – everything we do is to make life easier for citizens under difficult circumstances and also for this very difficult year, however much easier and painless we can get through. From the domain of the Ministry of Trade and Services, we are recently two regulations that are not popular, which are administration but I would say, necessarily, in these circumstances I bring. One is a regulation relating to the price of the basic type of bread of type 500 flour, where for the next six months, in agreement with the Union of bakers, we have provided stability in the price of bread in the next period. So, no change in the price of bread, that basic agricultural-food product. Also, this struggle that, in the conditions of the problem that we have in the milk market, due to reduced deliveries from the primary sector, our attempt is to ensure through the production obligation a minimum of 40% of fresh and sterilised or long-term milk, in fact, sufficient quantities of that product, at prices that have been and are not changing. It's the same story with the price of electricity. The EPS, because of its depressed price, has problems in its business, but we, as well as when it comes to the price of gas, have done everything in our ability to maintain the standard of living of citizens and, above all, in difficult circumstances, help us to solidify and, as far as possible, by seeing those who find it difficult to overcome this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46017	National MP Donka Banović – a comment or an additional question, up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46018	Thank you, Minister Milosavlevich. I really don't see what you're up to with your optimism and all those positive words you've said? A few months ago, you also said there was no inflation in Serbia, and then they wrote in the paper that you were a correspondent from abroad. Or, in other words, that you do not really know the reality and the standard of citizens from Serbia, and those who work and pensioners, etc. You mention 5,000 dinars as some big help. Besides, you didn't answer my question. I was very specific. How do you understand the union's announcement that they will stage a protest in November, and how will this government, because you are the minister in that government, relate to that? There's no reason to doubt the unions won't collect those millions of signatures? How will you feel as a minister and what will be your decision? Will you suggest that the government resigns completely or will you continue as if nothing is happening?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46019	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46020	I never said there was no inflation. A few months ago, I expressed my expectation that inflation in this year will be within the framework of a projected macroeconomic policy for this year, which is, I'll remind you, six plus two percent. We are now at that inflation ceiling projected for this year and it will probably be a percentage or perhaps slightly higher than that upper limit. I agree, that's a problem, but it's not a disaster. As for the specific issues related to the union protests, I haven't read that announcement since 15.00 hours, as you said today. I haven't even seen the specific demands of the union. Of course it's a union job and a democratic right to fight for the rights of their workers and their interests. When I see exactly what the union's request is, and when we talk about these demands at the government, then I'll be able to tell you my personal position. Although, of course, as a man and as a member of the government, I am not comfortable with the announcement of the protests, because we are really doing everything to help both workers and pensioners and all citizens of the country, in all segments of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46021	National MP Donka Banovic. A statement of answer. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46022	I'll just be able to comment, because the minister can't answer anymore. I think you know why the unions and workers in Serbia are unhappy. These protests were triggered, among other things, by amendments to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, where various statements came in the last days, from the Prime Minister, which Mr. Jovan Krkobbic, said that the trade unions, once said they would talk to the unions, that the proposal would be amended, and only then sent to the Assembly, and from that, let's say, Jovan Krkobic said that nothing would change in the bill, and not even the interpretation. I'm sorry that me and the minister can't continue the dialogue anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46023	The word is by MP Mico Rogovic, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46024	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't have a dilemma about whether any of the ministers present can answer the question. My personal opinion is that this is what it should look like, in fact, not according to those present, but by the number of ministers reconstructed the government, given the difficult conditions in which Serbia was found, as Mr Djelic says, the severe economic global crisis. It is a sufficient number of ministries that would, on the other hand, complement those shortcomings, Mrs Dragutinovic, related to the functioning of local self-government. Now, despite the fact that the resolution minister is not present, I would ask one question from ordinary everyday life, which is, does the government intend to do anything about legalising tractors and agricultural machines? So one really very difficult question, that is, the big problem of all agricultural producers, means the legalization of tractors and agricultural machines. What exactly is this about? The point is that in the last 20 years, total anarchy has ruled in this area. For example, the largest number of examples is such that you could become the owner, i.e. make a sales contract for a tractor or a agricultural machine, and that the traffic permit for the same machine is in the name of the original owner. We have a situation that in the last twenty years large immigrations have been from the premises of the former Yugoslav republics to the premises of the Republic of Serbia and that because of the simple resolution of the existence that the owners who had moved from these areas have sold, or alienated tractors and agricultural machines to simply survive, and that the traffic permit has never been valid in the name of whoever made it or became the owner of the buy-in contract. The passing of the Traffic Safety Act, we have a situation where traffic police are daily exercising their responsibilities and regulating traffic on the roads to submit misappropriations to owners by purchasing contracts, not by the traffic permits of these machines and tractors, and that these are large amounts, and that, normally, they must come from the situation that these are basic means of working, the basic means of producing these people. Believe me, in this area, there are not so few of them and in this situation the same situation as in the area of illegal construction. So almost every other tractor or agricultural machine doesn't have a traffic permit in the name of the one who runs it. You've got another problem. This problem, probably by Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, given that this area was previously dealt with, will answer this question, you have a situation that a very large number of the first owners of these machines and tractors of agriculture in the meantime, unfortunately, died, and then the problem is further complicated for reasons that you can't, you have no one to regulate when you leave, say, at the police station, to regulate those papers, you have no owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46025	The word is Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46026	. Dear Mr. Rogovic, allow me to note that it is not an adequate time for legalization. It's a trade relationship between the owner of the agricultural machine, the tractor, and the one he sells it to, or whoever buys it. The laws are clear. The moment the transfer of ownership is carried out, a part of the tax is paid, new papers are removed, and there is no problem. In a situation where the owner of the tractor has passed away, there is an inheritance procedure in which one of the heirs and the right to receive it, then he executes that transmission, so that there is nothing to be done and how it should be done. Those who haven't done this in a few years are now in a more favourable position because in a few years, the value of that agricultural machine is certainly smaller, so the amount of tax is lower, so in any case they're at the gain and they can do it day and day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46027	National MP Mico Rogovic, comment or supplemental question for up to three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46028	Indeed, since there are more registered speakers after me to use their time, and that's very short, until 19.00 hours, I don't want to go into the discussion with you. I'm just going to give you one example. It's about a man from Groca from here, and that's a really big number. I purposely mentioned the term legalization because this is really legalization. So you have one purchase contract, you have a traffic situation that you can't translate a vehicle into your own name, or a tractor or a agricultural machine. That's why I deliberately mentioned the legalization problem, and if it wasn't like you say, you can easily see for yourself in all departments and stations of the MUP. After completing this session I will give you the paper to see, one of the many such examples, it is practically impossible for the owner to legalize the tractor, allegedly legalize the tractor, because the documents are not kept in traffic documentation, so in traffic documents they cannot translate the vehicle into their own name, or agricultural machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46029	Do any of the government's representatives want a comment? No, I don't. ) The word has Aleksandar Martinovic, followed by the national emissary Jelena Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46030	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, these days Serbia has been visited by news that in a village near Vladic's Han, a certain Vlasimir Petrovic died, 44 years old, starved to death. Yesterday his mother Zagorka, a 70-year-old woman, died of hunger. At the same time, today the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to increase the amount of reward for one who betrays General Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic. He who betrays General Ratko Mladic, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will receive 10m euros, and he who betrays Goran Hadzic will receive a million euros. In conditions, as Mrs. Finance has confirmed to us today, when we all have to suffer the burden of the economic crisis, and the state authorities and authorities of local self-government, and peasants and pensioners, and students and pregnant and disabled, and everyone else, there seems to be only one category of Serbian citizens who should not and should not suffer the burden of the economic and financial crisis, and these are denudents. I thought I would ask Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, but for reasons of political correctness and some gentlemanly conduct in parliament, I will ask the Vice-President of Mr. Djelic – how is it possible that in conditions when people die of hunger in Serbia, when they have to cut their fingers in order to draw the attention of the state to their economic and social problems, when you have had a complete judicial collapse because of the fact that employees in the judicial administration were striked for low wages, when you have an announcement of the union general strike in Serbia, how is it possible for the Serbian government to make a decision to pay information on Ratko Mladic 10m euros and Goran Hadzic a million euros? I ask Mr Bozidar Djelic – from what budget positions does the Serbian Government intend, if someone is to betray General Mladic or Goran Hadzic, from which budget positions does the Serbian government intend to pay that Judah's sum of silver coins to whoever does it? I also ask Mr. Djelic -- which is why the Serbian government, when it comes to Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic, differs from the occupation German commander in Serbia, General Paul Bader, who in July 1943 announced a prize of 100,000 gold marks for him who gives information on the whereabouts of Josip Broz Tito and Draža Mihailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46031	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46032	Mr. Martinovic, I don't think at least there's any point in trying to get close to what is a difficult social situation for a number of isolated people because, as far as we can see from this case, one of the problems that exist is the isolation of that family that lived very far from any other populated place and it's obvious that some social services here have failed. We as Serbia must look after every citizen of this country. That family had one pension. Of course, she was small, but apparently there were additional problems in that family and it was obviously necessary for the relevant services to give special care and attention to that family. What happened is defeating all of us, and we must not allow such personal tragedies to be repeated. On the other hand, at the recommendation of the National Security Council, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has decided today to increase the principle of compensation for those who provide relevant information to address this problem and this issue that has so long burdened our progress in the domain of European integration and in general, we can say, raises the question of respect for our law, but also our obligations. I would like to remind you that the Hague tribunal was formed at the moment the Dayton Agreement was signed. It's one UN institution. We are a member of the UN and in this home, and at that time it was home to the federal state, a domestic law that leads to the obligation of all, as is the case with all other people wanted by any criminal procedure, to allow them to go to justice. Your former party companion, Mr Nikolic, spoke about it at some point, and many others, that it would be the most journeying at this time for us, given the state's difficult circumstances, to have one general decide at this time in the interest of the entire nation to come to justice and to answer for what is being put on him, that in this way our entire nation, if there is guilt, enables it to be individualised, and not like this, that the issue burdens all the citizens of our country. That's why the decision is the way we know it. The payment, if it comes to it, will not be from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Things are very well known. No one said that we in the Government of the Republic of Serbia only do easy things. No one said we were just dealing with pleasant questions. Simply, when you run the country, you have to use instruments that can bring us closer to the goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46033	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, right to comment and a supplemental question for up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46034	You, Mr. Djelic, have talked about everything, just not the essence of my question. So I didn't ask you what Tomislav Nikolic's position on Ratko Mladic or on the EU is. Small children know that this man has changed his political orientation by 180 degrees, but that is no longer the problem with the SRS, that is the problem DS, if the EU makes you make a joint government with that man after the next elections, but it is not a topic now. What I am interested in, Mr Djelic, and what interests all the patriotically defined citizens of Serbia, and you have not answered that question, where do you think you pay 10m euros for Ratko Mladic, or 1m euros for Goran Hadzic? What are these budget positions? Where in the Republic of Serbia's budget is the amount you intend to give to those who would possibly forward to you information on the whereabouts of Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic? If that's not the Republic of Serbia's budget, then I ask you, Mr. Djelic, who will give you the money? State Department? Will you get money from EU pre-accession funds? From Croatia? From Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who is it that will pay one huge sum for one individual, 10m euros, or 1m euros? What you, Mr. Djelic, are also persistently trying to say, and in this way to deceive Serbian citizens, is that Ratko Mladic is the main obstacle on Serbia's path to the EU. That's not true. If you take the European Commission's 2010 reports, you will see that Serbia faces a whole series of problems that represent a fundamental and real obstacle to Serbia's faster progress in European integration. Now it is completely irrelevant what the SRS or what I personally think about European integration, I am talking about an official European Commission document. It states not that Rako Mladic is a major obstacle, but a high degree of corruption, the lack of judicial reform, the fact that you still have a whole series of problems in financing political parties and that no law on the restitution of property has been passed. Of course, it is always the easiest thing for you to say – the problem is Ratko Mladić. When are we going to solve the issue of corruption? Is Ratko Mladic to blame for stealing at the highest state level, for taking commissions, for unfortunately robbing local self-governments? Is Ratko Mladić responsible for that? Goran Hadzic? Vojislav Seselj? Who's responsible for that? So there are a whole series of problems, Mr. Djelic, which stand in the way of Serbia, not only in European integration. With us, as we are, as a country, no one will want to co-operate, neither the EU, nor the Russian Federation or anyone serious. In 2007, Mr Djelic, the EU made a mistake and openly acknowledged it when she accepted Romania and Bulgaria, countries that were absolutely not compatible with EU membership. Bulgaria is still one of the most corrupt countries in Europe. We will not enter the EU, even if you find Ratko Mladic, until you resolve the fundamental issue of this country, which is a high degree of crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46035	Please do not mislead the public of Serbia. We will join the EU. Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46036	First, I would like to address our friends in Bulgaria and say that we are aware of the difficulties, but that with great respect we are monitoring the country's progress and numerous joint projects that we will have with Bulgaria. A recent meeting of President Tadic with Prime Minister Borisov showed that these projects are both realistic and mutually beneficial. It is certain that the EU has not made any mistakes by making the enlargement to Romania and Bulgaria. I must say that neither you nor I can speak on behalf of the EU, but it is certain that the fact that Bulgaria and Romania have entered the EU is something that makes it easier for our country to join, because that way Europe has proved to be expanding across the region of Southeast Europe. I repeat, on this difficult issue, if there is a payment, it will come from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The recent amendments and additions of the Budgetary System Act allow for certain flexibility in the use of fiscal revenues. We're not hiding behind anyone, it's simply a responsibility when you're leading the state to do something that's hard. I repeat, the most honorable way for an honorable soldier, as has been said by both the position and the opposition, is in the interest of all the citizens of our country to face justice. It will not only save our citizens, but it will be the best possible way to solve this issue. As far as the other conditions are concerned, I think I answered the question you just asked unequivocally. You're right, it's not just a matter present, there's a lot of other questions, and the one you mentioned, and some other one I mentioned. We've got a big job ahead of us. Serbia has a chance to become a competitive and successful country, but it will take a lot of work to reach that level.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46037	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a statement about the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46038	Mr. Djelic, I'm amazed you don't know the basic political facts. So, the Hague tribunal was not formed by the Dayton Peace Agreement, but formed in May 1993, nearly two and a half years before the Dayton Peace Agreement was signed. Secondly, you didn't answer my question. My question was very precise – from which budget positions do you intend to pay 10m euros? You say, "We've passed the Budgetary System Act." We did, if I'm not mistaken, in 2002. In each budget you have a whole series of categories, economic classifications, whether that's right, Mr. Djelic, positions. I guess there are some positions from which you will pay the 10m euros. Tell me what position you're in. What's his name? So that tomorrow or tonight, when this session is over, I can take the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget, and see if those funds are prescribed and envisaged or not foreseen, or if you're going to act irrationally with the people's money. What, too, Mr Djelic, did you not answer – when you intend to meet all the conditions prescribed by the EU, or the European Commission, which have nothing to do with Ratko Mladic? I don't believe that Ratko Mladic is your obstacle to curbing crime and corruption. When do you intend to deal with this problem? This is being apostrophe as one of the burning problems of the Republic of Serbia in the EU accession process. As for Bulgaria, you obviously did not follow the statements of the highest European officials. In 2007, they made one political decision -- that Romania, above all, Bulgaria, and I have no intention of insulting Romania or Bulgaria, and especially not their peoples, but it is a political decision that these two countries join the EU, even though neither at that time nor today, in economic and financial terms, they essentially do not meet all EU standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46039	The word has a national emissary of Jelena Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46040	To begin with, I would like to make one observation about the previous presentation of my colleague Martinovic, and it is about meeting the standards that many, colleagues, depend on both the work of this Parliament and its activities, and in this sense with deep confidence that we will meet all these criteria next year and that no one has assessed this country as absolutely corrupt, but that an improvement is expected in this area and that this will also happen. My questions are, above all, intended for Minister Milosavljevic, but since I see that Mr. Martinovic is just talking about what appeared in public as a great manipulation of the award for the arrest of Ratko Mladic and that the thesis appears that our citizens will be left without pay and pensions thanks to this promised reward, I want Mr. Djelic, to explain to the citizens very precisely why Serbia's candidacy, to which Ratko Mladic is an obstacle, is important to each individual citizen, as the citizens of others have benefited from the moment they received their candidacy or, to be even more precise, how much more precise the funds from the EU have withdrawn, for which they were used and how ordinary citizens could have felt and when our citizens can experience it and that we already realize that everything we are doing for the arrest of Mladic is nothing compared to what Serbia's future perspectives. After that, I would ask Mr Milosavljevic, since there is also a tendency here to constantly confuse citizens with false information, so we don't even know what the truth is anymore, today the representatives of the opposition, who sat in the previous government, addressed citizens as if they had come from abroad or awakened from a deep sleep, explaining that Serbia is a country that suddenly imports food, although defined as a agricultural country. Is it really the first time Serbia has been in a situation to import food and is imports more or less today, has more export or importing food and has the government's measures, which it has brought to the agricultural field, large subsidies that you have boasted a lot, produced some results regarding imports and exports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46041	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic. If they want two government representatives to speak, just to remind me that the total time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46042	I thank you for asking, Mrs. Trivan. There was no opportunity to respond, but the government of the Republic of Serbia has made no decision on importing milk. It is true that there is a problem with insufficient milk deliveries in the last two or three months by the primary sector. That deficit is about 10 million gallons of raw milk on a monthly basis. The regulation we've adopted is trying to alleviate the problem. Milk is imported by traders, those who think it's a good job, but this year and past are the years in which Serbia's agricultural exports are growing significantly. It is estimated that this year could reach up to three billion dollars, with an extremely large surplus. This is, in practice, the only branch of the economy in which Serbia records significant surpluses, so that Serbia's agricultural results are absolutely commendable in this year, in which we have a rise in prices, but also produced sufficient quantities, not only for market and Serbia's needs but also for exports when it comes to wheat, in particular, sunflower and other agricultural cultures. The problem, as I said, is with milk and we're trying to solve it in a way that the market is supplied enough and I believe that the measures we've taken will be taken and solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46043	A minute and 30 seconds have been used, left for Minister Bozidar Djelic for three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46044	The day the Council of Ministers reached a unanimous decision to forward Serbia's candidacy, it was breaking news on many world media, in a positive sense. To not lie to ourselves, there was an anticampion against Serbia days before that decision. There were those circles that wanted this development to not come. In some ways, the message sent by Europe was desirable for us, useful for Europe and I believe for the whole world positively received. Of course, those who are Serbia's least friends were saddened by the decision, but at the moment we are talking to investors who are interested in entering our market, we were in a game of cases at the largest economic fair in Baden Virtenberg, which is the most successful region in Europe, starting with the president of the board of the Deutsche Bank, one of the largest German banks, through the president of the province of Baden Virtenberg, which exports more than one Spain, for example, has been apostrophyd as a call for the development of Serbia's candidacy to the European Commission and in the presence of some 700 businessmen. This contributes to the security of investments. If we were talking about concrete things, I'd single out two. The first is that, after obtaining candidate status and in addition to reforming our financial system, Serbia can count on increasing the transfer from the European budget by about 30%, which means an additional 70m euros per year. What is quite important is that candidate status, plus reform of the financial system, means that Serbia finally has access to the remaining parts of the European budget, namely three. First, agriculture, second, even regional development and infrastructure and third, the development of human resources. As we see for ourselves, these are three key issues for our country, three key domains where we will have more significant resources to begin with. Of course, we are not hiding that we and some other projects, it is now another aspect of things, as a candidate country we will have the opportunity to attend almost all the meetings of the EU, the European Commission, not yet as a voting country, but we will be much more involved, get much more information, which will therefore mean much more opportunities opened by the European budget. Experience has shown that candidate countries have been even more successful than those 30%, so that through the Danube Strategy, through the Southeast European Energy Community, beyond the possibility, as well as very well-known dear colleague Matic, in the domain of information society, information society, telecommunications, we are able to gain more parts of Europe's scientific budget. It will be concrete projects for much more concrete purposes for our citizens. Therefore, with legal certainty and a clear signal to investors in financial terms, this will mean much more opportunities for our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46045	National MP Jelena Trivan, commentary or supplemental question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46046	I'd like a few more clarifications about the misunderstandings that are open today, and these days they're often opening up. The opposition colleagues have repeatedly mentioned here that this government is running an irresponsible policy, so long before it inherited a huge budget from the previous government, primarily by privatising the "Mobtel". So it is claimed that all the funds related to the privatisation of the Mobtel came into the hands of the finance minister and that it is unknown where these funds went. On the other hand, the Government argues that only large debts were inherited, primarily related to roads – 300 million, for which we had to be in debt, as well as other sectors. Also, today it is mentioned that this is the largest inflation and unemployment rate in Serbia's history, so I would like the finance minister to tell us what is true, what are the correct economic parameters, are we recording a improvement compared to previous governments or lagging behind? For Mrs Matic and Dragutinović, and in this regard – did the privatisation of Mobtel bring improvement in the business of the company? Are there fewer prices for services, are there more salaries and in that sense whether we can expect the same thing in Telekom, or was the privatisation of Mobtel a disaster that we shouldn't go on further privatisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46047	Which one of the government's representatives is answering for a word? Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46048	I'll try to answer some of the questions. So it's hard to compare the results of this government to the results of the previous government, simply because we're in different stages of the economic cycle. It would be good to compare the government's results with other governments in the same economic cycle, which is a crisis. So do other governments, especially governments in the region where small and open economies are located, react better than Serbia does to the consequences of the economic financial crisis? What I can say, looking at basic economic indicators, in the crisis Serbia is better than other countries in the region. Compare a rich and poor man, a time of crisis with a period of economic expansion just isn't good, it's not statistically good. As far as privatisation revenues are concerned, I can say that every penny spent from the RS budget is recorded. If you ask me what the privatisation revenues were spent on? First of all, I have to say that the privatisation revenues were primarily used to fund budget deficits. As you know, Serbia's economy since 2006, practically since 2005 has been a budget deficit. During that period, the state was not in debt, so it used privatisation revenues to cover the budget deficit. Also, some old debts have been recovered from privatisation revenues. I remind you that by 2008, all payments of old foreign currency savings, you know that this is an inherited debt, an inherited obligation that became public debt after 2001, all financed from privatisation income. Also, payments from other loans by 2008 were covered by privatisation revenues. Therefore, privatisation revenues were used for the regular functioning of the state, to cover the budget deficit and to pay off debts. As well as privatisation revenues, debts were inherited and thanks to the use of privatisation revenues, the public debt fell significantly, so that 28% of the social product ended in 2008 and was one of the lowest public debts in this part of Europe. Unfortunately, after 2008, there was no more revenue left from privatisation and the only way to finance the deficit in these conditions is borrowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46049	There are two minutes left at the government's disposal. The word is made by Minister Jasna Matic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46050	With regard to your question about the effects of selling Mobtel and the arrival of Telenor on our market, I can absolutely say that the effects on the market were extremely favourable, that Telenor has been practicing the principles of corporate governance that are far beyond what we had in Mobtel, and that only the market has come to life and that our citizens know this as mobile phone users that after the arrival of Telenor had far more quality services, a far greater number of packages and far more favourable conditions used mobile telephony, resulting from greater investment in business, in technology, in the expansion of the network. Mobile telephony today in Serbia has representation among the largest in Europe, and our citizens usually use one or even a few mobile phones, which raises the quality of life for those citizens above all who did not have a phone before, and raises competitiveness, especially small businesses that can now be available to their customers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46051	People's emissary Jelena Trivan, plea and response, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46052	Although the finance minister said it was almost impossible to compare economic parameters at a time of crisis and before the crisis, I would still like to say some of the information I hoped she would say, which speaks of a frantic fact, which is that we had worse economic indicators at a time when we didn't have a crisis and we had in this sense more irresponsible management of the holding register, which today's opposition representatives pretend to know or not. In that sense, in response to today's thesis that we have inflation never greater in history, I just want to say that in 2005, it was 16.2%, twice as high as today, and that we had unemployment that same year higher than today, at the height of the global economic crisis. So this is a very clear indication that people who sit before us today know in the most difficult times to handle properly the state, and that the situation that we have and the fact that we all live badly is the result of the difficult economic situation that we have inherited among other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46053	The word has a letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46054	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have heard two scandalous messages sent by the Government's representative. The first message is that the young man is arrested for money. I would ask you, Mr. Djelic, to plead here and now what are the reasons for the arrest of Mladic. Secondly, the second message was Ms Dragutinovice in that she does not think she is implementing her laws, or she does not think she respects her laws, as the minister said she knows that the decision to transfer local self-government has been reduced and that this is contrary to the Law on the financing of local self-government. But that's the situation, the money's gone. The message to local self-governments and Serbian citizens is that the government does not respect the law, its own law, and what can it expect from its citizens and those same local self-governments in respect of the law. My next question is actually what was supposed to be the primary, before I heard what I heard today, when does the government think about restoring property to local self-governments and the AP Vojvodina? Does the Government know that by not returning this property, first of all, it does not respect the 2006 Constitution, and secondly it makes it impossible for the same local self-governments that have no money not to be able to dispose of their property? In this way, these same local self-governments come under a double impact of the crisis, which the government does not give them the significant money that belongs to them, and it also does not return the property that belongs to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46055	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46056	Well, it's hard for me to understand what's been said now, because, of course, as far as arresting and extradition is concerned, it's about our international obligations, and what the government has done today by accepting the National Security Council's initiative is just one way to achieve respect for domestic and international law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46057	It's been used for one minute. Minister Dragutinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46058	The term that my statement was scandalous really hit me a lot. I'm not a scandal master, and I'm trying not to make my statements scandalous. In order to understand and explain to Serbian citizens, I want to say, the laws are made for regular times. For example, in regular times one and two budgets are made annually. When times are not regular, special laws are passed. They are often brought into terms of the financial crisis. Many countries have passed laws on dealing with the financial crisis and, practically, as the financial crisis continues, have put so-called "out of force". Standard laws. I'm sure you're aware of that. These were and are still unstandard times. In unstandard times, we can't behave standardly. The budget law is also a law and the Budget Law essentially forced us, given the exceptional circumstances, to behave differently than in normal times. As for the second question, unfortunately, I can't say anything more than I said last time. In response to this question, I will say the following – an agreement has been reached that the law on public property, together with the law on restitution, be passed by the government and adopted by parliament. As the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of returning property to churches awaits at this time, the answer depends on what kind of restitution model it will be, in anticipation of the Constitutional Court's response, we still haven't adopted these two laws as a government. As soon as that answer comes, very soon, the law will be passed by the government and handed over to parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-28-0.u46059	With this, we have exhausted parliamentary opportunities based on the 205th and asking the government a question from 16:00 to 19.00 every last Thursday of the month. I thank the representatives of the government and the MPs. See you next Thursday of the month. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, the session takes place on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly before we move on to further discussion. Article 286(2) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that the President, or the President of the National Assembly, shall have the right under the position of the 1st member, which means that the MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the Chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials and from the authority of the bodies at which they are headed. An authorised representative or representative of a parliamentary group may exercise this right at a session of the National Assembly orally in a single address for up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
