ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41821	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said the other day that Serbia came out of recession and that all indicators show and point to economic recovery. Citizens and businessmen, on the other hand, point out that the situation is quite different and that we are yet to face a crisis. The course best shows the state of our economy. The dinar lost a value of 37 pairs compared to the previous day, so today it is necessary for one euro to single out 103 dinars and 54 money. The economy and its citizens are currently in debt to banks of 1.504 billion dinars. The number of those who are unable to settle loans dramatically because of the sudden drop in dinars. Yesterday, we were able to read that out of 977,367 citizens who took credit from banks, 118,402, then, every ninth, they were unable to settle their obligations on the basis of loans and that these delays were over 60 days, or even up to 90 days. In addition to the course, the reasons for the delay in paying off loans are that many of them have lost their jobs and that there are about 70,000 companies in the blockade, in which a large number of unpaid workers work. My question is addressed to the Prime Minister: is he and are the members of the Government aware of the depth of the crisis and what does the Government seem to overcome the crisis? The second question is addressed to the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Public Debt Administration. Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic said some time ago that public debt is 32% of gross social product. Serbia's president, who wants to prove to Serbian citizens that he knows everything and understands everything, said that the public debt, somewhere, is 33.6% of gross social product. Economic experts suggest he is over 36% of the gross social product and that Serbia is already a high-indebted country, which is on the verge of the debt crisis, compared to a small number of gross social products. That is exactly what the letter, which informed us of "Politics", was addressed to the prime minister, to government members, to all experts, to the depth of the crisis and to the proposed measures to overcome the crisis. I think it provides an obvious example of how incompetent this government is and is unable to overcome the difficulties it faces, this particular problem and the public debt problem. I expect to get an answer from the Public Debt Administration as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41822	Whether any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or a solution, in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41823	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really don't know what to do anymore, I'm asking simple questions, but there's no answer. I asked the Agency for Business Registers to deliver a number 8101 solution to me since 22 April 2005, from which we could see how much "Luka Belgrade" had action. There is no answer, although it is simple, that document already exists. But there's one more interesting thing. The Anti-Corruption Council also addressed the same issue to the agency and did not get an answer. Here, apparently, it may not be, but there is a concern that someone has manipulated about 2.5 million 'Luke Belgrade' actions. And there's nothing to be done. There's absolutely nothing to be done! Here, today you have information that VAC wants to withdraw from Serbia. To be clear, I am not sorry that VAC wants to withdraw from Serbia, but there is an objective problem related to the privatisation of the company "News" involving Stanko Subotic Cane, VAC, Milan Beko and Milorad Miskovic, and everything is indisputable. I showed you the payments from Stanko Subotic Canet, those three companies, and I also didn't get an answer, which was privatized by News. There's no answer. Now I understand why Zagorka Dolovac, the Republic Public Prosecutor, has not come to the Defence and Security Committee six times. She probably wasn't comfortable with the possibility of being asked some questions directly. But here, I'm asking the Republic Public Prosecutor -- have they taken any investigative actions, when it comes to the privatisation of the company "News" and "Luke Belgrade"? It is obvious from these two examples that at the privatisation of the company "News" and "Luke Belgrade", all the things that characterized Serbia's ten-year robbery were politics, tycoons and criminals. And there's no longer any dilemma. But there's one thing I can't explain to myself, the government that privatized, which took part in privatisation, which, among other things, accuses that it was involved is not from the current ruling majority. Then there's a question of why these things don't move. And then, when I remember the period from 2004 to 2008, there were no problems related to privatisation, or robbery. Just remember "Sartid" and some other privatisations. Obviously there may be secrets here, there may be no deals, but some unwritten rule -- don't touch me, I won't touch you, it's important that we switch from power, keep robbing, and those of the previous ones who did it we won't touch. I can't understand that you're going so easily over such an inappropriate robbery when it comes to "Luke Belgrade" and about the "News" company, and that you're quiet. I asked the question – is it true that the "Luke Belgrade" accounts contained 42,300,000 euros? I didn't get an answer until today. For what? If it wasn't clear, in six banks, everything is known, there is a record, there are names and names of people who have made up the record, to this day there is nothing! If it turns out that it's true that both these two and a half million shares were removed at the time of privatisation, then it later appeared, it's an additional 25,000,000. Well, my people, I don't know what it takes for you to do something?- I'm sorry. Only, then, in Lucy Belgrade, the state lost about 100,000 euros, if you count all of this with Luke Belgrade. Well, what else does it take to do some things, to finally get you into a crime case?- I'm sorry. Here, since Boris Tadic has proposed to those who are "insolently" rich, or as he has already said, "indecently" rich, I would remind him that only there are people who have legally acquired wealth or illegal. But those who have legally acquired them don't care, and those who are illegal should give money to build a good prison, because they will probably need it when the time comes to answer for what they've done over the past 10 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41824	National MP Zoran Ostojic, an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41825	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, my questions will be related to the Bor municipality, not because there are elections, but because it seems that only Mrs Matic from the government is not involved in the campaign, because we have been watching it here for days, and all the other members of the government and ministers are going after Bor, among other things, the Minister for Environmental Protection, Mr Dulic, well, with that in connection, and I am asking, because Bor, next to the "Rafineria", is. In addition to Panchev, one of the neurolgic points in Serbia, and I remind you that environmental standards are the most important among the European standards that our country needs to meet in order to get closer to Europe and to meet the obligations that await us. My question is simple. Since Bor is abnormal, above average, the disease of children, leukemia, as well as in Panchev, since the maltene campaign says that a new melting plant will be opened on Monday, I ask Dulic's ministry to answer the question – how many days in the past year have the concentration of harmful substances, sulphur, sulfur dioxide in Bor been greater than permitted under our regulations? In parallel, I would like to get an answer to the question – how much is this concentration greater than European regulations, since, although we are moving towards European regulations, the standards that our law prescribes are not yet in line with European regulations? So, I would like to get a comparative analysis – how many days has the pollution in Bora been greater than the legal limit and how much greater is it than the European regulations? With that in mind, I would like to get at least a principled answer – when will the law be applied and when will the penalties for air pollution begin? I understand there will be a solution for Bor in the future. I hope he finds himself. Never again in that combination will there be employed as many people as there were in communist times, after all, those times have passed. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Tourism, also, about Bor, given that there are strange customs in Bor, the municipality in the village of Slatina has given a permanent use of the football field to a Dragoslav Pavlovic? Now that man decides when anyone can play and who can train and treat the state property, or publicly, as if it were his private property. Similarly, it happens with one of the, let's say, the most beautiful tourist attractions in the area, which is an evil cave or Lazar cave. In the former Yugoslavia, people from all over Yugoslavia came to see that cave. She was really an attraction. Now it's going down. Again with some miracle of previous authorities in Bor, the key to that cave has a man. When he's there, he opens it. When he's not here, it's closed. Everything around here is going down. This is a question for the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, which includes tourism, which is Mr Dinkic, who is also quite active there with these coalition partners for censors, Bosko Ristic and Rasim Ljajic, when will his ministry deal with what Bor has, and what happens in fact, because the money that can be earned from small and medium-sized enterprises, small businesses, from agriculture, is not made of tourism? Everyone's waiting for that combination. That combination can't feed the whole Bor. Ecology, agriculture and tourism are the potentials of Bora, and these potentials are not used. objectively, it may not be possible only at the level of local self-government. Maybe the Ministry needs to make an effort to activate those potentials. I would also like to get answers from Dinkic and his ministry – when will it be put into service what Bor has and what is not used? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41826	I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miroslav Petkovic, Radojko Obradovic, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for the special adviser to the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, as well as the Assistant Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, Slobodan Marković, to the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, Stefan Lazarevic, adviser to the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on ELECTRON COMMUNICATIONS (single) The amendment to Article 30 is the first amendment in the morning part of today's debate. Before we continue to work a brief reminder of the time available to parliamentary groups and presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups: PUPS Group – there is a total of time available; A parliamentary group of minorities – there is a total time available; The New Serbia Group – there is 30 seconds of time available for the parliamentary group; The MP group of LDP – there is 50 seconds for the authorised representative and the total time for the parliamentary group available for discussion in particular; The SPS-JS Group – there is a total time; The MP group of DSS – used the time and the authorised representative and time for the parliamentary group; The MP Group Advanced Serbia – has a total time for the authorised representative, i.e. the parliamentary group president, as well as 12 minutes and 15 seconds for the parliamentary group; Parliament group G17 plus – six minutes for the chairman of the parliamentary groups and the total time group of Members of Members and the group of Members of the group of Members in the group of Members, the group of Members for the group of Members and the group of Members, the group of the group of the group of representatives of representatives, the group of representatives of the group of representatives for the group of representatives, the group of representatives and the group of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of the group of representatives and the group of representatives of representatives of the group of the group of the group of representatives, the group of representatives, members of representativess and the group of representativess and of the group of the group of the group of the group of representatives of representativess and the group of representativess and of the group of representativess of the group of the group of the group of members of the group of the group of representatives of the group of the group of the group of members of members of members of members of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of the group of representatives of the group of representatives of the group of the group of representatives, members of the group of representatives, members of representatives of representatives of representatives of the group of representatives of representatives of representatives of the members of the group of the representatives of the group of representatives, members, members of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of the representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of the representatives of representatives of the representatives, representatives of the representatives of representatives of the representatives of the representatives of the representatives of the representatives of the representatives of the representatives of the representatives of the representatives, representatives of the representatives of the representatives of The 30th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 31st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs to the 33rd amendment was submitted to the Group of Representatives of the Forward Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word wants, and the word is spoken by the messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we spoke of these previous three amendments yesterday afternoon. The amendment to Article 33, in a way, is similar to these previous amendments we have spoken of, because it also refers to the fee, i.e. the amount of compensation prescribed by the Communications Agency. And, some, in general, SNS's principle position is that some agency that has some public resources cannot determine on its own how high the fee, or compensation to prescribe, can't decide on the size of the employee's earnings and can't decide how much the agency's costs will be, because in the second part of this article it is said that the fees will be in relation to the costs incurred by the Agency when providing those services. It is quite incorrect, it is quite inappropriate for certain agencies to have the right to have what belongs to the Republic of Serbia's budget, what fiscal revenues are in fact budgets, that they themselves have. We had very negative examples in the previous period when it was, many times already spoken here, the Agency for Flight Control, then the Civil Aviation Directorate, where the staff receipts, the costs incurred by those agencies were extremely inappropriate and an example of numerous newspaper articles and numerous comments in this assembly home. No matter what the Constitutional Court has decided that this is inappropriate, that it does not comply with the Constitution, it continues with this practice. We believe that it is inappropriate for the Agency for Electronic Communications to define in the same way that it decides how much compensation it will provide and that it has these fees. If by that logic, the State Administration and individual segments of the State Administration today will not boast of adequate equipment or adequate salaries. Should these institutions and other agencies, in their own opinion, increase fees, fees and other receipts, without control of the executive authority?- I'm sorry. We find that impossible, that unacceptable. In addition, it is also that one good part of the revenues generated by the public sector is not under the control of the finance ministry. We had a chance before, some, it seems to me, six months ago to hear the minister herself speak of it, that 20%, according to her estimate, of the income generated by the citizens and the economy is not under the control of the Ministry of Finance. In this way, I would say, disabling this law that you are announcing, a law on fiscal responsibility, a law that should significantly reduce the duties that citizens and businesses have towards the public sector, to dissipate the economy, in some ways, as I said, disabling. I would say, too, that the situation in electronic media is very bad and all the more that goes south, Serbia is getting worse. They depend entirely on the municipal budgets. And where privatisation is done most often, that privatisation is unsuccessful. I also have an example from Pomoravsky County, and Jagodin TV and Cupri TV, which have not even been able to privatize, although the competition has been called several times. So, when it comes to this area of business, this business activity, everything has been concentrated in large city centres, primarily in Belgrade, and if the Agency continues with the policy that has been conducted so far, and if it prescribes compensations that are too large, so weak the internal media will be in a situation that they will not be able to survive. The media scene in Belgrade will be aware and possibly some regional television stations, as everyone else will not be able to survive. A much more serious policy is needed when it comes to assignments and radio frequencies, but also the functioning of radios across Serbia, and this can only be achieved if the executive authority, at the level of Serbia, assumes responsibility for this area rather than leaving it to the Agency to run it itself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41828	Three minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41829	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, who last night had the opportunity to look a little bit at how the media reported from our session yesterday afternoon and who today had the opportunity to look at the first editions of the paper could have concluded only one thing – this ruling coalition that is depicted by DS, SPS and the coalition around it, and the G17, is the most responsible for the return of the 1990s to Serbia. So, in the 1990s, they're back in Serbia. Inflation as at that time, hunger, people die from hunger, poverty, every tenth Serbian citizen is poor, corruption that is at a very high level today and the abolition of civil rights and freedoms. However, it's not nice of us, who, you say, yesterday, are trying to draw attention to the members of the law that you've made so that you can legally listen, let's say. It's not nice to speak a language that's not politically correct, so we shouldn't say that you're listening and that you're abolishing civil rights and freedoms, but we should say that you intercept information. Unfortunately, neither of them are the features of democratic societies and, unfortunately, you have no opportunity to explain to the citizens, because you cannot explain what is not real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41830	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41831	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, dear colleagues, if someone is called on to be politically correct, then certainly must not be below the fact that it is false, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, in the absence of arguments that he is trying to disqualify politically the one who claims on the basis of the fact why there are no charges brought here, because it is simply not written in this law. And I'm afraid that this way of communication is, in fact, an attempt to defend itself against the obvious nearer truth about the involvement of the government whose representatives were at the time when this government was active and their connection with many extremely problematic people, related to organised crime, on the one hand, to corruption, on the other hand, and to conceal and cover-up obviously those who committed the most serious crimes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41832	A minute and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41833	The Honorable Madam President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, but above all, Serbia's citizens, it is up to you, Serbian citizens, to determine whether this looks like the 1990s or not, and to you, Serbian citizens, to define whether you live in a country that differs significantly from the country where we lived in the 1990s, but to us, which is directed at the edge of an unargumented criticism that this law is actually played by termological terms and meaning of the word 'interception' and 'trace'' to tell you – in this law there is not a single word about listening to the phone. I know that and I know that and anyone from the opposition who insists on imputing the ruling majority that this is about the listening law. Where does the fear of certain political parties lie when it comes to this law? It lies, first of all, in a restless conscience, because if we had a law like this in our earlier years we would have known a lot, we would have information about the communication of certain political structures and certain people involved in very suspicious matters in this country. Of course, fear is good who knows him, but fear of responsibility to voters, fear of responsibility to the future, cannot be reconciled by you saying – I am not afraid, and my fear of not being afraid I will explain myself by accusing the authorities in the most brutal way, by calling for political correctness, and then accusing the authorities of listening, following, stalking, so that I will sow, groan, fear, that I will frighten the citizens of Serbia that after this law I do not know what will happen. The same thing that happens everywhere in Europe will happen in Serbia. We will live in an orderly country, in which the electronic communications system will be arranged not in the way we were wanted by the ruling majority, but, as civilised European societies have done. Therefore, if anyone has a restless conscience, if anyone has the need to defend himself against the avalanche of accusations these days, let them do so in places where these accusations are heard, but do not resist others and say, "No, we are not so." And, don't say, well, this law sucks, Serbian citizens, nothing wrong with what the ruling majority is doing. Well, what's it gonna be? There's an election to be called! What's the election to call for? Well, that you, the citizens of Serbia, wouldn't forget that we exist and that we are present. I don't think that's very wrong, and it doesn't need, exactly, that some political parties are falling into those elections, because these elections are not going to do them any good. Serbia, the DS and the ruling majority will, when the time comes for the elections. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41834	Three minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. In the electronic system, National MP Milica Vojic Markovic was reported. The time of the parliamentary group has been used. You have no right to a replica. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Donka Banovic. Please register again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41835	It is nice for Serbian citizens to be able to see democratic institutions in Serbia operate in a direct manner this morning. So, to direct calls and illusions, those, the MP can't answer in a replica, only he can use these two minutes. Yesterday, there were many words about how the opposition meets fear in society because we warn the legislator that otherwise one extremely good law is not good when it comes to three members. In simple words, this law, or those three members, is not constitutional, they are anti-constitutional because they allow reserved information by the state authorities and without a court decision. It's very simple to explain it to the citizens, but without the court's decision, it can be accessed by a state body. However, as for the sowing of fear, I would warn the ruling majority, to tell them that there is quite a fear in society, and that fear stems from what it does, or does not do this rude government. Fear of losing a job, fear of how the family will be fed, fear of how parents will buy textbooks for their children, fear for parents who have students who will train them. True, there is fear, but not because the opposition warns some members of the law we are talking about here and we are submitting amendments, there is fear of the rude government of Mirko Cvetkovic and President Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41836	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41837	There is fear, but I believe, when the truths about the railways are revealed, about Luce Belgrade, then the citizens will know who is responsible for that fear, so they will also know that those who today tell citizens that they should fear more than they have reasons, because the meeting of the truth, then the citizens, at least, will be able to say peacefully – yes, we know who is guilty of the fear that there is no work, because some: they have robbed, abused, obtained personal benefit at the expense of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41838	Forty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41839	The Honorable Madam Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, if anyone is recognized in my words that in his political biography and his political past there is something to be concerned about, to be ashamed and to be the subject of investigative actions, then it is his problem, not mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41840	Twenty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) I ask the Members of the People to allow us to continue our work without throwing and talking to each other in benches. The 37th amendment was submitted by a group of 21-nation MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 43. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 56th amendment. (Yes) Does anyone want a word? National MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41841	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no reason to even recognize myself, and I don't recognize it, and it's all in your hands, and you can freely interpret my biography any way you want, and the intelligence services are obviously under your control, and you want to listen. I don't mind, but it's not about me personally. Here you go, gentlemen, and my political party, too, pretamble, see if anyone has abused anything. If it was, you'd have done it in two years. I'm absolutely sure you have to find someone to blame for what you promised, and you can't keep it, but the only one who's guilty is a rude government and a rude prime minister. They are responsible for all that they have promised and have not fulfilled. I can't believe that someone today has the courage, when it comes to concrete law, to make an argument, which is an argument – everything is fine, says European standards know this. They absolutely don't know, ma'am! I was very precise. "Retained data is an integral part of communication, as important as content. '"The data quote for the European Court of Human Rights has been copied. Look, please, the Constitution, article 41, is even more precise – the privacy of communication is guaranteed. It's so precise, it's, gentlemen, arguments. The fact that you're telling fairy tales about whether anyone, what, scares, doesn't have to scare, writes everything, in your laws, everything writes. We just have to read them. What's the end of this story is that you've turned the state into a police state. I warned you yesterday, Nixon fell because of an unauthorized tap. You'll fall too, because you want to turn listening into what the institution is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41842	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41843	I think the best indicator of whether someone meets European standards is perhaps solutions from countries that are members of the EU. Well, if we want to look up to some of those who are the best role model, and who are the best way to solve it, then maybe it wouldn't be bad if we knew how it was done with them. For example, in England, at the consent of the minister, the services can obtain all data and, not only retain, seek retained information, but also intercept information. In most countries in the environment, the solution is exactly the same as with us now. There may be two countries where keeping information is not allowed without the orders of a competent institution. It is that if we are talking about European standards, then we cannot talk about that there are some abstract European standards that will apply only to us, and for all those countries that are members of the EU are not. That's not true. We are subject to the same standards that apply to EU member states. It is simply not correct again to argue that we are in breach of European standards, thus moving Serbia away from the EU. On the contrary, this is what we introduce and apply European standards that will be supported by the EU. I'm absolutely sure of it. And, again, I don't think it's correct to tell citizens what's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41844	A minute and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has been re-declared. (National MP Milica Vojić Markovic, from the post: If I have the right to reply? You have no right to a replica. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 56th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 60th amendment. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 66. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 79. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by the National MP Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 84th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 88th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 89th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 92. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 104, the amendment, with corrections, was filed by the People's MP, Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment, with corrections, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with corrections, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with corrections, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 107th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41845	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the whole story, exactly the same, about the high European standards that apply in this country, we listened to all of us, and the MPs, and the citizens of Serbia, when the laws related to judicial reform, when we listened to how effectively the judiciary would be relieved of this or that. Today we are getting a clear signal from Europe that it is a complete failure. Europe is asking you to reset your attitudes, bring the whole process back six steps and so on. We used to listen to the same thing about high standards when it was the Information Act. That's how good that law was, as assessed as high-European and everything else, we got feedback. When they were laws on national councils, they were also high European standards, but of course, they only talk here in the Assembly. At the first rehearsal, now that there were elections for national councils, everything the opposition told you, proved in practice to be completely realistic. Your story of high European standards is only broken on one thing. Half of those countries you name, or individuals from those countries, have sued their countries to the European Court of Human Rights for the individual members of the laws you state. And, uh, there's a procedure going on about it right now. Many laws have fallen. Read that detail too, ma'am, or you only read what goes in your favor. It's very interesting that in the absence of arguments, we use half-arguments. When we refer to the truth, we'll read the half-truth, and the other part won't. That's what we're going to tell the citizens. But we don't have to talk to the citizens or you or me. Citizens live in this country and citizens know what hit them with this government. Citizens know they'll be able to live and breathe freely, eat, school and go to the doctor, and not worry about what their vaccines are like, only when you leave, which will be very soon, ma'am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41846	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41847	The Honorable Chairman, that is true, that citizens live in this country, the living consequences of some previous abuses and of some previous incompetent governments and irresponsible governments, which at a time when economic growth was much larger, when there was no economic crisis, spent money on what, and therefore, the citizens had no use for it, no infrastructure project was done, was invested in any new company. So, citizens live the consequences of these governments, and that's true. But citizens live and vote. And, as we can see, they don't vote for that government that's made the worst moves at the best time, they vote for this government that, even in difficult times, requires it to do the best possible for the citizens. If we're already talking about half-arguments and half-truths, then I'm experiencing it as if you're saying it yourself. Because all you said was half-argument, half-truth, half- fact. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41848	A minute and seven seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Zoran Ostojic has a word, so MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41849	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to return for a moment on the subject of this law. This law is good, except for the part in which the Guardian of Citizens challenged it. And we of the opposition agree with what the Guardian of Citizens said. Mrs. Kolundjia is generally right when she talks about a past, but, Mrs. Kolundjia, you and your party were with their government first in co-habitation, then in the coalition. You can't load everything on them without you being responsible. That goes for you, too. Let me go back. There's no listening. Yeah, this law doesn't talk about listening. Someone like he's been spinning and talking about listening. This is about a violation and a threat to privacy. Therefore, data that telephone and internet providers will store for a year can be made available to security services without a court order. It's not content, it's when, who, how much we talked to, after all, and where we talked from, because the base stations also reveal the location from which they're being telephoned. So, the issue is, what is the privacy limit that can be violated without the court's decision? The public defender and we of the opposition believe this is an excessive violation of privacy without a court ruling. With the court's decision, you can also enter the content of the communication. This is where the arguments were heard – the postman sees who was written, knows the telegram and so on. Here citizens willingly agree to be violated by their privacy; when they send a telegram, they know that whoever types the telegram and who carries the content will know. This is about something that citizens do not agree to know without the court's decision; with whom you, Mrs. Komic, spoke on May 15th this year. Simply, without your permission or court decision, it should not be available to the authorities. This is a violation of privacy that objectively violates human rights and freedoms that are protected from the value of the Constitution, and therefore, if you adopt this, the Guardian will press charges to the Constitutional Court, and we will see what the Constitutional Court will say. But if he says it's unconstitutional, then I guess someone should be held accountable. Who? Mrs. Matić? Government? And she passed this law. The ruling majority who will vote him? I believe no one will be held accountable. This is about not replacing the thesis, not talking about what Mr. Milivojevic was doing yesterday opening a story about the past, about a secret service in which there is a counter-order where murders are ordered, etc., until all this debate came up about this, and he forgot that his party was in a coalition with the party that had that counter. He didn't think of that. Let you know what happened in the past. Yes, yes, Mrs. Kolundjia, you're in a coalition with the SPS, and the SPS was in power when national security killed political opponents! Let's go back to what we're talking about. Where, therefore, is the privacy limit that a state without a court decision can violate? Is it just content, which is not controversial, or what we are talking about here – when, where, how, how much, from which place did we communicate? After all, I'd like some expert to explain to me, it's clear from the telephony that there's a number from which it's called and the number it's called, you can't get into the listening content without the court's decision, I'm talking about the document. What's the pandemic's phone number on Internet traffic? I'm sure it's not the name and e-mail address, it's what's called the IP address. How will e-mails be kept for a year and not their content, because lists do not include content? I'm not an expert, but I'd love to know how BIA's gonna get some e-mail out of a year ago between two people without having any content? Those are all sensitive questions. Let's get back to the subject. No one here is talking about listening, this is about disturbing citizens' privacy through this information that the providers will now be obliged to keep for a year. We think it's possible only with the court's decision, and you think it can do it without the court's decision, the BIA chief or the BIA director, or whoever he powers, or whoever he powers, which means the inspectors in the investigation will be able to enter and obtain documents without the court's decision. That's controversial. We don't think that's good, you think it is. Leave out of it now who did what, etc., it'll all come out sooner or later! We are now talking about this law and we think this is a problem, and the greatest damage of all this debate and the adoption of this law is essentially the degradation of an institution, and it is called the Citizens' Protector. It's even more of a pity to me than to pass a law like this against whom we are, because we are a young democratic society, we have a multiparty system for only 20 years. We are trying to build institutions, and this law, unfortunately, has led to the violation of something that is indeed a democratic institution that we must cultivate as a bit of water in the palm of our hand. Don't, Mrs. Kolundjia, talk about their past yet, but let us out of the opposition now, them, them and us critics of this, the Protector of the Citizens, the democratic institution, the people's lawyer, as they call it, he contests this. Don't talk to us, you should talk to him, and you've done it. You're jeopardizing an institution like the Guardian of Citizens, and I'm asking you exactly what happens if the Constitutional Court says he's right, which means we're all in opposition. No one will be held accountable and the damage is done. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41850	Seven minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger of Hope Kolundzija, then Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41851	Dear colleagues, of course, it is a pleasure to return to what is the subject of this law, but I must say what we are fundamentally different from. First, no one is trying to degrade any institution, especially us, not the institution you were against, or you didn't want to vote for it, and we voted and elected it, gave it full support and, in good faith, did everything to make that institution a credible institution and we do it in the future. But it's that, in our deep conviction, no one has a certificate that he's the bearer of absolute truth, so none of the institutions do. So we can and can have the right to reason on issues that are of paramount importance to the citizens of Serbia. I don't think that violates the integrity of any institution. First of all, remember, one of the most important institutions is this Parliament and this parliament is credible and invited to discuss issues such as privacy, human rights and protection of citizens from any abuse of any institution. And, in that sense, anyone who tries to turn this into a conflict with the Protector of Citizens is, in fact, doing a bad service to this institution, but also to the institution of the Protector of Citizens. So, it's not about that, it's about us, I believe that the Guardian of Citizens cares about facts and the best solutions that will allow in this country, on the one hand, the state authorities and institutions to do their job in the interests of Serbian citizens, to protect them from crime and ensure their safety, and, on the other hand, to prevent anyone from in any way abuse, breaking the law, disrupting privacy or disabling citizens from enjoying their full civil and human freedoms. That's what this is about. That is why we believe, and indeed everything goes in favor of what we claim, that this law is not a law defining the competences of security institutions, that there are laws that define it, that this law does not suspend the provisions of those laws by any law. Among other things, the Code of Criminal Procedure unambiguously laid down the procedure and unambiguously established the obligation of the operator to provide the information they need at the request of the Agency. What's the need for that, what procedure? It's defined by other laws. And it's not that we think that we're some kind of security information agency defenders now, what someone's trying to turn. We just want to say -- this isn't the Security Information Agency Act, this isn't the Security Agency Act, this isn't the Criminal Procedure Act. So this is the electronic communications law. He, under other laws, only defines the obligations at these points. So at other points he's talking about other things entirely. But at these points, he only defines the obligations of the operator in accordance with other laws that have already defined those obligations. Therefore, this law cannot define the obligation of those whose jurisdiction, responsibility and obligation are established by the laws of origin. I can't believe that we can't understand each other that much, and I can't believe that it's all very good intentions and concern for human rights and freedoms of citizens, and the inviolability of data, and it's not something else. I really can't believe it, if there are laws, then let's open the topic of whether your laws are the best way to regulate it. We're ready to open that topic. But this cannot be a parent law that will define the jurisdiction of institutions whose task is of particular importance to this country, which is to fight crime and fight organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41852	Four minutes and 33 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Srdjan Mikovic has the word, so the Messenger of the people is Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41853	Ladies and gentlemen, I would be most fortunate if such laws and such a constitution were valid in late 1999 and early 2000. It is precisely the period from 15 December 1999 to 1 November 2000, meaning 25 days after 5 October, that I was in a position to be operationally processed by the decision of the then Head of State Security. Therefore, not by the court's decision, but by the individual's decision, for whom we know who was guarding after October 5th. And that is why I think it is good that we continue the democratisation process of Serbia. However, for the sake of truth, we should also say that such a bill is absolutely in agreement with the European directives both in 2002 and in 2006, because European Directive No 24 since 2006, which is exactly what the members of the European Union are referring to in the way that this area should be regulated. The fact is that, here in Sweden, Italy, Great Britain, the Netherlands, Germany, the Minister of the Interior, without a decision, the court may seek not only insight into the documents but also into the content of communications. I don't think that's necessary. The legislator considers this not to be necessary, because, precisely in this proposal for a law, Article 129 explicitly states that the retention of data which reveal the content of communication is prohibited. That is exactly what it says is that there is no need to fear something presented in the wrong way in the public, because by adopting the bill, as it is set out in the proposal itself, there is no danger of breach of Article 41. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is true, it also confirms that the laws that define the responsibilities of the security service to this day are not disputed by all those people who dispute constitutionality in the media, for example, Article 128. The bill, and these same individuals, regardless of whether they are issued as protectors of certain rights of citizens or do the protection of the rights of citizens, have not launched an initiative to determine whether constitutional provisions of the laws passed more than half a year ago. I consider it only when you read Article 129 paragraph 3 carefully. The bill, where it is clearly said that it is forbidden to retain information that reveals the content of communication, based on it all, I think that any citizen and anyone who is watching today's transmission can be all clear. For this reason, I call on you to support the bill in the voting day, because this bill carries a whole series of good solutions that will improve this area, the field of electronic communications. That's why I invite you to support the bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41854	Four minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger, Slobodan Maraš, has the word, and the People's Messenger Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41855	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry, Mrs. Kolundzija, for not understanding what Mr. Ostojić was saying. Mr Ostojic specifically noted that much greater damage than passing such a law – a conflict with the Protector of Citizens. You know very well who entered the verbal conflict, through the media, with the Protector of the Citizens. According to my colleague, to stop calling him his personal name, Mr. Jankovic, is the Guardian of Citizens, he is an institution. Mrs Kolundzija, when Mr Jankovic was elected as Protector of Citizens, as well as Mr Sabic, and here there are many MPs who have been in the previous meeting, you know whose proposal it was, but you know very well that both Mr Jankovic and Mr Sabic were detained outside the hall by the ruling majority in order not to respond to the calls that arrived at the time by a large parliamentary group. So, then the floor was wiped with them. Who stood up in their defense, like institutions? Liberal Democratic Party! And I would like Mr. Jankovic, who is certainly watching this, and Mr. Jankovic can confirm that he contacted the Liberal Democratic Party's Parliamentary Club the next day to thank him for his support, although neither was our proposal nor did we know the man. What did Mr. Ostojić mean? That the entry into conflict with the institution of the Protector of Citizens is just a continuation of the withdrawal of the independence of the NBS, as Mr Andric spoke the other day, a continuation of what has been done with the DRI for several years, so all independent institutions in this country, which should be in the service of the citizens, with them the ruling majority, in one way or another, slowly enter into conflict or take away their independence. That's what Mr. Ostojic was going to say. Mr. Mikovic, you remember very well, again, I say, that the Protector of the Citizens, or that institution, when visiting the BIA, should confirm what he was looking for, what the Citizens' Protector said then – that it is necessary to prevent the BIA from having insight into the flow, or calls that go and so on. So I think all these things are public knowledge and I don't see the reason why this kind of dust is now rising. Mr Ostojic only wanted to point out that it is unnecessary to engage with the Citizens' Protector, especially as Mr Jankovic wanted to be in the service of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41856	Two minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Zoran Ostojić, then the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41857	So, we did vote for Mr. Jakovic and we supported that law, we voted because we wanted Serbia to get the Protector of Citizens. We didn't propose it, but we voted. Therefore, it is incorrect to say that we did not vote. On the other hand, when they were laws on BIA, we were against this law that allowed BIA and the police to look into documents without the court's decision. So, we're talking about what we're talking about right now. The fact that you think anyone who hasn't voted shouldn't even respect the Guardian of Citizens, it's, we think, quite, against building democratic institutions in this country. We were the only ones against the Constitution, which you, all of you, brought together, in those two days of voting, the beating of ballots in the last five hours, the secret vote, so we respect that constitution. You, Mr. Mikovic, are calling for that law to be passed. We, again, say, that law is good, except for this which is not good. In order to get to the Constitutional Court, he should be voted first and published in the Official Messenger. We wish and can't wait for you to vote to go to the Constitutional Court. After all, the Constitutional Court is the only one who can say whether something is constitutional or not. We can have an opinion. Well, we thought it was an unconstitutional mess with NIS and a direct contract, so the Constitutional Court said it wasn't unconstitutional. Well, you see, we respect the Constitution. As for these examples, as the Minister of Sweden can order listening, you may wish to do so, but wait, first, to become a member of the EU. So we have higher standards, according to you than the EU. Therefore, this is not in line with European standards, but you have brought the Constitution as you have brought. It says that privacy is non-injurious, so we'll see if this belongs to a non-injurious privacy or just "containment" communications. That is why I invite you to stick to your constitution, your common but also ours, since it is formally in force, not Swedish experience, because when we enter the EU, I will become a Eurosceptic, but until then I am not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41858	Two minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41859	The Honorable Chairman, of course we respect the Constitution and of course we will respect the Constitutional Court's decision, in no way has anyone slowed down. What's not true is that if you flaunt and express facts in your region, then someone has the right to interpret it as a conflict with another institution. So, neither DS nor ZES Parliament Club, nor I, personally, who was in the middle with the Citizens' Protector, am I in conflict with the Citizens' Protector and I don't think it's correct to define it in a way that it doesn't conform to the truth. It is, in fact, that she was headed by the Commissioner for Information and the Citizen's Protector for a rather sharp campaign directed towards the National Assembly and the Government because we do not plead, or are not ready to accept the amendments he has submitted. Therefore, that was when the dispute arose, because the amendments were not submitted. And I deeply believe that someone who is the Protector of citizens should stick to the facts and say – I have launched an initiative, I expect from the Committee that he will submit these amendments, because I think it is important for that and for that reason. There's a salva going on, I'm telling you, really, among other things, this, again, don't take it as a conflict, I'm just saying that some things are starting, and then they look like they started on the other side, and they didn't start on the other side. So, at all, that misunderstanding or the debate with those institutions didn't start on our part. She started blogging, started in some discussions and discussions where they participated, to say now what they were, so they're an independent state institution. Both Parliament and other state institutions are responsible, as we are, for building a single system in which we will take account, on the one hand, of the right of citizens to be safe and, on the other hand, of the right of citizens that no one can abuse information against them. And they and we here are responsible for looking for the best solutions to settle these two things. And if we're in the middle of it, then neither do they have the right to say that they're in conflict with us, because they're not, as far as we're concerned, and if they think that because we're arguing the reasons why we think that some of this initiative has no place in this law, so they see it as a conflict, then it's not our fault, then they really need to see what's conflict for them. I am open even if I speak to them directly and agree on the beginnings, the duration and the continuation of communication on every next occasion. But if someone accuses us based on information that is not correct, then it is my duty to, by defending this institution, to say what is true. No one, I'm sure, can interpret it as a conflict between institutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41860	Three minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word, so MPs Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41861	I'd just like to refer to a specific discussion with two sentences saying that we're referring to a Swedish experience and that it's a fan of the Swedish solution. No, I just believe that the proposal put forward in this bill is better regulated in the bill than in the application of the law in Sweden. In any case, the solutions in Serbia, in my opinion, are better than in Sweden, Italy, Great Britain, the Netherlands and Germany. Otherwise, I would just like to point out, since I am a member and a Committee on Constitutional Affairs and a member of the Legislative Committee, that there is a possibility, based on Article 169. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to carry out an assessment of the constitutionality of the law and before its entry into force, therefore, after the vote and, even if the law has not yet been declared, there is the possibility that, at the request of at least one third of the MPs, in such a situation, the Constitutional Court is obliged to decide within seven days.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41862	A minute and 11 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Time is available to the parliamentary group for a minute and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41863	I didn't, Mrs. Kolundzija, talk about the conflict, I was talking about the degradation, or the disrespect of an institution, an institution, not a man, no matter what it's called in that institution, we have to cultivate it. Look what it's all about. You say: He is the first to begin. You can't say what he could do, and all of us, if you put that law in Friday night, and Monday we start discussing. If what counterpart Andric was saying yesterday, you gave us 15 days, then you wouldn't have started it, then it would have been a public debate, it would have opened that question, before we started it, in a public debate, but you'd have messed him up, crushed him, and wanted to be quick. Now you say - he started it. Well, what else could he do for the weekend, but scream and scream, like we scream and scream? The second time, don't do it, so there won't be that conflict, and we'll all contribute to building democratic institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41864	National MP Free Maras, 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41865	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not Mr Ostojic but I have spoken the word "conflict". You, Mrs. Kolundjia, have said the word "settlement" and I can accept that I have mispronounced myself. But also, as Mr Ostojic said, I must remind myself of what led to the amendment proposed by the Citizens' Protector, which also reached the opposition and ruling majority of parliamentary groups, not on the agenda. This is what Mr Ostojić said – when he could stand it, respecting the procedure that exists, when he occupied the board of directors, these are things that we want to talk about. I'm undermining, I said "conflict," and Mrs. Kolundjia, since I see that you didn't listen at this point, you said "dispute" and I accept that I took advantage of the harsh word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41866	The LDP parliamentary group has used the time of the parliamentary group, and the mandated representative remains available for another 50 seconds. On Article 126, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41867	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 126, which reads as follows: 'Article 126 point 1 after the word 'without the consent of the users' is stuck and the words 'except for a certain time' are deleted. This amendment concerns Article 126 of Chapter XVII, which bears the name ‘The secrecy of electronic communications, legal interception and retention of data’. And, the first association of every citizen on this title will probably create an unpleasant feeling that at any time his communication can be controlled, tapped and so on: based on the law, but also on the Constitution, Article 41, specifically, in attitude 2, of this article, since such intentions were found cover in the "determined time". As for the definition of "determined time", the formulation of a certain time, provided for by the legislator, leaves the possibility of a different insufficiently defined interpretation of the provision, which refers to a very important segment of the law. However, how long it may take and how the process is running is absolutely undefined and for someone it may be a month, in a year, for someone over the years. And, if it is a situation where the interception of communications is necessary for the conduct of criminal proceedings or for the protection of the Republic of Serbia, it is very easy to obtain, i.e. to ensure the court's decision, and therefore it would be avoided that someone, at some point in time, is experimenting by listening, or by intercepting the communication of the citizens of this country, and the wording itself in Article 126 says: 'except for a certain time and based on the decision of the court'. So the question arises – are there two formulas here when communication can be intercepted, except for a certain time past the court's decision? Because if that were the case, this vesicle "i" shouldn't exist between these two formulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41868	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41869	I don't think this amendment should be accepted for a number of reasons. First, in Article 41. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in paragraph 2, has been said that derogations are allowed only for a certain period of time. So, 'just for a certain time and based on the court's decision', if necessary for the purpose of running, etc., etc. Therefore, just what is required to be deleted – 'except for a certain time' is defined in the very Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. By the way, is that the only time defined in terms of maximum duration? It is, if we go into the analysis of all those other laws that regulate the handling of security services and everything else - there are deadlines there. So, three months, with a possible extension for another three months, but all these things are defined. However, I could not accept that something that has been regulated in one way in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – that we now accept Mr Ilic's amendments to regulate it in another way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41870	A minute and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to Article 126 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41871	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Article 126, paragraph 2 says: "The provision of Article 1 does not prevent the recording of communications and related traffic data carried out to prove commercial transactions or other business relations, in which both parties are aware or should be aware or are explicitly warned that the communication carried out can be recorded. [[off microphone]] "So they must be aware, I believe that this formula is unclear, not precise enough, not defined enough and can be interpreted differently. Therefore, I have submitted an amendment which reads: Article 126, point 2 of the words "or should they be aware" – are deleted. ''Station 2 is also linked to the previous position, where the interception of electronic communications is carried out which reveals the content of communications, if necessary in order to conduct a criminal procedure or protect the security of the Republic of Serbia. In paragraph 2, it states - recording communications to prove transactions or other business relationships", so when all of this is taken into account, such an important segment of the law, it is clear that it is desirable, necessary and that it absolutely needs to be more precise and clear that this formulation stands. The reasons why this amendment is not accepted states: 'Amendment is not accepted for the reason why it is understood that, in concrete circumstances, the parties had to be aware that their communication was recorded to prove commercial transactions. '"That's what I said and that's why I gave this amendment. Therefore, paragraph 2 states: "In which both sides are conscious", this follow-up, the second formulation – "we should be aware", is completely unnecessary and completely unnecessary. It is therefore necessary to adopt the proposed amendment, as Article 126 would be the position of Article 2. The bill was more acceptable, far more precise and clear and would remove any possibility of a different interpretation of the provision. Once again, it refers to a very important segment of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41872	The 12th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) (National MP Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I have just received information that there has been no tone on either the internal channel or the RTS 2.) National MP Dragan Todorovic says he has information that there is no tone on internal transmission and on television transmission. The tone is gone because the MP held the paper as an obstacle to the microphone. When you take off the microphone, there's no tone. The MP asks if the problem is to explain it one more time. It's no big deal! So, the tone was weak because between the microphones, which conveningly captures the sound that is sent, placed accidentally and unintendedly the paper of a certain thickness as an obstacle in the left hand, and the single paper in the right hand. (The Vice President, Nikola Novakovic, asks: Are you satisfied with the explanation or not?) ) Can we continue the work, MP Dragana Todorovic? Thank you. I am sorry that MP Bojan Mladenovic spoke in the agenda and spoke in the context of the amendment's defence, and I heard him and tried only to give a signal to hold the paper, but I did not want to interrupt him. But I'm sorry it wasn't louder in the O.R. Next time it'll be quite clear. Thank you, Members of the People of Dragan Todorovic and Srdjan Milivojevic, for not talking in the hall, and for MP Zoran Krasic. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 130th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes that this law was never allowed into the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular we had the opportunity to see yesterday and today that the most controversy was about the members of 130 and 128. I have submitted an amendment to delete the words "randomly or" in Article 130, item 1(2). This term absolutely corresponds to the ruling majority. "Or by chance" could have happened to erase something that doesn't suit you, and what's particularly important is that Mrs Nada Kolundzhija said yesterday that there was a European Commission directive since 2002, and that this is the way, and this law, towards faster EU accession and stabilisation. You see, you obviously have a big problem with the truth, first of all. The SRS definitely doesn't have that problem. This was also shown by our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, by publishing the book "Police File", in four tons, on four thousand sides. Do you have the courage, gentlemen, to publish such a thing? Let's say you publish transcripts that all the dirty money from the United States and the EU has entered Serbia to bring down, how did you know to say, the Free Milosevic regime? To announce how you called for the NATO Pact, your friends, to bomb us, and that we'd give in? To announce who were all the locators in Serbia at the time? A lot of people are sitting in government today. Most of them are State Secretarys, and many are sitting in the National Assembly. (The People's MP Zoran Krasic, from the scene, throws: Here he is, recognized. ) Obviously you have this problem, but you need to be aware that there will be absolutely a time when you will have to make an account. I suggest you publish it yourself, because it will be less painful for you. If you don't want to publish it, it'll definitely do the SRS. And what is particularly important is that you did not respect, first of all, the Protector of Citizens, because this law directs you into the privacy of our citizens. There is absolutely no citizen in your orders, Mrs. Kolundjia, and this could have been seen in these past 10 years, because, you have done everything, you just haven't thought of the benefit of Serbian citizens. (National Ambassador Zoran Krasic, from the place: That's right. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41874	45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41875	Madam Chairman, I appeal to Articles 101 and 104, and I think you should have warned the previous speaker, because he made the gravest lies, accusing people of the most terrible things, which they of course didn't do. So if we haven't done anything for those citizens that you've done with your politics, and there are several hundred thousand of them, we've turned them into refugees, then ask them, and they show you in the election. If you think we haven't done enough for these ten years for those billions robbed by the citizens of Serbia, which this country is now returning, through old foreign exchange savings and various pyramid banks while you were in the government and had ministers in the government, we didn't do, or what you think citizens should do is make it all at their expense. So if it's working for the benefit of the citizens, then obviously, it's not a particularly successful venture for you. If you think that in these ten years we haven't done anything to make 27 of the social contributions owed by governments, in which you've sat, return to pensioners, pregnant women, social cases, then we haven't done enough, because you've really done a lot more – you've left them for 27 months without social benefits. If you think we haven't done enough in ten years to regain the country's reputation, in which while you were in power, even Russia wasn't a friend of this country, no single country has stood up for this country, and now Serbia is one of the most creditworthy countries, not only in this region, a country that gets recognition from all the countries of the world for many things it does in the interests of its citizens, if you say we haven't done enough, because you were in the government that killed political opponents... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... And now we're talking about nuances of control.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41876	Article 104 is not injured. It is simple that, during today's debate, the exact same criterion has been applied for all participants in the debate in order for the debate to take place, so that the contents at the edge of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, by telling the MP of the truth or insult, are tolerated because they are within the Rules of Procedure. I do not believe that it would contribute to the debate that the MP was warned, interrupted, and warned, and therefore there was no reaction from the chairman. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on Article 104's injury? (No) I thank you. National MPs Dobrislav Prelic and Zoran Krasic are registered in the electronic system. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) National MP Zoran Krasic believes that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure and is given a word on the basis of Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41877	Okay. Mrs. Comic, you have violated article 27. Rules of Procedure. I rarely call for this, but now you're in the system. Mrs. Hope Kolundji called for Article 101 when I called for article 101, you took my word and punished me. Article 101 is a right to replication. You didn't warn her because you can't because she's your boss. In this way you have shown that you apply the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly with discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41878	People's MP, you don't listen very carefully. If only only a member of the 101st Parliament of the People had mentioned Hope Kolundji, it would have been interrupted as well as any other participant in the debate. The People's Parliament explained the violation of Article 104, believing that MP Dobrislav Prelic was putting falseness and insults at risk the reputation of the National Assembly. There is no doubt that anyone who wishes to speak of the fact that not giving the right to the replication of the infringements of the Rules of Procedure will be interrupted, and I ask you to listen more carefully and explain what is the violation of Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41879	I don't know how you interrupt me, and you didn't interrupt her. Why did you interrupt me when you didn't hear what I wanted to use as an argument?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41880	Because you're not giving the facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41881	She didn't bring up the facts either.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41882	Article 104, a member's injury is a fact. You're saying she got a word based on Article 101, which she didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41883	Let me explain, and then you can conclude. How can you know in advance what I'm going to say? I know there's some kind of psychicity, but this degree of visibility has not been recorded in the National Assembly so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41884	People's MP, it's not about psychicity, 101 and 104, that's two figures. Article 101 – no violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 – can.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41885	Well, you didn't interrupt her to say she couldn't talk about article 101, and you'd give me a warning, you'd be happy to give a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41886	Please explain Article 27's injury. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41887	I'm trying, but you keep interrupting me. I'm gonna have to start over. Here, Hope escapes me again. Mrs. Komic, article 27, means not only to take care of decibels and whether someone is merciful or not, but you must take care of the dignity and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly. And when Mrs. Nada Kolundzija catches fire on poor Dobrislav Prelic, thinking that's where Ivica Dacic sits, you have to jump. It all came down against the SPS, the Slobodan Milosevic regime and everything that's been going on, and now it's quoting Dobrislav Prelic, who's been a member of parliament for two years. You had to warn her, to give a warning, and I urge you to put it to the vote in the voting day, that you have committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41888	The explanation you gave for the infringement of Article 27 is such that I have to say that there is no and repeat the reasons why, just applying Article 27, I believe that the topic is the previous event and the context in which the debate is being held, currently in detail on the proposal for a law on electronic communications, such that all MPs, regardless of what parliamentary groups they come from, have maximum tolerance when it comes to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. If otherwise the first MP from your MP group had dared to advertise one book in the House of the People's Assembly would be punished, one by warning the other, and so on. Since I want us all to participate in the debate together, which we care about, and by the parliamentary groups, and above all, I think we should all stand together, because this is as important as any other law for the House of the People's Assembly, MP Dobrislav Prelic is also heard without warning, as is the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41889	I would just briefly comment on the amendment of my colleague, Dobrislav Prelic, to Article 130(1). Therefore, this member and this position speak of the operator's obligation to protect retained data. The solution contained in the bill is comprehensive and high-quality and there is nothing more logical than to prescribe the obligation of the operator to keep the data in a proper manner, not only from illicit and deliberate destruction but also from accidental destruction. The amendment shall go in the direction of eradicating the operator's obligation to protect data from accidental destruction. Data can be destroyed, damaged and destroyed in an illegal manner with intent, but the situation can happen and the data will be accidentally destroyed. Therefore, it is also necessary for this provision relating to the obligation of the operator to protect data from accidental destruction. Therefore, I do not think that the amendment should be accepted by a colleague, Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41890	From the time of the parliamentary group, one minute was used. MP Dobrislav Prelic is in the electronic system. You have no right to a replica. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 130. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's letter of Hope of Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41891	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to say a few words now, because no matter what member of this law we have been talking about, we have always talked about the same subject, that, on the one hand, there is a need for operators to give insight to competent authorities and services in the fight against crime and in achieving the security of the country, data and, on the other hand, the need to carry out public control of the implementation of this law, as well as other laws and to carry out the work of those services, so as to avoid abuse. The amendment, which was submitted to the Citizens' Protectors' Initiative by the Committee of the Council of the Republic of Serbia on Transport and Connections, is now in favour of achieving a greater degree of control of the enforcement of provisions concerning the rights of certain authorities to obtain information. This amendment gives us the authority to monitor the implementation of these provisions of the law to the Information Commissioner, and we believe that it is precisely that, by means of the fact that it is an independent state body, in its jurisdiction and the protection of personal data and the availability of information, the right of citizens to available information, that it is logical that it is someone who will supervise the implementation of these laws, in order to enable everything that is done to be in accordance with the law, on the one hand, and that any possible abuse by an independent state body can react to, as a society, prevent the authorities from doing their job in the interests of citizens from being able at the same time to mean any possibility of abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41892	Two minutes and five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MPs, members of other parliamentary groups, are interested in how much time is left for the MEP group ZES. That's unusual. People's MPs cast doubt that time is measured correctly. (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the post: We are only asking. Until a moment ago, Natasa Jovanovic was sitting here. If you wish to express your suspicion that the chairman does not measure the time well, then I ask and refer to the Rules of Procedure, and say that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Then I'll refer you to the stenogram and compare the time. Currently, the ZES Group has 12 minutes and 45 seconds. The MP says the European watch is broken. No, he's winded up, People's MPs, so you're interested in how much longer there is to talk about. The 12th Amendment was filed by the National MP Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 132 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 138th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 141. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of members 142 and Article 142 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41893	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have moved to Chapter XX – Transitional and Final Provisions and Article 142 relating to the Special Obligations of the Ministry. The SNS parliamentary group wants to change the parts of members of 142 who, in contradiction with individual members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are mainly related to the chapter of the work of the Agency for Electronic Communications, as we spoke during yesterday's debate, by adding the word "Government and "Special Obligations of the Government and the Ministry" in the title. The position of the first proposed member would remain unchanged and Article 2 would be amended and it would be said: ''The government and the Ministry will adopt sublegal acts implementing this law within 90 days of the entry into force of the law. ''In the title of the member, it is necessary to enter the word – Government, because the Government is responsible under the Constitution for the adoption of sublegal acts. The 90-day period must be sufficient for the Government and the Ministry to pass sublegal acts in order to ensure the conditions for the application of this proposal, i.e. the law. I must remind you that you have put the law in an emergency procedure, not to repeat, on Friday, and Monday has already come to the agenda, and given the fact and the finding that the law in the emergency procedure does not work, quite normally, to leave a deadline of one year for the adoption of sublegal acts. That is why, while respecting the urgency of this law and your proposal, we have also proposed this amendment. After Article 3, we propose to add Article 4, which should read as follows: ''The National Assembly shall appoint the first composition of the Management Board on a proposal from the parliamentary groups within 15 days of the entry into force of the law, which shall act, until the election of the members of the Management Board in a manner prescribed by this law, and for a maximum period of six months. ''In this case, the appointment of a temporary Management Board by special procedure is necessary in order to allow the legal work of the Agency until the election of members provided for by this law. The current members of the RATEL Management Board have expired, as we all know, and this proposal has not resolved the issue of managing the Agency until the election of members of the Management Board. If this is not done in this way, it means that, practically six months, no one will manage the Agency, which is why, for example, the decision in the dispute between Telenor and Telecom will be postponed, i.e. making a decision on the dispute between the two companies. Someone is likely to suffer serious damage, and this great damage will be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The damage will have to be paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, such as the damages these days related to satellite rental directed by the defence ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41894	A minute and 38 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Minister Jasna Matic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41895	I thank the MP who expressed his concern and proposed an amendment to address the issues that have arisen, i.e. the problems that arise as a consequence of the end of the term of office of members of the Management Board of the Republic of Telecommunications Agency and which have been present for some time. What I would like to point out is that the Law which is now in force, in the Law on Telecommunications and in the proposal of the Law, is very clear that members of the Administrative Board perform their duty in full capacity to elect new members and that there can be no doubt about their legality. This is also in this draft of the law that we are talking about today, so there is no dilemma, no doubt that there may be problems or damage that may occur in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41896	Anyone else want a word? If not, National MP Vladan Batic has submitted to Article 142 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic to Article 143. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic to article 144. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 147 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 147 refers to permits for radio stations. This member is prescribed that within three months, all radio stations in Serbia must submit requests for new individual permits. I would remind you that today all radio stations in Serbia already have permits, that under the previous law they have obtained these permits from the previous institution, that they have therefore invested certain capital in the business they have started. Of course, they paid the fees at the time they were given those permits and it was extremely inappropriate, from the SNS position, that these deadlines, and the permits they got, were re-established by this newly founded agency, eventually, were concluded. So before the time when the permit was issued. This creates one serious damage to all those who have entered this business, who, as I said, have invested certain funds. In this way, legal certainty, when it comes to investment, when it comes to entrepreneurship, comes under question. I think the Constitution is also threatened that way, because you can't have one permit that you've issued, now some new solution, some new decision, that you've abolished, because you've entered some legal relationship, based on which all the radio stations, or one number of radio stations, will have some damage. I'm sure you have no intention of making up for it. Eventually, maybe those radio stations that aren't at will or under this law don't meet some technical conditions, which you'll prescribe, to withdraw your license. It may be a certain form of illustration, but certainly one extremely irresponsible relationship with entrepreneurship. Because of this and this relationship, the state administration, we also had a huge loss of jobs in entrepreneurship in the previous year. It may be that this provision aims, what we were already talking about, first of all, to fill the funds of the newly established agency. I am quite sure that the compensation for the issue of new permits, which you have designed, will be quite and very well placed by these future members of the Management Board and the Director of the Agency itself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41898	From the parliamentary group used 45 seconds. Minister Jasna Matic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41899	I thank Mr Antić, for his amendment, I would like to inform him that although his amendment has not been accepted, the amendment of the Transport and Connection Committee has been accepted, which has the same effect, but rather accurately states the obligations of the State and deciminately states that all the permits issued have an importance until their expiry, and that only from the date of entry into force of the law will the permits be issued in accordance with the new law. So your proposal has been accepted in an appropriate way, so that the owners of the radio station do not put new costs, new procedures and new administrative burdens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41900	Does anyone want a word? Before I move on to reading the last amendment to the search in detail, I remind you that the last one is and that after him the right to receive the word has only a representative of the promoter, for all the MPs who still consider that they have time at their disposal. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Transport and Relations, submitted an amendment to Article 147, which the Government has adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I can see that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41901	Thank you, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, the SPS-JS Group has in principle expressed its position. We didn't want to participate in these discussions, which were present yesterday and today in parliament for one single reason, because there was a wish here, I'm going to make a little joke, so Ilija Cvorovic gets her sequel, so the film "Balkan spy two" begins. It's a distant past that's behind us. Why do I say that? It's obvious that individuals here are missing a lot of, say, more knowledge when it comes to technology progress. One of my colleagues said that yesterday, even now it's completely and vague, because LDP MPs were expressing one attitude yesterday, they're taking another position today, and then they explain themselves, explain each other, and they're not there. Of course, today they have also applied for something that may well be introduced in the coming period, which is the Protectors of the rights of citizens. Since we've had cases like this here today. I said the SPS-JS Group supports law-making. We're glad there's been some changes, although we're still leaving the concern about the independence of the regulatory agency. That's where we'll stay, and in the next period we'll see. One of the reasons, we stated in principle, is that for us, the most important thing is that citizens who fall into the social category can get these basic services, and that is the universal service. As someone who once ruled, and today is in power, it is obvious that we are the only ones who have learned lessons from the past. We're going forward, and in the mirror we're looking at the past and we're doing a good analysis. Whatever law here is in the process, then the controversy starts and we go back, like, 10 to 15 years. It's simple, it's unclear why this past, I think we're going to be so often turning behind ourselves, tripping and tripping, and the question is where it's leading us together. If we were to analyze who he was with now, when, who was in the previous government, who was in that government, and today we have the controversy between some who were in the previous government, so they accuse each other simply, we think that the past, of course, should be analysed, but in that positive sense, that everyone sees their mistakes and that we simply move forward. I must say, you have remained in my debt, Minister, please, only around those directives, whether they have been implemented or not, for which I have not received an answer, so that in a few months, they are those directives since November. So, have they been implemented? The draft law was in the process before that. Is it implemented or not, so that after a few months we don't have to work on that change and supplement again? What I'm still interested in is the RS Web domain. It's a national good. Who, why isn't that regulated by law? How is this regulated in other countries in our environment that are members of the EU? I have stated in my statement, that this job is currently being done by an NGO that collects significant funds. I'll just mention that in Montenegro, which is so small, there's, like, 3.5 million profits on that basis. Which of these and for what purpose do the funds go to on that basis?- I'm sorry. (Here, my colleagues from the LDP are returning, i.e. Protectors of the Protector of the Rights of the Citizens. Because that's the question that's left, at least for me and the MP group, like, in the dilemma of what's left of it. I don't want to owe it, I support the law, because it is aimed at regulating clearer technical procedures when it comes to licenses and getting them. As far as the monopoly is concerned, we're quite clear, it's past for us. Simply, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will speak positively in the voting day, when the proposed law is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41902	Five minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Minister Jasna Matic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41903	With regard to the compliance of this draft law with EU directives, I would like to tell you that the law has incorporated what the newest Directive of 2009 is adopting. And these are, above all, definitions and the ability of the Agency to prescribe service quality parameters, which is of great importance for the protection of users. What has not yet been implemented in this law stems from our status in the EU accession process, and means part of the reporting obligations of the European Commission and the EU bodies that exist only for Member States, and for us there is not yet. That part has not been implemented, and everything else has been implemented. The question you mentioned earlier, the issue of managing the RS domain, is a question that has not been regulated on the world level. The example of Montenegro you mentioned for us is not relevant, unfortunately, because Montenegro has received a domain that has great commercial value and attractiveness because of its name. Their domain is "me", meaning "we". It means "I" in English, which dominates the Internet. It has great commercial value and most of the domains with this extension are precisely the commercial address of different companies that provide services, and are not based at all in Montenegro. We were willing and we had some debates to integrate part of the law that would deal with these issues, but there really is no unique world practice, and there is still no problem with us in that area, and we felt it was better not to regulate the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41904	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's letter of Hope of Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41905	The Honorable President-in-Office and Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, we have brought an end and debate into the details of the e-communication law and, unfortunately, out of all our debate in principle and in detail, we cannot see at all what this law is about. So, unfortunately for me, we were dealing with what this law is not about, and we weren't dealing with what this law is really about. It deals with the conditions and means of carrying out activities in the field of electronic communications, the competences of state authorities in the field of electronic communications, the position and work of the Republic Agency, the activity of electronic communication under the general authorisation regime, communications networks and so on. This law deals with an extremely important area in which the state has a huge interest, citizens have a huge interest. This is the area of technological development and promotion of many areas, and that is why it is extremely important and I can say that the ZES and DS Group will vote in favour of this law, first of all, because it does, in a really, very good way, regulate this important area. We'll vote, among other things, because he's not dealing with BIA issues. He doesn't do listening. He doesn't deal with everything that's been tried here to be presented to the citizens as the matter of this law. So, this law deals with the arrangement of electronic communications space, which, again, I will repeat, like all other technological developments, brings with it huge advantages, but also new challenges and certainly a challenge for every society to have advanced technologies function as citizens and to prevent abuse that would harm these same citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41906	Two minutes and five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. People's MP, Free Maras. Time is available for 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41907	I'm sorry my SPS colleague didn't understand what we were saying yesterday. We agree that the European Directive says the documents should be kept, but in all European countries the documents are available in the same way as the content is available. It's up to the minister to decide that somewhere. We have a court ruling on content. We're looking for the same thing for the documents. One more thing, Mr. Radenkovic. It's very distasteful that you said that we are the protectors of the Protector of the Citizens. The LDP has always been in a place where citizens were threatened, where human rights were threatened. I will remind you only of the year 2007 and Novi Sad, when the march of those who belong to the National Machine was organized and some of the institutions of this country were behind them. At the time, the LDP was with the citizens and managed to prevent their march.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41908	National MP Dejan Radenkovic wants a word. You've had since the time of the authorized representative for nine minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41909	I've got plenty of time, but I don't want to argue with a colleague, Marash. Just one correction, colleague Marash, I understood perfectly everything. The difference between us and the individuals who come here, so they use a few minutes or ten minutes of time to say some of their views, and one day the attitudes are this, the other day they're different, is that we spend a good part of the time in this room, unlike the individual and left and right benches that only fill and empty if needed. I don't want us to get in the middle of this right now. It's perfectly clear our position when we put it out in principle and it's quite clear what's going on here for two days. I can't insult anyone, here, my colleague Hope has now said that we haven't been lenient about what's important in this law, and we've paved the way for days, and for us and for the media, about who, who, who is spying on and who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who does it bother today that someone who deals with crime and other illegal activities, that the police and the BIA are doing their job? Totally vague. Why is someone who's clean afraid of anything? Two days and days of whether it should be done or not, and finally we say – the Constitutional Court will give its final opinion and we respect the opinion of the Constitutional Court. Why did we spend two days not talking about more important things in this law? Has anything gone past we haven't seen? Have we blinded ourselves to the controversy of who, who? Your colleague Ivan Andric said well yesterday – people, release the cannon, today so much technology has advanced that we no longer know who is listening. It went so far. Let go of the past. You've released a Balkan spy. Forget about that stuff. This has gone far. We can't keep track of the development of the technological process in the world. We do some teaching, so I don't have to joke too much. I'd like to conclude this controversy. I don't want to go further, and I don't want to argue and who understood what he understood and how he understood the time would show everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41910	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, two minutes and 25 seconds have been used. National MP Free Maras, 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41911	I think what you just said, Mr. Radenkovic, is best said that you didn't understand anything the previous two days of what the LDP was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41912	The People's Messenger Dejan Radenkovic has the word, and the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundžija.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41913	Mr. Marash, I won't let you insult me again. I'm telling you, I understand perfectly. It's obvious what you understand and when at what point you understand and what you want to understand. Yesterday you have one attitude, and today you and Ostojić, even you two can't explain each other. You know, you pick up one after another and you explain your colleague's or your colleague's attitudes. That's what everyone saw, not me, but everyone in this room and the citizens of Serbia who watched the broadcast. We'll take the stenograms and we'll compare what Ivan Andric said, what you said and what Ostojić said. But, well, it's all about getting some political points from your party. So don't insult me that I didn't understand anything. I was authorized, I made my point, we said what scares us, time will show what it will be and how it will be, whether we will make changes and supplements quickly. We've made our point, and we've got him and we respect him and we appreciate him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41914	A minute and five seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41915	The Honorable Chairman, I'll be very brief indeed. It is true that there has been a misunderstanding in the debate on this law, but there has been a misunderstanding over those who have begun to claim that this law deals with what it does not deal with, that it is within the jurisdiction of this law to regulate issues that cannot be the jurisdiction of this law or this area. The misunderstanding was made when some started to claim that this legislation was about spying, that this law on unauthorized listening, etc. Then there was a misunderstanding. There was no misunderstanding because someone tried to make arguments to prove that it wasn't the matter of this law, that this law deals with something else entirely. It is not correct to judge those who tried to resolve these two things and say – wait, let's discuss this law. If there's a problem with the fact that maybe some laws that regulate it aren't the best way to regulate that area and that there's a space for abuses, let's talk about these laws, and that's certainly not this law. Therefore, all those discussions that were an attack on those who persistently return to the text of the law and say – that's not what the law says, and that's not what the law does, the attack on them was politically incorrect, because they are represented as defending some institutions that are hated, and that they attack some institutions that are loved, righteous, and all the best they know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41916	A minute and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is expressing a legitimate and well-founded suspicion that this law can really challenge some fundamental rights of citizens and not only the SRS, according to people representing these so-called independent institutions established in accordance with European standards. That is what Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, Commissioner for Public Information, says Mr. Sasa Jankovic, Protector of Citizens. Now, if the opinion of these independent institutions in such a delicate matter is not relevant and if the ruling majority has no intention of accepting the opinion of these independent institutions, which are very competent to plead on this issue, then let's abolish these independent institutions. What is the purpose of the Commissioner for Public Information, what is the purpose of the Protector of Citizens, if their position will not be incorporated into legal solutions which and how they can lead to abuse and how they can question human rights and freedoms in this country. Now, Mrs. Kolundzija, this is not the first case that you form an institution, that you say, you know, dear citizens, this is in line with European standards, all EU countries have the Manchester, all have the Commissioner for Public Information, all have some independent bodies dealing with the fight against corruption, so it should exist in the Republic of Serbia. Do you remember what happened to the Anti-Corruption Agency's decision? The Anti-Corruption Agency said 23 DS MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly are in conflict of interest and that by April 1st they must define which function they are holding. So how did you respect this independent institution established in accordance with European standards? You didn't respect her at all, but you realized to address the Constitutional Court, so that the Constitutional Court freed you from your obligation to obey the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. And what you're doing today, what has been done with the Anti-Corruption Agency, shows in the best possible way what the government's attitude towards these so-called independent institutions is. We will respect these independent institutions, we will respect them, but only if they think as we think and only if they are willing to defend our interests. If the Commissioner for Public Information says something that doesn't suit us, we won't respect it, if the Guardian of Citizens says that this law could put citizens' rights at risk, we don't care about the Guardian of Citizens. We are against conflicts of interest, we are for European standards, we are for the rule of law, but when the Anti-Corruption Agency tells us that our MPs are in conflict of interest, what do we care about the Anti-Corruption Agency, we have our Constitutional Court, it will free us from obligations to comply with the legal rules. There, these are European standards in practice. There are independent institutions on paper, in practice opinions and views of these independent institutions are not taken into account at all. It is only taken when it corresponds to the governing structures. When they don't respond, we don't care about Shabic and Jankovic and this lady who's president of the Anti-Corruption Agency. That doesn't apply. It will be as we say: if it is our interest to respect the law, we will respect it, if it is not in our interest to respect the law, we will not respect it. Well, where is it in the world? That the MP is also the director of a public enterprise. You have cases in Vojvodina, a man has seven functions, seven public functions performs and no one can do anything to him. Why? Because he's a member of some of the ruling parties. What there is a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, we don't care, we don't care about European standards, it'll be what we say. That's how it's gonna be with this electronic communications law. Not only does the SRS say so, not only does the DSS, LDP, say there is a possibility of abuse of BIA rights, the independent institutions say. And what Mrs. Kolundzhija said was not the essence of this law – it is, this law is, Mrs. Kolundjia, lex specialis and in relation to the Code of Criminal Procedure and in relation to the BIA Act. He gives BIA and intelligence services some rights that they do not have under these basic laws, nor by the Code of Criminal Procedure, nor by the BIA Act. On the principle that a special law repeals the general law, this law will allow secret services in the Republic of Serbia, that in situations where they assess that it is in their interest to secretly intercept citizens' talks, reveal their content and abuse them at that political moment when it suits one of the ruling parties. That's our legitimate suspicion. Don't tell us we didn't get the law right. It is possible that Alexander Martinovic is wrong, it is possible that an individual from LDP or DSS is wrong, and how is it possible that someone you chose to protect the rights of citizens, someone who is in charge of taking care of information of public importance?- I'm sorry. Well, isn't that, as rational people, a suspicion that something's wrong with this law?- I'm sorry. If you do not trust the people you chose, you have assured us of credibility and Rodoljub Šabić and Saša Janković; and professional, honest, professional, and such, and chosen according to European standards. Now that individuals tell you something that doesn't match our current political interests -- they're not good... (President: six minutes. )......................................................................................................... We don't care what they say. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41918	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, and time is available for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41919	Of course, it's a lot easier to get along when you don't have to stick to facts and when they don't commit you to anything. Then everything you say is just standing for itself and it's very hard for a man to say, wait, let's get back to the facts and see what the facts are, and then let's talk about it. So, I never understood that the formation of independent state bodies is the formation of some institution over the civil institutions of the supreme arbitration judge without any criteria. The independent state body is precisely because, as has been done, it indicates possible errors, failures, etc. We took this very seriously, very seriously considered what came to us as an initiative and based on insight into all the laws that define the jurisdiction of the service, the criminal procedure, the obligations of the state authorities and their jurisdiction, we have drawn the conclusion that in one of these initiatives, in Article 128, it is not the place in this law. Our legitimate right is if the Constitutional Court assesses that we have made a mistake, we will respect that decision. Therefore, we have neither been disavowed nor demoted, nor clashed, and what kind of words have already been used in relation to independent state institutions. We didn't do any of that. We have been very serious and very thorough in considering this law, considering the entire legal system in which this law should be implemented, among other things, and we have concluded that it is not a provision that should stand in this law. And, again, I say, it is the Constitutional Court that will give the final court and we, believe and independent state institutions, will respect the Constitutional Court's decision. What could have been the subject, but not about this law and I repeat it again, is the topic – is there a sufficiently built security service control system in this country? Is there a system enough built to prevent abuse? So if you're attacking a law because you think abuse is possible, then you need to talk about how to prevent abuse, not how to define an area that has its parent laws defined by one law that is not a parent law. I am truly pleased that all those who have attacked us most, that we are even forming independent state institutions, who have attacked us most passionately for choosing these people that we have chosen now, think that these institutions are necessary for a democratic society, we also think that they are necessary for a democratic society, that it is necessary for all institutions to support these independent bodies and institutions, and we are doing our utmost to give them all the necessary support and assistance to be built in what they should be. But if anyone thinks or now abuses, as I would say, those institutions to attack political opponents, arguing that these institutions are now infallible gods whose last one is, then disabling the institution you're sitting in. So, as a parliamentarian, I do not allow the construction of one institution to disabling all other state institutions, it is simply not the democratic system we should be building. Each institution should have its own integrity, but that is why, apparently, by supporting certain institutions is not allowed, in my deep confidence, the degradation of institutions that are also important in this society. Once again I just want to say - I'm sorry that I don't know whose intention it is, perhaps by mistake, this debate turned into a debate on a subject that is not really the subject of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41920	Five minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic is in the electronic system. The time and power of representative and time for the parliamentary group has been used. Is there anyone else who has the time to answer the word? (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the place: Can I get the right to a replica? You have no right to a replica. I ask the People's MPs not to earn it, since throwing it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do any of the MPs who have time at their disposal want a word? (No) This concludes the search of the bill in particular. I ask, does the proposing representative, Minister Jasna Matic, want the final word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41921	I would like to thank all the MPs who took part in the debate on this law, especially the few MPs who have really debated the subject of this law. That's where I would agree with Mrs. Colundge if, unfortunately, the primate in the debate on this law had taken over one subject that was not defined by this law. The subject of privacy protection, i.e. the possibility of intercepting and retaining data, is defined only in this law and within electronic communications. This topic is set out in other laws, laws on criminal proceedings and laws on various data-gathering services. Here it is only explained what it means in electronic communications, and it has obviously contributed to a better understanding of this subject, as well as the framework that has existed in our laws for years. Also, I would like to say that one of the two amendments, for which the proposal has arrived from the Citizens' Protector, one of these amendments has been adopted and it explains and gives the trustee the right to control information of public importance and protection of personal data, which was the intention of the legislator, but was not as decided and clearly formulated as it is now done with the help of the amendments. Also, I would like to say once again that it is a great shame that this law has not been discussed anymore, which regulates the area that has dramatically changed all our lives in the last ten years. That's what every citizen in his personal life can conclude. We all lived up to ten years ago a different life, now we live a life that daily implies using mobile phones, for most of us and computers and portable computers, as well as access to information throughout the world that can be obtained at the same time from every place and on every issue and topic. Our lives will also change dramatically over the coming years, and not only in the areas where they have changed and so far, the way we communicate, the way we work, the way we have fun, but the dramatic change in the way we learn, the way we treat ourselves, the way we get from the state all those services that the state provides us, whether we are citizens or we are entrepreneurs and representatives of different companies. That's why this law is of paramount importance. Such laws are often passed in all countries of the world because of the explosive, very fast development of technology in this area. It is necessary for the laws to send their changes to the development of technology, so that laws do not become an obstacle to investment, the introduction of new services and technologies and thus improving the competitiveness of the economy and the quality of life of citizens. For Serbia, which has a problem in both areas and which is necessary to improve its economy's competitiveness in the short term to find its place on the global market and to make it very difficult for its citizens who have lost a lot of quality of life due to the decades of crisis, to improve the regional development issue, which is very dramatic and very bad for us, one of the worst in Europe, it is necessary for us to use new technologies that are currently making great progress in these areas. It is a shame that this is no longer being discussed, but I will see it as the recognition of the highest body of the legislative authority, that there was no controversy in these areas of this law and that these areas of the law regulated everything that you expected from us. I hope that this law will make progress in information technologies, in communication technologies, and that our citizens will see very quickly that they will have a greater choice of services, that the quality of services will be improved, that their rights will be better protected and that their lives will be better quality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41922	I hereby conclude the review of the proposal for a law on electronic communications in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank the promoter and the associates, and Minister Jasni Matic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION LAW - What about the point of the agenda that was second? A single search has been carried out, therefore, not a joint principled search, but a unique search due to the proposal for an act. In the case of a single search, the debate is at the same time about the draft act in principle and in particular, unlike the 3rd point, which is now on the agenda. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, in connection with the search in particulars of the 3rd item of the Agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, has also called for the sittings of Radvoje Mitrovica, State Secretary, Slobodan Jauković, Assistant Minister and Lela Rudić, adviser to the Ministry of Education. Before we move on to reading the names of the MPs of the MPs of the amendment, I remind you that representatives of the MPs are authorised: MP Nikola Krpic, MP of the PUPS; MP Nenad Prokic, MP of the LDP; MP Miletic Mihajlović, MP of the SPS-JS; MP Zoran Shami, MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP of Milet Poscurica, MP of the Serbian Parliament; MP Jovan Nesovic, MP of the G17 plus and MP Goran Mihajlovic, MP of the SRS. I ask the presidents and the authorised representatives if there are any changes in the names of authorised representatives to provide us with information on this. The amendments will be extended to the presidents of the parliamentary groups, or to the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The co-workers of the ministry can come in, of course. The third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Higher Education You have received amendments which were submitted to the Bill: Nikola Žutić, Miletić Mihajlović, Milisav Petronijević, Nada Kolundžija, Dragoljub Micunović, Nataša Vuković, Vlatko Ratković, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijavić, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Pošurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čuć, Dragan Čuić, Dragan Čalić Čalić, Praljan Čalić, Praljan Šalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žalić, Nepad Palić, Nepad Palić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić Palić, Žalić Palić, Žalić Palić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić Palić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić. You have received a report from the Committee on Education and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before we move to search the draft law in particular, I remind you that the MPs of Natasa Vučković, Nenad Konstantinović and Nada Kolundžija have drawn all three amendments together to Article 11. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41923	Gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Minister, the government has rejected this amendment for the reason that the amendments to Article 1 submitted by MPs Miletic and Petronijevic are said to ensure that national, European and universal values of cultural heritage are respected. I must point out that my amendment was not presented to the government in the form I imagined. Because of the short time for the amendment, there were discrepancies with the competent congregation services. The amendment after the words - Article 1 is deleted without my formulation of Article 4 paragraph 1 point 5, which reads - respect for the general humanistic, humanistic and democratic values with respect for European and national traditions. My amendment constitutes a compromise solution between the national-traditional formulation referred to in Article 4(5) of the Law on Higher Education and the existing globalistic formulation of Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. In my first plan, I threw out Serbian words – general human, but not in today's neoliberal sense of universal, but in the traditional unideological view of cultural heritage. Such a formulation would, in my opinion, include scientific, religious and cultural values outside European civilizations, e.g. Buddhism, Islam, Jews and others. They would normally be represented in the university class. The accepted amendment of Members Petronijevic and Miletic lack the word – general human or universal values, although the government's explanation states that Miletic and Petronijevic's amendment provide respect for national, European and universal values, so I believe that this supplement would complete the amendment and in the direction of the extra-European evaluation of vanradational civilization achievements and their normative representation in higher education. Finally, it is a good thing that the Government changed Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which, as I said in my own separate opinion, could have caused fatal consequences for the survival of national and traditional but traditionally European in Serbia's education system. With its addition, the universal, scientific and cultural domains outside the European space would be covered. You see, Mr. Minister and gentlemen MPs, that we are not a retrograde, xenophobic, nor are we against foreign scientific and cultural influences, but we are against the existing abnormal clocking of the national, or traditional of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41924	One minute and 15 seconds of MP time have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Miletic Mihajlovic and Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Education Committee have accepted this amendment. We don't have a report from the Legislative Committee. If there were, then this amendment would become an integral part of the bill. This is how the Assembly will plead on him in the day of the vote. National MPs Nada Kolundžija, Dragoljub Micunovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41925	Therefore, in a series of changes foreseen by these amendments to the Law on Higher Education, it was clearly aimed at one generally lenient relationship with those directly related to law enforcement, which is why the laws exist. For students on the one hand, for a higher education chamber or even one that deals with the transfer of knowledge and, after all, something in which only the ministry had to be incorporated, the relationship between the institution and the ministry that existed. In all of this, it is basically a Bologna Declaration, which was an initial mechanism for creating such a law and in some way destroying the tradition of the education system, so in addition to the generally recognised and clearly defined tendency to reduce such concessions, the negative effects of implementing the law written by this concept seem to have gone, to me, in an unnecessary change in Article 1. That unnecessarily speaking and the fact that an amendment to the SPS was adopted, and that Nikola said at least that such an amendment had been adopted, that it would not remain so impersonally-universal, synthetically constructed amendment that meant nothing and that we wanted to fix one of the ideas once. It can be disputed whether the way the parliamentary group, whose amendment has been accepted, is equal or worse than or worse than the amendments proposed by our parliamentary group, is simply the fact that it is really unnecessary and what is behind the hills when such a definition has been followed by such a change of members, but not by anyone asked. I believe that if we don't look paranoidally at the matter, that sitting from the EU is looking for changes, amendments to the law. The amendments to the law are proof of the weakness of the legal solution and are being initiated from the inside. As the change of this law was not, this basic law was not on the inside run except by some imposed need, and imposed on the sides, and could have been done with much less damage, and this amendment that we thought was better left behind, that something we were asked to do would not be denied and that we gave everything a national mark, if we had already made our national education system, with a high and proven tradition, completely, with great adverse consequences, worked out and brought into the state in which it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41926	A 25-second mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41927	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I felt that I should report for amendments to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education and I think, with all the respect of colleagues who have expressed their views, that many more big words have been used than the content of what is proposed, especially in relation to the content of what is accepted. For example, I will just remind myself that in the existing Law on Higher Education under point 5, the work of higher education is based on the following principles: respect for the humanistic and democratic values of European and national traditions. Three parliamentary groups, DS, or ZES, SNS and SRS, have proposed different variations and constructions of words related to this member, or this amendment. We have accepted the position, i.e. the amendment of counterparts Miletic and Petronivic, which is to respect the humanistic and democratic values of national and European traditions and values of cultural heritage. According to us, we have absolutely included in this formulation everything the three parliamentary groups have individually suggested and I think that this is something that can absolutely satisfy the Assembly, and that is significant for the laws, because we have actually just added the value of cultural heritage, this remains as it was in the provisions of the Law on Higher Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41928	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, we, in front of the SNS, have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and otherwise this member refers to the composition of the National Council. Our amendment is viewed as eradicating attitudes 1, 2 and 3. For the sake of the public, it is essential that this amendment to the bill increases the number of members of the National Council to 21, and, on the other hand, in point 3) instead of four now seven members should be appointed by the Government, so that practically 21-thirds of the members of the National Council are directly under the influence of the Government. We believe that this increases the government's participation in the work of the National Council significantly. On the other hand, we also have relevant information that this practice is contrary to the European Association of National Councils, which has already made appropriate remarks that our national council does not have sufficient independence in its functioning. So we felt, and also in that principle debate, many fellow MPs from other opposition parties have indicated that such a law, I use Professor Shami's expression, is, in fact, the least politically, and that it is appropriate to give appropriate independence in the work of the National Council, which will be based on a doctrinal professional presence concerning this profession. We believe that this amendment should be accepted because it is appropriate to this spirit of the law on autonomy, not only of the university, but also of the independence of the national council.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41930	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41931	With all the respect for the arguments expressed by the esteemed colleague, I don't think they stand for the simple reason why if we refer to other countries' practices, the practice is, believe me, I've been asking a little question, to use the mildest term, the most fantasticly different. The National Council for Higher Education elects the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So you'll choose him. The composition of the National Educational Council has been established in a way where we have 14 professors, i.e. people from higher education and institutes in the highest titles, very competent people who and how they have their independence and autonomy in decision-making. We're including students for the first time. We will include for the first time representatives of minority communities when deciding on their issues that are important for their part in the education system. When I say that experiences are different, I'll give you an example of one in the surrounding countries where the council chooses a government, not a congregation, but a government. You know the difference between a congregation and a government. For example, I haven't noticed that anyone brought that question as problematic. That's not what this is about, the National Assembly of Elections, and this is about seven representatives of the 21-member government making up a third. Dear colleagues, with all due respect, I think there is one wrong approach when it comes to autonomy and independence. That autonomy, but in what autonomy? Autonomy in the process of education, in the programmes, in the course, in the textbooks, in the study, in the giving of evaluations. This is about the National Educational Council, which must establish a strategy of higher education, a policy of enrolment and many other things that are related to higher education. Can this be done without a representative of the state? I don't think so. Who's supposed to pay for that? Will the teachers pay for it themselves? Do you think they're able to make everything come true? We had one situation. For the first time perhaps in the history of multi-party Serbia, we have given the task force exclusively from high-school people to make one law, and they did not agree on it themselves. I have here the records of councils and Senates of universities in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Novi Pazar and other state universities, where they appear in a different way about the content of the proposed concept made by the working group, which was done by all their colleagues. So, the university professors themselves did, and the other university professors disagree with that concept and then the question arises -- who is that someone who should give the final court? We think that seven representatives of the state versus 14 or 7 of the 21 total number is not something that raises the absolute right, the possibility and autonomy of universities and higher schools of vocational studies in Serbia to propose those solutions that will be the most comprehensive for them. I beg your pardon, and even these people who are proposed by the state, do you think they won't be from the university? Why do you doubt that they will represent with a less tenacity if you want both aggression or sacrifice of higher education attitudes compared to these others? Why? So far, practice has shown that the National Council for Higher Education is absolutely doing its job. You've seen this congregation in the last five years, but in a different composition, she chose it five years ago and there was no saying about it then. You know how, since we are, I dare say, both me and a colleague with an experience of MPs, it happens almost always that the congregation majority choose the bodies they choose. There are exceptions when everyone votes, but as a rule, the majority is a congregation, because everyone has their own approach. An increase from four to seven is not some big increase. We increased because we wanted to include simply some other people, or from other areas. He will propose 12 representatives and two from the high school of vocational studies, which is 14. They can absolutely make any decision if they fear the influence of the state, but those seven professors who are representatives of the state, they should also take care of this state dimension. The state dimension is called how much it can come up with, what it needs to produce, how the state can react and all together think differently, because we have seen that some of the solutions that the professors are autonomously giving are not sustainable in practice. I think the argument that an increase in the number of members from four to seven can make the role of the state more significant than it is simply does not stand, because autonomy is not questioned. Three representatives of the state can only contribute more to the quality work of the National Council for Higher Education and, in particular, these solutions that we have made. Calling for the inexperience of others is, with all due respect, an esteemed colleague, something that is difficult to explain, because each country applies its own ways of modeling the education system, or higher education, so that you can find a glow of completely different solutions. This is about the next thing – the Assembly will elect these representatives. The government will propose seven out of 21. Fourteen remain from higher education, institutes and higher schools of vocational studies. I think that this relationship itself says that there will be no problem in the work of the council, nor in any way questioned by the autonomy of higher education, on the other hand, that the representatives of the state will help, with their small involvement in the structure of the council, to make decisions even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41932	Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41933	Basically these first few amendments to the bill are something that needs to be the basis for a system of values in this activity, and that first member that refers to principles that should be respected, where I think a mistake has been made which has been formulated as a principle that cannot be a principle. What is this principle of respect? I respect someone to tell him good day, so the neighbor would say -- look what's good, cultured, etc., but everything he says, I say -- tie the cat to the tail, I know what kind of man he is. It's one interpretation of the word "respect," but we have one flaw to make everything a principle, so we're also building a principle where some things can't be formulated. Then the dilemma opens – is what we say the principle is something that obliges the future and therefore needs something to be organized, or what we say the principle just confirms something that already exists with us? Of course, there is freedom of scientific creation and it cannot be envied, if I may say so, by the Earth's qualifications. Of course, every scientific, every professor follows his own area, everything new, so whether it comes from Asia, Africa, Europe, scientists don't care, it's important to keep track, to be in progress, because it's the basic task of scientists to come up with some new knowledge through scientific methods. It's a propo of that first member. Apropho of this second amendment, there's an old saying, which the serpent burns, he's afraid of. That's why the amendments are like this. Then the central issue is inevitably raised – not only when it comes to this national council, but also our other collegiate bodies, where standards, planning documents, strategic documents for one area should be created. What's he supposed to dominate? No one is likely to argue that it should dominate expertise and knowledge. The fact is what Mr. Obradovic says, set up 10 university professors to agree on some things, the devil will agree. By definition, they can't agree because they're individuals, because they're also making some reach in scientific creation. They're critical of things, they're crossing some barriers, they're opening up some new spaces, etc. I don't think it's too much fear of politics, but there's no way around that political influence either. Of course, it should be reduced or completely removed in the area where education should be expressed, first of all, profession, not only from the point of view of matter of some area of scientific discipline, but also from the profession and from the point of view of education, and that is also a very important profession, in which way, how to declare some knowledge, how to check. Of course, when it comes to these standards, it doesn't really matter what standards this work or business is doing, maybe it's better in this area to talk about higher education jobs, not work, but well, that's another topic. It is good that Minister Obradovic said that there is almost no single solution in these countries where Eurofanatics strive. Each state has adapted its system to this central higher education institution, which designs programs and strategies, so somewhere it is chosen by the government, somewhere the minister, somewhere in parliament, is being elected, and that is all within what you've made a bauk, and that's what you said is Bologna. It's all about Bologna, and when the government, and when parliament and when the minister chooses. I am much closer to this opinion that the minister is forming a commission for all these things, using those experts who will declare their expertise, and then unite the part that needs to finish the job to provide the funds and to implement it in practice, but well, this concept has come to us that the National Assembly is choosing everything and everything, so probably in the next allocation of mandates to elect the presidents of home councils. Because something like that can be a European standard here. When I see that lady, she just shakes her heels, that's how European standards turn out on the sidewalk. Everything here can be presented by a European standard, but the question is what is operational, what is effective and what is useful? That should be dealt with by law, among other things, and we should be looking for something. If existing solutions guarantee that what is a profession, knowledge, is not threatened in any way, and I don't think anyone can endanger it, not just from the ministry, but from the government, then any solution is more or less acceptable. But go back to what, this dialectic between a snake and a lizard, if done, and that would already be the kind of abuse of some powers, if that happens, then we can be sure that politics can put pressure on it, and that in its action, not only this institution, since it is in some way a transmission in relation to universities, universities, etc., it is a political transmission, in terms of political influence. I'm interpreting that all of these discussions, where in some way they express doubts that some group domination in some collegiate body can have consequences, and these amendments, first of all, are, if I may say so, justified fear or amplified for experience of what happened in some nearer or distant past. As a rule, this autonomy and freedom of creation should be respected, following these new trends, as it is impossible to avoid scientific and cultural influence. It doesn't occur to anyone alive to frame it, to build a wall, to prevent it, it's impossible to prevent, science doesn't take it. The state has to finance in that part how much material opportunities allow it. It needs to be balanced, found. Is it good this time? I don't think he's good. I'm very disappointed in principle. This didn't go with this law, so we're clear. Mr. Obradovic, you remember the first time the Law on Higher Education was brought, how the National Council was chosen at the time of Gašino, so after Mrs. Colic came, etc., who suffers, whether they have a session, whether they have no session, whether they have done anything, whether they have done anything. How did they work? It's left, etc. Here is simply one trend of quasi-deetatisation and decentralisation and everything and everything goes down to some different levels, and then after a while it's realized that it doesn't work, it absolutely doesn't work – it doesn't work. We chose members of the National Educational Council in the series. Do you remember? In the series, then twice the number of candidates, and then some intersection is made, so you can see that they didn't do anything, absolutely nothing. Why? There's no necessary seriousness coming from the state. We need to look for solutions. I am truly in favour of the state doing its job for which it is responsible, that many collegiate bodies, where the profession should be expressed, can be committees with advisory opinions etc., which are quite binding for state authorities, but degrade state functions, abandoning regulation, leaving control, supervision, some, I would say, quasin-government organisations is destroying the state. A team before we are a very small country that should thus assign its state functions to those who would do so on behalf of the state and who have absolutely no responsibility, may even have some of their own individual interests. You have seen for yourself -- the biggest advocates of Bologna, when it passed with those laws, did not go to private universities, but returned to the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Why? Because they know, they know where the waist is, where the quality is. They didn't apply what they advertised to themselves, they applied it to themselves, but to who gets caught. So now -- the Grock's out-of-state department, the out-of-state department of this, that, etc. You cook, mix that porridge, get out of the way you know and can. Let me remind you, Mr. Shami read to you seven days ago how many people are doctoring, mastering some private colleges. If standards are made, then the application of standards should guarantee that the same quality of knowledge is obtained at both state and private colleges for the same degree. Mr. Shami read those data, and based on that, we can all say it's not the same quality of knowledge, but the quality of money appears. That's what to say. Because now we've promoted a new European value - you've got money, you're very beautiful. You've got money. You're very smart. You have money - you are desirable in every society. You have money - you have to drive 16 cars. You got money. Everybody loves you. If that's a new value, then say people, that's the new value we're looking for. Close both machine and construction, so let the buildings fall, it doesn't matter, it's important that the man has the money. He's folded the money. And the state behaves according to the system – give money. You're in charge of 30 billion. You didn't, lucky for us, pull everything back. Why didn't you pull everything? Because there's nowhere to spend. You don't have anywhere to go. They gave you these to make sure you'd do a very good job of doing this dirty work. This doesn't apply to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41934	11 minutes and 40 seconds of MP time have been used. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41935	Thank Mr. Krasic for the part of the exposure that concerns, if I may say, supporting the strengthening of the role of the state in higher education. I don't agree with the other part, and I don't share your view that these solutions can be problematic, otherwise they wouldn't be proposed. Of course, practice will show what's best, but I need to remind you of something, dear colleagues. This is the law passed in 2005. The second time we're changing certain members, we're not essentially going to change everything. We're trying the system that was established in 2005 to make it as good as possible. I have to tell you something that is an absolutely unique position of discussion at universities, whether because of the content of the proposal which was the subject of debate or because of the atmosphere and situation that exists in higher education, but there was absolutely a view that the role of the state in higher education should be strengthened. Believe it or not. On the councils and senates of state universities, it was absolutely an attitude to strengthen the role of the state in higher education, precisely because of some of the things that happened in the years before, and in the administrative competences of the ministry, and through criminal provisions and through more precise determination of certain things that were the subject of this law, clarification of procedures, quality determination and other things. I have to tell you, that's what we used to do. We now propose a solution where the rule of doctoral dissertation, of course, is decided at the level of a higher education institution, by their internal act, but consent should be given to two ministries, just to avoid this situation that existed. There's another situation I have to stress. Now I've found it in this existing law. Article 12 says the National Council reports to the National Assembly on its work at least once a year. If we are in a situation where what is the content of the law and we realize nothing bad about the previous period, but I am talking about this present and future one, then many questions will be easier to resolve, or something that is a misunderstanding will cease to be. Because we've seen that a significant part of the problem is exactly in that opus and field called non-response. It seems to me that your colleague Ragush has asked about the accreditation. It's a number of objects, and it doesn't respond to them. The accreditation committee rightly points to some phenomena, but we haven't had that area. And also, about these dissertations that Mr. Shami was talking about, if we didn't do the rule, if we didn't do the procedure, if we didn't establish the criteria, then what's going on is happening to us, and we have bodies that should do it all. Is it possible that within such a short period of time at one university, so many people can receive doctoral dissertation? Who are these people who guarantee their signatures the quality of this dissertation? Because, in order for a dissertation to be accepted, a commission is needed, and reviewers and greater, etc. It takes a little more stairs and a lot of people in the area of higher education who guarantee by their signature that it is scientifically justified, justified and that it represents a scientific contribution. We have experienced many problems because they have either not been solved or what has been solved has not been applied in practice. I understand your concern, but I wanted to tell you that really is the majority position in this debate, maltene unanimity existed in that the role of the state should be strengthened in different ways, in order to make the system better in every way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41936	The word has been sent by Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41937	I will use the time of the parliamentary group because, as an illustration, I will use the Ministry's position in relation to the amendment I wrote on behalf of the parliamentary group, as an illustration of a very rigid one, not to use one more understandable Serbian word, a stubborn relationship of the ministry towards amendments submitted by opposition parliamentary groups. For example, no one slows the state's higher participation and law, the autonomy of the university to contribute to the quality of studies, to make dissertations, studies, etc. But if we have submitted an amendment which is in the spirit of the legislative proposal and which binds a large number of cases, the magistrates who have passed the exams but have not acquired the calling of the magistrate and leave them in the empty space that they cannot or do not know how they will end the doctoral dissertation for which the deadline is given and you say in your opinion – our member is precise enough and should not be clarified by your amendment, you are letting me know that you have not entered into the request that we have made with the amendment. So the request is this: a member of 123 says someone can, according to which program, finish master's studies. You do not dispute the right of those who wrote it to end within the deadline of 2014. So attitude 3 - it's undeniable. In Article 128 of the current law, you only extend the deadline – so that by the end of school 2015 and 2016, doctoral studies can be completed. But you overlook the fact that you only give the right to those who have acquired the academic name of the Master of Science until the entry into force of this law. What about the people who passed the exams, took the thesis, didn't defend it, so they didn't get the call? Whether, Mr. Minister, by intervention with a timely opposition MP, who wants to eliminate tomorrow's parliamentary issue, through the Ministry, the discretionary right to give an opinion or not, but to settle it at the moment when the law is passed, where we have just said, in accordance with Article 123 of yours, we are not making up anything new, we are not extending the deadline, we are just making the necessary connection between the people who are in the Master's Studies and are supposed to finish them, as you say, but that they do not remain magistrates who, as a new rule now, will have to enroll doctoral studies. Then why do they need the master's degree according to the old rule? I don't argue, you can transfer excellently, your intelligence allows you to talk about Article 28, I'm talking about principle. So very precisely and in detail because of the problems that have been observed, there are no subsequent opinions, no interpretations of any kind, but that you who are your own, and we who see it at this point, solve the problem in terms of quality and the disabling of side-by-side pressures to solve these cases differently. I was convinced that you were thinking the same thing and that you would not be harmed by the intervention of an MP who said that what you really wanted is just more precise if we were to call on the position of 3 of your Article 123 and say nicely that it refers to Article 128. Serbian means – whoever enrolled master's studies according to the old programme has passed the exams, but has not obtained the call, can enter doctoral studies according to the program and end within the time limit that you have predicted. So we're not changing anything conceptual to you, we're just specifying this relationship between these two titles. Why am I talking about this case? Because many people with integrity, with business results, people who contribute to reforms, such as or such, may have made it impossible to do what's called getting a call, and to register any school, the institute needs to have people with a degree and a calling. I'm not talking about those who rent their diplomas as pharmacists, like those in investment funds, etc. I speak for people who really have acquired knowledge, not shortcuts, not an emergency procedure. Why should they be the victims of disabling the calling, although they have indeed proved themselves to be professional people, and such acts will be damaged. I deliberately intervened before this member came to the debate to give you a chance, asked you on behalf of the profession and such, to reconsider the possibility of adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41938	Five minutes and 45 seconds used by the MP's group. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41939	My colleague Tabakovic, I don't think we understand each other, because it seems to me that Article 123 of Item 1, 2, 3 and 4 and Article 128 absolutely gives opportunity to all those who have begun to finish. If you read carefully, please see Article 123. Students enrolled in master studies until the entry into force of this law shall have the right to complete their studies by the end of 2013/2014 at the latest. A year. Students enrolled in doctoral studies, i.e. candidates who have applied, who have already done so, shall have the right to finish by the end of 2014/2015. A year. Article 128: Persons who have been subject to the rules applicable until the date of entry into force of this law acquired an academic name by the magistrate may obtain an academic name by 2015/2016. A year. What's the problem? (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the place: What time do they get the call? No, who got the call. You have three categories, which are in the process and which have that calling.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41940	The word has been sent by Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41941	If the minister has stated what he has said, I pray that from the stenogram for this opportunity and future problems we draw out a statement from the minister that it is not questionable: those who have entered, and have not yet obtained the call that they have the right to complete master's studies under the old programme and to continue doctoral studies in accordance with Article 128 and deadlines. Can the stenographic note be tomorrow proof when someone on the counter or anywhere says no, you have no right to do so because at the moment of this law you have not yet obtained a calling? I'm talking about people who haven't called yet. Will it be interpreted as Article 123(3) that they passed the exams, took the thesis, but did not defend it? So, they don't have a master's degree at this point, they don't have a master's call. You understand? They don't have a calling. Does the moment of entry into force of this law leave them the time limit for that calling to take place within the time limit provided for? That's what I asked for with the amendment, I made it clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41942	A minute and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Zoran Shami and Nikola Lazic submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41943	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, Mr. Minister, of course, everything will go to the expense of an authorised representative for over two minutes. Before I explain the amendment that we have submitted, which is actually similar to this amendment that we have been discussing for quite some time now, I would like to say that the DSS Group has submitted to this law 18 amendments exclusively with the motive to fix this law. I will remind you that I have said and remain in this belief that, by the logic of things, this is one non-political law and that, in fact, there is only one member of the political nature in the whole amendment and addition of the law. We'll talk about it when it's time. Everything else is proposed to fix the existing law. On the other hand, all MPs of all parliamentary groups think that, regardless of the various political orientations, I do not see that they can have any significant different interests, as I say it is an area that is undoubtedly of general importance and therefore not political nature. Unfortunately, of those 18 amendments, the government has accepted only three so far, I hope there will be opportunities through this debate for the minister to accept some more of our amendments. Of course, on the basis of how these constructive proposals of ours pass, we will eventually form our own attitude toward the law itself. When it comes to the amendment to Article 2, to remind me, we have submitted two amendments to that article, later the second amendment will be explained by Mr. Pejcic. What Mr. Lazic and I have put up with is the composition of the National Educational Council. I will remind my fellow Members that under the current law, the National Educational Council has 16 members. Ten elects by the Assembly, ten proposed by the University Community, two come from higher schools, and four are proposed by the government. Now there's been a change. It won't be 16 but 21 under the bill. The universities propose 12, two higher schools and even seven governments. So since 4:16, so 25% of the government's representatives, we now have a ratio of 7:21, so a third of the government's representatives. I would agree in one piece with Mr. Minister, when he says the state must be interested in education, in this case for higher education. Of course, every serious state has to take care of what high education looks like in it. This is not at all controversial, but the state's influence on the National Educational Council is not seen. There are other options, primarily through the Ministry of Education and then through the overall work of the Government, and how it has an impact on what our education will look like, in this case, higher education. The National Educational Council is one, essentially, advisory body. You said 14 are representatives who propose higher education institutions, and seven only government, believe me, knowing university professors, they will race to make decisions that will please the current government, no matter what the government looks like. So I don't think it's a big deal, I think it's a matter of principle just not being too much in that advice of people who are directly proposed by the government. We have proposed an amendment not to be 21 but to be 19, to honor instead of 10 being 12, proposed by the university, to remain two from high schools, and yet the government is satisfied with five representatives. That's about five out of 19 again, that's a little over a quarter. You didn't accept that amendment, I don't think this is some excessive political issue, I don't think it's a political question, I think it's more a matter, let's say it's a good taste. I can't accuse Mr. Obradovic of getting too involved with the government in higher education matters. It certainly loops much less than the Minister of Science did when it comes to laws on how science is organised. That's where the state took much more, much, much more than it should, and here I can't say. It's just, you know, I don't think it's a good idea for even a third to be from the government. Not because they're going to impose something now, it just doesn't make a good impression. In addition to everything else, remember that the National Educational Council is elected on a longer term than one government, which you automatically leave to the next government at some point, and it changes all that. It's unnecessary. I personally think it's unnecessary. I spent over 30 years of active work at the university. I know how it works. The National Educational Council, read what it says, which are his powers and obligations, has no need to propose even a third of the government. There, you did not accept this amendment. He is somewhere similar to the amendment proposed by counterparts from "Forward Serbia", however, they demand that it remain as it is. We allow it to be a little more, but there's no need to be even a third of the government. Well, that's definitely our attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41944	Five minutes and 45 seconds of the mandated representative of the authorised group. The word was asked for by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41945	Dear Mr. Shami, Professor Shami, since you are teaching at the university, two more arguments in favour that this envisaged a solution that we have proposed to the National Assembly is good, is that, in the meantime, the adoption of a law on the selection of members of the National Educational Council has increased the number of state colleges and it has been noted that no specific scientific fields have been represented. Secondly, no one has seriously questioned the increase in the number of members of the National Educational Council, as everyone is aware that it is seven versus fourteen, I say, twice as small and cannot in any way question the content of the work of the National Council for Higher Education. The content of the work of the Higher Education Council and how it has to do with the state and it is not, as I would say, harmlessly as it sometimes tries to introduce itself. On the contrary, if you look at this, I will quote to you the competences of the National Council of Article 11 of this Law – the National Council, among other things, monitors the development of higher education, its compliance with European international standards, proposes to the Ministry of Higher Education Policy, gives an opinion on the policy of enrolment in higher education institutions, gives an opinion in the process of adopting regulations governing issues related to higher education, proposes the governments of normative and working standards of higher education institutions, as well as material means for achieving them in the prepared opinion of the university conferences and conferences of vocational studies, determines scientific and artistic standards, professional fields of Article 27 establish standards for the self-value of quality, determines standards and procedures for initial accreditation and a number of others. So there's a very large number of responsibilities where the state's opinion is objective and important. Why should it not be defined in this previous period? Why would the National Council give one opinion, and then the Ministry says we don't have any money or anything else or you don't fit in with this or that? They also have such great responsibilities. The structure of these relationships in higher education is that the Council and how important the body is in higher education. The second thing, as I recall, the National Council was elected five years ago. He was chosen by a completely different rendition from today. Meanwhile, there are two governments, this is the third one, and they haven't been changed. They were not changed and they worked completely autonomously, nor who changed the representatives of the state, nor questioned their work. As much as my memory serves, we chose the 2005 council and then it was the government 2007/08. the year, and now 2008/2010. For years, the council members were there and they worked. Why, for example, these future members of the government and this part of the government's council would be someone who would represent one political party. No, they'll be high-school people, just maybe they'll be from the economy, maybe they'll be from the institute, maybe they'll be from some other area that's not represented through this proposal, let me say, KONUSA or the High Schools of Professional Studies. There is no fear that seven versus 14 can in any way question or subdue the National Council to state interests. Wait, I guess we're all doing the same job and all of this should be in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and ultimately, and these representatives of 12 from KONUS, and they are working in certain institutions that the state is funding or co-operating with or directly involved with. So I don't see any reason, and I think our solution is optimal. I must say, no one questioned that solution. Of course, it doesn't have to be an absolute argument for you, but just so you know that fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41946	Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic, together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Ministers, the Government's representatives, you heard earlier in the presentation of my distinguished colleague, Zoran Shami, that we have proposed 18 amendments to the amendments and additions to this law, that only three amendments have been adopted. These are amendments that are in the form of technical nature. You didn't accept the essential amendments. One of the amendments to Article 2 is essential. What did we want with this amendment to achieve, our intention, our intensity? In fact, we wanted to offer the Assembly that the Assembly chooses members of the National Educational Council, not just to vote for them. This proposal is exactly the way we're going to just vote, where the Conference gives us 14 candidates and we vote for them. We have suggested that they offer us 50% more, so that this Assembly can choose the right candidates. It may happen, Mr. Minister, that in the ruling majority you have no agreement on the name of any candidate, you have no agreement. We had a chance here when we chose a member of the RRA, Mrs. Sushu, to choose her twice, because she had no consensus in the ruling majority. In order for this not to happen in the future, we suggest that 50% more candidates be on the list, so that this Assembly chooses members of the candidates, because there is a possibility that this National Council is not working at full capacity and making some decisions at full capacity. That was our intention. Mr. Minister, we hope that you will change your mind and accept this amendment because the amendment has been exceeded and established and I hope that you will also consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41948	Anyone else want a word? Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41949	I think that fear is without reason, but again I say one thing, colleague Jon Magda has submitted one amendment that erases the word "final proposal of candidates", so there will be more candidates than the number the Assembly should choose. It will be, I hope. Wait, KONUS is going to propose, so if he doesn't propose, then the Assembly is in charge of deciding what to do with that proposal, because as long as memory serves, please, feel free to deny me, when we voted in favour of the previous assembly, because I voted in favour of this assembly, it seems to me that the number of candidates elected has been delivered and only one candidate has not passed, so the second one has been elected to his post. So that's when we had the situation. KONUS has now proposed, they have identified a number of candidates, however, obviously now they will have to increase the number, they will have to if for no other reason, because of what they now have to do two more, and we will see in particular that the Assembly will react to the proposed candidates. We have accepted the amendment of colleague Jonah Magda where the word "final" is deleted and thus gives the opportunity to propose more candidates than the number to be elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41950	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41951	Mr. Minister, unfortunately, things aren't exactly like that. The election process of the Council members was launched, of course, now it will have to be adapted to this law, and sent to us from the university by ten, we asked them, since we couldn't ask them to do anything but ask them, so that the Assembly could still choose between some candidates to, if they could, send a few more. They, of course, didn't send a few more, and in writing I say they'll never send us more if you don't make a commitment. They like to choose themselves. In that case, it is absolutely meaningless for you to get one list here in front of the Assembly, you will be guaranteed not to have everyone elected, then you will repeat that procedure, in the meantime the Council will not work at full capacity, etc. We simply suggested - if 12 proposes the University, send us a list of 18 names. If two suggest more schools, they can send us a list of three names. If you want, it's all the same to me as the opposition party at this point. But I just think that if we want the Parliament to pick something out, then let's make it a larger number of candidates. Otherwise, the congregation doesn't have to choose anything. The government shall deliver theirs, these shall deliver theirs, and whom shall the congregation represent? So our proposal is very reasonable. Don't think the universities will volunteer to send more. They won't send any more, I guarantee you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41952	Two minutes and 10 seconds have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41953	Just wait, colleague Shami, to clarify one thing: you and I voted for this proposal of the National Council in 2005, you and I. (Zoran Shami, from the place: I didn't. All right, MP groups to which we belong. Right? It was a law that determined the obligation of more candidates than it should have been. Article 10 of the existing law, paragraph 5 or 6 – The Conference of the University, or the Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies, gives a final proposal, now we delete the word "final", taking into account the number of students and teachers of the University, of up to 15, or up to three candidates of the National Assembly within 30 days. I don't think we touched this as a provision. When we got the proposal of the candidate who was elected, right, with the exception of one man who wasn't elected, we didn't even change the law and we chose the same number. Now the law has been changed, there will be no final number, in fact, we will see, and we have accepted the amendment of colleague Jonah Magda to create conditions for a larger number of candidates, and we will address the University Conference with a request that the law be amended in the meantime and that their obligation to deliver a larger number of candidates. (Zoran Shami, from the place: There is no obligation in law, there is a thing. It is now, after accepting this amendment, that's what I'm talking about. All right, we'll see, after all, the Assembly will decide, and we'll see what it is. The number of members has been established and will be filled until complete. That's what we did last time, even though there wasn't this provision. We think that this amendment is correct, and that we now have conditions that we will have more candidates than the number chosen.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41954	The People's Messenger Zoran Shami has a word, so the People's Messenger Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41955	Mr. Minister, you have to understand, the law does not require the motion to suggest more. It doesn't say, of course, that it's forbidden, but they won't suggest it anymore. I don't know why it bothers you that they suggest more and then the Assembly has some choice. If the decision is that the Assembly chooses the National Educational Council, then it should have something to choose from. And nothing like this, you're going to get 12 candidates, the Assembly is going to choose, at best, all 12, maybe not to choose all 12, but to choose for example. 10, then you won't have two candidates for another six months, how long this entire procedure takes. I don't know why it bothers you and the Ministry to put in a clause that the proposer has to propose more candidates than is elected. We don't insist on 50%, you put more, we thought it was good to be 50% more. So 12 chooses to give us a list of 18 names. If two are chosen, to offer us a list of three names, that's our amendment. I don't see why you're against it. What you're saying, they can simply propose more, but they won't. We asked them as a committee, referring to the second rule relating to that high school National Council, there they have an obligation to be more and we have only kindly asked them to send more, and they have kindly kept silent and sent exactly what it takes. That's how it's always gonna be, I'm giving it to you in writing, that's the fourth time I've told you. So, please accept this amendment, it is in favour of the Assembly's dignity, if the Assembly should already choose the National Educational Council. If not, let them choose for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41956	Two minutes and 15 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Word has Minister Zarko Obradovic [[Zoran Shami, from the place: This was a replica, I apologize.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41957	I have to say, to be honest, I'm in doubt right now. Is this, Professor, a later confession that the law is not good, this one from 2005, or that the Academic Community did not want to hear applications in 2005 to give more candidates than the number to be elected. We do not have that skepticism, we expect that there will be more candidates and that by accepting this amendment and this solution that exists in this position 6, there will be more candidates. If it's not okay, I'm going to go public and say that the academic community has not answered our calls and the provisions of the laws that speak of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41958	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41959	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the Amendment and the addition of the Law on Higher Education. Namely, my amendment refers to the number of members of the National Council of Higher Education. Although, I've seen it a little differently than my colleagues in the DSS did. I will try at the shortest to present here to Mr. Obradovic, Minister of Education. This is one of the members where a slightly larger intervention was made and this number of members of the National Council has increased from 16 to 21. If we look at both the basic text of the Law and the amendments and the additions of this law, we have seen that the structure of this council consists of three associations and that this increase of five members of the Council refers only to two associations, while one association, i.e. an association that represents professors of vocational studies, has not been given the opportunity to increase the number of members of the National Council from their ranks. I think there's been some injustice against the professors of professional studies. We know that in the state of Serbia there are over 70, maybe even 90 higher vocational schools, and if we perform some statistics, we might come up with data that today there are the most students in Serbia who encourage these vocational schools and have the most lecturers, and in the structure of the Educational National Council, they are at least represented - two out of 21. They were represented symbolically with only two members in the previous law solution, and who put it in percentages will see that their representation is now even lower as a percentage. I'm particularly surprised by this argument here, which is why this amendment has not been accepted. It is said that the structure of the National Council is fully established by the draft law. I was just saying with my amendment that it wasn't fully done, and that's why I asked for it, but I can see the minister didn't accept it. In the principle debate, I commended the minister. I said I thought he was a serious man. He told all of us here that he would accept a large number of amendments, that it was nothing controversial, and knowing that about a year ago, when we discussed the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System in this room, I can say that Mr Obradovic then accepted a large number of amendments and the SRS and other opposition parties, but now I didn't notice that he accepted any opposition amendments. Mr. Obradovic, I really resent to you this time that you have not accepted any amendments to the opposition parties because I simply consider it to be of this many amendments, there are some 63 which have not been accepted, that at least a few of them deserve to be accepted, it is not important from which opposition party, and I even think that this amendment, which I am now explaining, is one of those that should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41960	Two minutes of time used by the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? If not, the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Since we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee, this amendment will be declared by the Assembly. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41961	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not too elegant to talk about an amendment that has been accepted. I'd take this opportunity by the time I break to say a few sentences about our submitted amendments, because not everyone's accepted, so I won't take your word for it later. I'd point out a few of the problems that exist in higher education. I hope the minister will answer those questions as well. As for the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, we believe that the proposed solutions are good and we will certainly vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. We think, however, that a few more amendments had to be made, but the minister presented at the National Assembly Education Committee session that the ministry proposed only those changes that were necessary to increase the efficiency of the higher education system. I think there was a need to regulate the concept, or institute of visiting professors. Unfortunately, it's not in these proposed changes. If the mobility of students and professors is aimed at higher education in RS, then we should certainly regulate the status of guest professors in the near future. As for the amendments submitted, SVM MPs submitted eight amendments. Of those eight, five amendments were accepted. I hope the others will be accepted in the voting day. Of those amendments that have been accepted, I believe that the most important one that will unequivocally regulate, after 20 or 25 years, is the right of students of national minorities to take exams in their native languages, in their native language, in case there is a teacher, or teacher who understands a particular language, and if the course has been organised in that language. That's an excellent solution. It was in the RS years before, but it was not regulated in an unequivocal manner. Many things depended on certain colleges, certain deans, including professors. Now it is unequivocally regulated and it is certainly commendable, and it improves the higher education system in Serbia. A similar solution is related to the right of members of national minorities to defend final work, master's work and specialist work in the native language. It wasn't so regulated either. This was the failure of the legislator in 2005, as it is illogical for me that this possibility has been given for doctoral dissertation since 2005, and is not given for master's work, final work and specialist work. That's what we do together now. The other three amendments concern the harmonisation of the solutions from the proposed amendments and the addition of the Higher Education Act with the existing solutions of the Law on National Councils, and it is certainly good that there will be no cohesion. We managed to solve this, as we did a few months ago, when the Law on Student and Student Standard was on the agenda, and will certainly lead to a more effective higher education situation when there is no conflict between various positive-legal solutions in the legal order of the RS. I also have to say that these changes were proposed in 2005 by the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, but in 2005, these proposals were not taken into account, but now five years later they will become an integral part of the legal order. The three amendments that have not been accepted relate to certain solutions related to the accreditation process for the powers of the AP Vojvodina, but some of these amendments have already been supported by the Committee on the Education of the National Assembly and we hope that they will be accepted. As for the problem of higher education, I'm only talking about two problems. We know there's a lot, a lot more, and I don't think it's exclusively about the education of members of minority communities. The first problem concerns two subjects, Mr. Minister. This solution would be good for members of the majority people. We know very well that the rationalisation of the educational system in Serbia is under way. We know how many departments we'll be forced to close for the next few years. We also know there's a lack of staff from the professor. We think it would be a good solution, I say once again for minority communities and for the Serb people, to introduce into our system the possibility of training two-bit teachers, two-bit teachers. It just doesn't work today. We didn't want to submit an amendment to this because it's not legal matter, but it should be regulated by sublaws, regulations, ministry rules, because it would be one solution to the problems that arise from imminent rationalisation. The second problem is about nostrification, or recognition of foreign higher education documents, to use the official term referred to in Article 104. The law on higher education. There are, of course, points where this problem is related to two subjects, and I'll tell you why. If someone acquires a professor of mathematics and physics, for example, in Hungary, for example, I give you an example from life, then that diploma, or these diplomas, cannot be nostificated, can be nostificated either by a diploma of mathematics or a degree of physics, because in the original degree writes a professor of mathematics – physics, so the person gets an explanation that there is no mathematics – physics, but only mathematics or physics. This is a serious problem of technical nature that should be solved, because if there is someone calling professors of both cases, then it should certainly be solved in a way that this person can be employed both as a professor of physics and as a professor of mathematics. In the end, in terms of nostrification, another problem that is not the same matter and should not be the matter of regulation, but of regulations and other sublegal acts. There are names in the surrounding countries, and there are colleges that are still missing from us. I'm sure it'll be in due time. I'll give you another example of life. A young gentleman of my age spoke to me a few weeks ago and told me that he had graduated from college, it was a university of eight semesters for four school years and had acquired the name of an organizer in the adult education process. We have no law on adult education either, but I do know that this draft is being prepared at the Ministry and I hope that it will be accepted by the end of the year and adopted here in the National Assembly, but because there is no law there can be no such reference in our colleges either, but it will be in a few years. If the law on adult education is passed by the end of this year, there will be a need for experts who can organise the course at the initial stage, who have professional qualities and calling for it. This gentleman in question told me that he was at three state colleges and two private colleges and that he was told that we simply couldn't nostifise it. Of course, I know that universities, or colleges, have autonomy. It's a civilization achievement and it's not controversial. But we think that it should also be good for the Ministry to make a recommendation to, say, colleges to interpret these solutions a little more extensively, to allow people who want to return to Serbia after completing education abroad to do so, because right now in these cases, I could give a few more examples, it's not possible. In the end, one piece of information. In the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, we established a fund for nostrification, 391 people received money from that National Council of Hungarians fund totaling 13 million dinars and thus helped almost 400 or more of 390 students, i.e. young people succeeded in nostrificing diplomas, but we cannot help when they do not want to, or are unable to nostrify because of the various problems of that degree. That is why we think that the ministry should play a role and influence that those people who finish studying abroad can return to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41962	Ten minutes have been spent by an authorised representative. This concludes the morning session and continues the session at 15.05 hours, with discussion in detail on the amendment to Article 2, which was submitted as an amendment to the correction by MP Jon Magda. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon debate in detail on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Jon Magda. The Government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment with the correction, and since the Legislative Committee has not spoken out, this amendment, as well as others, will be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National Messenger Milet Pocurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41964	It might be okay if we waited for the minister before we started work, since what we're about to talk about is really important because it concerns primarily his opinion, regardless of the government's opinion. With the amendment we wanted to change the minister's intention, as a legislator of amending the law, to introduce a new institution in the process of obtaining a work permit, it is called an initial licence. That – the initial license, somehow sounds like some kind of prenup, like something that's a temporary permit, something that wasn't particularly necessary. Because, while the government's reasoning states that as the motionor intended to do, he solves certain problems that were encountered in the process of this two or three years of application of the law in the procedure, and then when we listen to the minister on the board, so I like to say that when we are alone participants in the accreditation process, we see that this is actually about or retaining documentation from the accreditation committee, untimely response, something that is considered an administrative emergency or something like that. Why do we still think this institute wasn't necessary? It kind of looks like a cosmetic change, but I doubt it's a cosmetic change, but there must be something behind it. We've heard that over 2,000 higher education institutions have already been accredited. There are some who have not obtained the conditions for accreditation. They repeat themselves in this process, and now, with this mechanism, I am likely to be allowed to say, more superficial accreditation in the process of giving an opinion, or earlier, and now a report is being made. This game of words that can't convince anyone seriously that it's a fundamental change, but that there's probably a chance behind that that someone else can be accredited by simpler methods, a little faster, even though it's impossible, we'll see from our later amendment and how the proposer suggested the procedure. It does not deviate more significantly than what was previously done under the law, which we have already estimated is not a law that we agree on. I can say again that I belong to a group of people who think the law wasn't right. Could such a legal solution have found a common clue with the Bologna Declaration, that in some way the intention of the European academic space was incorporated, that we become its component and vice versa, it is an integral part of ours, in some segments of education and scientific research, that nobody slows down, the integration of this species is the most painless, at least politicised, is least problematic. But the way we do speak indirectly and that the Ministry, or the Minister, should not be personalised, I speak generally about the concept of the Government, not the Minister, but it would be easier to say that the minister, it seems to me, from the department professor at the State College, might understand some of the objections better, given these academic freedoms, those rights that colleges and universities now have. They are really so big that sometimes we wonder – how normal it is to have the state so decentralised that, for example, it sets up a head of high school, a high school, gives an opinion on the proposal that has arrived, which can accept, not accept, to approve, to not approve, and when the dean is set up, then nothing is asked, and the dean funerals everything. The dean decides to make tuition 3,000 euros, together over the council. Bigger picks him. It's an open circle of interest. Now I don't see, when the minister is talking about it, that centralization in something is necessary, come on, not centralised, but the anti-democracy principle or the principle of control in something necessary, when it comes to education. I believe that it is necessary in that assessment, they have now introduced it into the law, the amount of tuition, but many other problems arise, which speak of the law not being right, so the minister himself suggests, after the adoption of the strategy, for the past two years, there will be another, third revision of the same law. If you've been revising the law three times in six years, then you should say it's no good in this law this provision. We can guess what she'll finally mean. Another number of colleges that have not received accreditation will get it, however, not in the form of accreditation, but some initial accreditation. Instead of saying it's a work permit, because those colleges are essentially getting a license to work. They will work for a year under the stress that they may be rejected in accreditation, but perhaps, and under no clear intention, to give them a chance to supplement what they did not have in the process when they were given permission. So, I conclude, that maybe that part of the accreditation business in granting a temporary license will be more superficial. Why would anyone look at the same material in a year? Only one who hasn't worked on the accreditation process doesn't know how large a bunch of material, how big a procedure it is, and for the college that's preparing it, the side that's on the other side, which is the applicant, and for the side of the one who needs to objectively look at it. That's why we didn't think we should have insisted on that, and to bring it into line with our position until the end, in some of the members, we submitted such changes that the current shortcomings, which the minister said they had registered, could change, as far as deadlines are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41965	Three minutes and 30 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. I'm sorry Mr. Obradovic isn't in the O.R. right now. I hope that during the presentation, I have other amendments to get there. Namely, this amendment applies to Article 3, so that after the word "work permit" the words "high school institutions" are added. Now perhaps this amendment can act as some cosmetic change, some cosmetic supplement, an amendment for amendments. But it wasn't my intention, it was my intention that was completely different. The essence of my amendment is to define in a better and more precise way exactly who the initial accreditation applies to, because this complete member refers to initial accreditation. My esteemed colleague Krasic said something in the morning about Bologna and, in this time I have for this amendment, to say a few words about it. As a rule, when it comes to what's coming from the West, some innovations, we always accept what's worst in this novelty. Looking at what's going on with Bologna, that rule applies here. First we accept what's worst, and some good things haven't come back to life yet. Now, these days, this year, the first Bologna five-year-old is finished and when the results of that five-year-old, or the application of Bologna, are summed up, it can be freely determined that they are defeating, that they did not serve that purpose and that purpose, which is why Bologna was introduced. Thus, in September 2008, it was said that students were at 12% to 28%, depending on colleges, universities, higher schools, etc. Let us remember that the main argument for the introduction of Bologna was precisely to increase study efficiency. To finish my presentation, it's obvious that those in charge of applying Bologna failed in this and that they didn't understand in the best way what they were supposed to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41967	Used one minute of Parliament time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4, a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is from Ambassador Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, this amendment to Article 4, is directly attached to the amendment that we had and which my colleague Poscurica has just explained, which is actually about introducing a new term, which is initial accreditation. For the sake of the public, let me just say that this member refers to the competence and work of the Commission, and earlier in that position, paragraphs 1 and 1) and the competences were to propose to the National Council standards for issuing work permits. It is now erasing this "for issuing a work permit" and inserting "The Commission proposes to the National Council standards for initial accreditation" in point 1), and in point 9) instead of giving an opinion, it is again making up a report on initial accreditation. We believe that this is too much of an administration to issue a permit, because if all the legal conditions defined in other members of the law are met to obtain accreditation, essentially after that initial accreditation is obtained, and after a year, a work permit is to be granted. Practically, there is a accumulation of administration of all the elements necessary to decide. Probably, if any institution is to be accredited, it will surely immediately, in accordance with the law, normatives and all that the law obliges, meet those conditions. Why give initial accreditation, then after a year again enters the debate, especially since there is a clear existence in other members that each fifth, and, if necessary, carries out an extraordinary control of the work and quality of the institution. I repeat, we have also suggested that the views relating to the introduction of this scheduled initial accreditation be deleted, because we believe that it extends the administration and extends the problem of accreditation of a higher education institution that can immediately, in the light of all relevant parameters necessary for work and accreditation, be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41969	Used 30 seconds of MP time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. This amendment of mine applies to Article 4 of the amendment and the addition of this law. This amendment essentially sends the same message as my previous amendment that I just explained, which is a more precise definition. I have a few more sentences to say about Bologna. You know the SRS is critical when it comes to the application of Bologna and the Bologna process. Bologna has failed in no serious country. All the serious countries have left this process. We've been holding on to these Bolognas for five years and, indeed, when they're there, after a certain period of time, the results, I think Bologna will have to leave eventually, but it'll do us more harm than it used to in the communist time of Shuvar's reform to education. Also, all prestigious colleges, all prestigious universities today in the world don't work on Bologna. It seems to me that some of Bologna have done one commercial job, better say business. The same has been done when it comes to reforming both secondary and primary education. Today we have an expansion of various strategies, various projects, which are implemented and implemented in different ways. The greatest benefits of this, I think, are those who organise seminars, various coursers and various educators, educators. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41971	Anyone else want a word? If not, National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41972	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Article 4 of the amendment and supplement is otherwise referred to as Article 14 of the existing law. Article 14 speaks of the competences and work of the accreditation committee. In particular, this amendment refers to point 9) of the proposal, where the proposal says that – the accreditation committee makes up a report on initial accreditation, in the process of issuing a work permit. I'm going to talk later about the introduction of this new institute called initial accreditation in this bill. Now I'm going to say that this amendment instead of "the commission makes a report" we suggest that "the commission makes up, or delivers an opinion to the Ministry". Why? Because it's the accreditation committee that already has five years of experience when it comes to accreditation of higher education institutions. There's a commission called in and she's the one who's actually assessing whether a facility meets all the requirements and standards. So far, there has been no stage called initial accreditation, and now you've introduced this phase. Why not the report? Because the report, mostly, is some analysis, and you don't have to or don't give a court. So this committee here, by giving the report, is not actually going to say its opinion whether or not the higher education institution has met those conditions in the first place. So it makes up a report or an analysis of the situation and delivers it to the Ministry, and when the commission is obliged to make both an analysis and a report and deliver its opinion, then it is the opinion of two elements in the process, and the accreditation committee, which is most called in this process and procedure, and plus the ministry. So, if you don't commit the accreditation committee to give its opinion rather than to submit some neutral report, then that commission doesn't do its job, you don't have the opinion of the commission, and then the Ministry, which isn't so professional in this job or some sector in the ministry, then it's called on to give that permission or to allow initial accreditation. So, we think that we need a commission that is most invited to deliver an opinion, not a neutral report. That's one thing. Otherwise, as for the introduction of this new institute that you have called here initial accreditation, which lasts a year, under the bill, too, I have to express my suspicion that it's not good because this looks like it's going to look like experiments in those institutions that want to get permission to work. I guess in practice so far, it's not good that you don't have that transition period. To remind you all, there was this transition period. If so far, for example, the institution has not met the standards or the study programme, then the commission has addressed the establishment that all things must be fixed, which lacks to remove, and then to continue the process, but it has rested, there was no teaching because the institution was not accredited and had no work permit. This will allow the higher education institution to start working, regardless of some shortcomings that need to be addressed in a year. This will increase the pressure on both the Commission and the Ministry and the institution themselves, and it will not be easy within a year to refuse permission to work on an institution if it already has at least 100 students. So this introduction of initial accreditation, which is a sign of a higher education institution that, despite not meeting the conditions and standards, it can start working, is not good. This could be called an experiment. Someone here said it was a premarital trial, so I don't think this is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41973	Two minutes and 50 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? The minister wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41974	With all due respect, I've come to an end, and I apologize for this delay. I heard a colleague, Banovic, speaking about initial accreditation and experimentation. I need the public to know what's happened so far, let them judge whether this is an experiment or a better solution than it was. So far, the Higher Education Act has predicted that when the Accreditation Commission receives all the documentation related to the procedure for establishing a higher education institution, it gives an opinion. On the basis of this opinion, the minister issued a work permit and we had a situation where there were opinions which contained a set of opinions for registration at the Court of Commerce, although the Law does not know such a thing. I received an interpretation from the Accreditation Commission that some people who received an opinion, later and a permit, no matter who signed it from the ministers, published in the media that they had an accreditation permit, which they did not, so that they received or did not receive it. Another change we've seen -- there were no deadlines. The documentation could have been submitted by anyone, or anyone who wanted to establish a higher education facility, to give a bank guarantee and that the thing was standing. Why? Because it's standing. They couldn't get a response from the Commission why they didn't solve the case, negatively or positively, we're not talking about it at all. Then they complained to the Ministry. We addressed the National Council for Higher Education as a second-degree body that formed that commission, with a request to see from its working body which formed what caused one such condition. Opinion can be positive or negative, it should have answered whether this higher education institution can be subject to accreditation. Whether it has the space provided, whether it has the appropriate number of teaching staff in all the titles, whether the appropriate study programme is the way it is. We were at the Ministry checking the accuracy of the allegations made in that opinion. We sent an educational inspection and got a bank guarantee. Just starting from some of the negative phenomena that we had in the accreditation process, the opinion of the Working Group in which people who were also in the Accreditation Commission participated was that it was necessary to do this in a few steps, in order to clearly know the rules of play and behaviour. The Ministry receives documentation, assesses the technical side of the entire procedure on the establishment of a higher education institution, submits to the Commission, the Commission gives the authorisation of initial accreditation, registration is carried out, students are enrolled, with an appropriate banking guarantee, which is now, I see, one amendment to the Education Committee and increased, which says that the safety of students is higher, and with the start of the school year starting the application of the programme. From that point on, at least within a year, the application must be submitted. He can do it before, and the Ministry can look for it, and the National Council can look for it. It must be entered into the accreditation process. It is then that what the Commission has already verified as true, because it is one process. You can get your credentials license and something happens tomorrow with a high school facility. That's why there are guarantees. That is why appropriate conditions are prescribed. By the people who worked at the Accreditation Commission, who were in the Working Group, this line of steps was estimated to be more logical and to give better control of the entire process of establishing a higher education institution. Is that so or isn't it? Of course, no law is ideal, it will show practice, but this solution has been made based on some of the things that have proved to be not good enough so far. We'll see because there will be appropriate deadlines now. Some conditions are being strengthened, and the Commission and the National Council will resolve, and to be honest, I hope that we will bring another one, and we, as the Ministry, will forget to say that, we have received more administrative jurisdiction, powers, because it was one of the suggestions in the process of discussing this law, and the provisions are also in line with the provisions of this law on violations, the height of the penalty. I'm saying this because now we have, according to us at the Ministry, and also by the people who worked in the Working Group, because we really haven't touched that part at all, the whole line of establishment of higher education institutions based on some empty walkways that have been so far. We think this process will be far more effective, more correct, more professional than it has ever been before, but I still have to say that despite these shortcomings, the accreditation commission has really done a fantastic job for the Republic of Serbia, because we finally have over 2,000 accredited programmes. You know exactly who's teaching where. You know exactly what every teacher in any calling has as their scientific biography. In one word, order has been made against some condition so far, and this is an opportunity to take a step forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41975	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Miletic Mihajlovic and Milisav Petronijevic together submitted an amendment adding a new Article 4a after article 4. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Since there is no report from the Legislative Committee, we will declare in the voting day as well as on the other amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41976	You see, that, I was saying, the minister was absent, one of the weaknesses we had in the system of this bill amending the law that we saw as a parliamentary group. We don't think it contributed to what the minister said, that some perceived weaknesses within two or three years, at least two years, since the previous amendment of the law were seen and now we're going to change them. As we will do for the next two years, of course, in the expectation of a strategy, which should be implemented under this law and somehow a legally dependent strategy, because without such a basic law, we cannot even create our strategy for higher education. What is unclear about this part? Why the previous solution was changed, where it was clearly found that a higher education facility required 70% of teachers in full-time working relationship from the total number of courses on the study programme. Now it turns into 70% of active hours, if I understand. We don't know exactly what that means. Maybe it could mean something else, that one of the same lecturers would cover several different areas. When they add up, since there really is some new trend in inventing new subjects in study programmes that suffer accreditation, that's what I was talking about in the principle debate, where there are universities of the same professions with different subjects, teaching content, different programs that contain in themselves, different plans. Is this going to mean that someone will be able to get enough personnel to get a license, or this initial or final accreditation or final definitively definitive, which is called only accreditation, we don't know that, but we think that this was one more rigorous criterion, where it really had to be provided by the number of subjects by the number of teachers. This amendment is already in place in some colleges, this now proposed amendment, proposed by the ministry. Some colleges are founded simply sometimes when a man wonders who the frame is drawn from, they get licenses, they start working, it's really small and vague. It's unclear, we'll see what's going to bring in the new rules on calling choices, what can be the scientific teaching base of one college, etc. We've kind of worked it out. That's why I stand by when I'm talking about thinking that this law, without a complex, is not good, that it's not well done, even if I can say it, because at a time when the law was passed and put out such attitudes. Some solutions to the perceived shortcomings will not fix and I think that this is one concession, the biggest concessions are made to the students, that we understand each other, whether we want to or not to support them, because they are not guilty, but we who have taught them differently, and by which we are rightly nostalgic, we have passed some other law, in their belief that they will be better both themselves and by objective criteria we see that they are not satisfied. Passion isn't the way it should be, it's harder for them to learn, it's harder for them to study, now we're giving in to them, we're winning the basic principles of law, point efficiency. At the very least, which we wouldn't now and the number of professors, and the way they'd be teaching, and 70% of the active classes. I asked some prodigals, some that I think are more lively involved, to explain a little to me what it means, to get their shoulders down, probably weren't in a public debate about the law, but now the minister will probably explain why this is a better solution than the one we had before and that we're changing now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41977	A minute and 35 seconds have taken advantage of the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41978	Here, I have with me a proposal working group to make this a solution. So, when it comes to this academic community, there's really a question that's part of the academic community. With the respect of all high-school colleagues, I have asked some of my colleagues as a question which part of the academic community is for which solution. Obviously, some things in the academic community cannot achieve consensus and should not insist on consent. This is the proposal of a working group that I have here in the original content and here it stands, and here I will read to you – the number of teachers required to obtain work permits is the number of teachers in full-time working relationship required to perform 70% of the active classes performed by teachers in the study program. Active teaching is teaching and training. So the assessment was that this was more accurate. The teacher's degree of burden will be met with respect to the content of the work that the teacher has within the higher education institution. Since there is probably one number of classes in basic studies, one in master studies, and one in doctoral studies, depending on the level of programs that are part of the institution. The people who suggested this, and we accepted it, thought that the solution simply better maintained the structure of the programmes that were accredited. We know exactly the active teaching, and that was their solution that we accepted. To be honest, the board heard different opinions. In our opinion, this solution is absolutely accurate. When you look at the structure of some programs, who worked on the accreditation process, it can very simply conclude what the smallest number of teachers needed to establish a higher education institution is. We had, for example, this 70 percent solution, if the number of cases is thirty and something, depending on the degree of teacher burden, that number of teachers can be in one higher school institution of ten, 11, 12, 13, depending on the burden again. This says 70% of active classes, lectures plus exercises, and only depending on the degree of burden, because they count for all levels. According to us, this solution absolutely makes sense and we are told in the working group, and we have accepted these arguments, and if we hadn't accepted them we wouldn't have proposed them to you, and we believe that they are precise and that they better explain the content of this law. There are additional mechanisms, it was on the board, you saw, it's about them. If the Assembly adopts certain amendments, that is, of course, the will of the Assembly. I considered it and now I believe, the will of the Assembly is supreme and it must be accepted. As Minister, I said that we shouldn't pull things back or suggest before the analysis. No offense, many of the things mentioned in the debate were rather the result of some individual views of teachers or certain groups, or individual colleges, rather than of the entire academic community. I'd prefer to run one analysis, so after four or five years and two more years when we went out to meet the students, draw a line and say, the system is good, this still needs to be changed, the system isn't good, this needs to be removed. Conversely, we apply the EU directive on certain titles and on certain professions and then take some measures. Why? Because as for some amendments, and here I want to say to my colleague Savić, there is nothing to do with accepting and refusing amendments to your parliamentary group, it is simply technical differences related to the content of the law. We've accepted three amendments to the DSS. DSS colleagues think they're technical. We don't think they're technical, but it's a good part of parliamentary life. Some of the solutions now proposed can also be found in the next law, as has been said of this DSS amendment two years ago. Then he was professor. Shami had a little bit of a different formula for him, so we discussed his application on the Committee. Why? Because some solutions lack an explanation, not on your part individually, but in the academic community. Why is the solution proposed that teachers should work up to 70 years. If you accept that, then you're sending a message that you don't need young frames. Do we need young people? Of course, but if we want to extend the working century to 70 years, then we have to say now we don't have the next three or five years enough teachers in certain titles that can continue the process to perform quality or we need a certain number to be able to apply an appropriate solution. We have nothing against any proposals, but they weren't sufficiently reasoned, not even by the task force itself. They would open up a new corps of questions to us, so we didn't even accept them. A simple concept, nothing according to the parliamentary group or to you individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41979	Anyone else want a word? The People's MP Milet Poscurica wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41980	A conditional replica, not to waste the time of a parliamentary group, just to be understood about this. When 70% of teachers who cover the courses on the study program, up to 70% of the subjects covered, it may or may not have to be a trap, but 70% of the class fund, it can absolutely be one professor who can run through exercises and different appointments and that you have a much smaller number of teachers per teaching class. It's one perfectly logical thing. You have some items that have a small fund of lessons, a small number of exercises, lectures, and just sometimes you don't have space in that area and they can't make that trend happen, it's absolutely impossible to get 70 percent. If you have a hiatus in some teaching disciplines, in some professors at many colleges, you increase a large gap, I don't know how much more legally regulated migration from colleges to colleges, as much as possible, where all people don't go and "tezgares" so that this fund can be realized, to have a physical presence in a working relationship, with full time, to cover 70% of the subjects, active classes that I thought were related to teaching, exercises, possibly seminars and all, it's much easier to achieve. Thank you. Time will likely show the correct attitude and simple and the working group the question from which the domain was, from which the predominantly dominant relationship and view things. It's all relative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41981	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Nenad Konstantinović and Nada Kolundžija. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zlata Đerić and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the 5th Amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41982	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 5, where we have requested that Article 5, paragraph 5, number 50% be changed by 60%. The amendment was not accepted. We felt that this would contribute to a better quality of the law, although at all, as regards the harmonisation of the Law on Higher Education, when it comes to this, we do not think that we have been deficient in quality solutions to higher education, because Serbia is not a pioneer country in the field of education. Fortunately for us, we as a people have a long impressive tradition of every kind of education, including higher education, and so far we have had one of the systems that has absolutely been in complete synergy with all European education systems. We do not think that the happiest thing to do is to get into this renewal or application of the Bologna Declaration, you will see that in a few years it will have to and how severe it will change, because it is also questionable in the EU itself. This is not why not all EU countries have coordinated and not all found it appropriate to apply it, and it is at all questionable what European standards are in education and what they are not. In any case, between what is the EU dictatorship and what we have here, I suppose it is looking for an ideal path and I suppose that the Ministry will, in any case, make this quality amendment colleagues who have been explained so far and those who will be further reasoned, accept those who will make this solution, this amendment and the addition of the law really useful for those generations that are coming, in any case to reduce the amount of formal education compared to essential education. We have submitted this amendment precisely because of this, wanting to contribute to this essential education, to be more, because we know that in terms of today's forces it has become very attractive to buy paper, not to buy knowledge, because we know which door opens that paper, and unfortunately which door cannot open knowledge. So our amendment had the task and the desire to contribute, if accepted, to this very quality of education, that is to contribute to the opportunity for knowledge to be more appreciated in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41983	Fifty seconds have been used by the MP's group. Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41984	My colleague Đeric, I agree with you when you say that we are not, as the people would say, the tail without roots in the area of higher education and that we should take care of our interests. But I think it is necessary to say that the phenomenon of this creation of a European space of higher education is precisely that it is not a directive character, so no one convinces others to accept what it does not suit. This is a rare law where it is not required to be applied, but every country is autonomously defined whether it will or won't apply. This was the case when we accepted Bologna in 2003, it implemented the 2005 law and began to apply in 2006. Now 47 countries are creating a European space for higher education. They say it's a phenomenon of higher education compared to some other areas that there's no directive character here, and everyone wants to apply it, and where everyone's got ways of not fully applying everything. I'm saying this in the context of your initial idea. We had a good higher education, we formed it. This is just about the standards that our children need to allow for greater passing, mobility and that all the good that is on our part that we can pass on to others, or what else we can implement to us. The phenomenon of the European high education area is precisely that 46 countries, 47 with Kazakhstan now, without a directive want to participate in the creation of that space. I asked how it works on the Bologna Follow-up Group, whether individual educational systems of individual countries are being considered, so it analyzes what this or that country has achieved in certain issues. It says - rarely. It's mostly about standards that will be acceptable to everyone, and inside that, it's left to every country to do what it wants to do. That's why I'm saying this. I think that we simply owe ourselves, both to our children and to the future of Serbia, to answer a number of questions that are being raised in the application of this law, both for the degree of passability and for the structure of the programme, and for the content of textbooks and for the way of teaching and for many other things. It's totally our thing because the bottom line is that we all focus on what's called the quality of knowledge together. No-knowing diplomas are short-term gains. Only knowledge, you know it as well as I do, only quality knowledge can ensure longevity, quality and progress for what awaits us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41985	National MP Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41986	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I really appreciate all your efforts and I know you're first of all a professor when you're in ministerial office, how well you know the technology of this job. I'm not arguing any of what you said. I really insist and expect that you never and never ignore our tradition of education, that it is always affirmative, as far as possible, when you are in all of your efforts and communication with Europe, because we really have an impressive tradition of education at all levels, as I said. We now have one problem about what you said – essential and formal education. And you know one problem, and now I'm just going to do one digression, and I'm going to use it, because I have time for the parliamentary group to ask you, so we have submitted this amendment, we have insisted on the quality of knowledge, or the paper that I've been talking about. We have a paper problem, and that's a problem that inside the state circulates, you know, it's a variety of diplomas, various doctoral dissertations. You've recently been to a university visiting, as a minister, where there was a big problem with just one doctoral dissertation, it's the Sombor Teacher's College, which is challenged, which is under appeal and many problems are opening up, and no sanctions have happened afterwards for the man who did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41987	National MP Zoran Babic has been reported to the electronic system. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I'm sorry. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41988	Therefore, Article 5 otherwise deals with some additional definition of the procedure for obtaining accreditation of higher education institutions and we have no objections to the essence of Article 5's proposal. However, in the last position of that member, it is said – the solution of the National Council by appeal of the 10th member's position is finally. It's okay, but then there's the next sentence - an administrative dispute can be held against the National Council's solution. We suggest, that's the difference between the law so far, that there can be no administrative dispute, that the word "no" should be inserted. Now let me explain why, I think it's useful to stand. First, such a procedure is prescribed that there is no room for someone to grant a permit to someone unless the appropriate firm meets the requirements of the law. So there is no possibility of either the National Council, or the Commission, or the Ministry. That's one thing. Secondly, it's guaranteed to anyone who hasn't been granted a permit, which is also in the current law, it hasn't changed, that after a year he can ask for a permit again. There is no reason why he would be allowed to conduct a administrative dispute. He could have motive to lead the administrative dispute, no matter what he'd probably lose it, just because under the cover of running a administrative dispute he could possibly get some space so that, I say, works, I'm not going to say black, I'm going to say gray. It's about very sensitive issues. I don't see the need to allow anyone who is and by appeal rejected by the National Educational Council to lead the administrative dispute. Why would they let him do that? Otherwise, he has the right to knock on the door again in a year, and he says, "Now I've met the conditions, so I can get permission to work, or I think I can get a license to work again." I simply suggest that a solution from the existing law be kept, that no administrative dispute can be held against a negative solution. A team before you seem to have made it very clear to me who can get the credentials and who can't. I don't see that there's room in there for someone's spite so that someone doesn't get it, but that there are some real reasons, documented, that they don't meet all the conditions of the law. It is our proposal that no administrative dispute can be conducted, and I ask the minister, I think it is a clever proposal, to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41989	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41990	Dear colleague Shami, what you're saying is all logical, but it's not true. The difference is when teachers write, and when this legal dimension is governed by our colleagues in the legislation. That's what we talked about. In Article 198(2), the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides protection and ensures that the legality of final individual acts, which are decided on rights and obligations or on a law based on interest, is subject to review before a court in a administrative dispute, unless otherwise provided by law. So there will be no question of the decisions of the Commission or the National Council, first-degree or second-degree, regarding the content of this. We had, dear professor, a situation that some of the items had not been considered at all. Believe it or not, they weren't considered. It's a complete breach of procedure. We as the Ministry have received a large number of individual letters, indicating that they have not received any answer. That inability to say, judicial protection is something that was evident here. It's not about the content of the decision, it's about the fact that there was no decision. Now there are decisions and possibilities whether the procedure was resolved. That's the only reason we can't accept anything else. So, just consent with Article 198(2). The RS Constitution. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41991	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41992	Mr. Minister, we obviously don't understand each other. In Serbian, it says, "I'll read you slowly, the solution of the National Council by appeal." The National Council has already decided not to give permission in the first step. These guys were complaining. Let's say this one again decided to appeal not to give permission. It's not about someone's negligence, so he didn't answer. Not what you're talking about. Now, after all this, you give them the right to lead the administrative dispute. For the time being, I'm afraid, you won't be able to stop her from organizing any classes. I'm afraid you won't be able to. I don't see the need to conduct a dispute. Otherwise, I won't go into commenting on lawyers in the legislation, etc. I'd better not say anything. The chairman would have kicked me out of the O.R. right away. It's just that I don't see the point of running a administrative dispute after the whole procedure, and otherwise it has the right under the law to knock again and again in a year's time to ask permission to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41993	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted an amendment adding a new Article 8a after Article 8. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41994	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, today we are having a debate in detail in which we are trying to explain the amendments that we have tabled to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. As far as I could see, a total of 81 amendments were submitted, of which the government accepted 16 amendments. My colleague Nikola Savic has already pointed out that most of the amendments accepted, if I counted well 13, were proposed by the ruling coalition, and only three were proposed from the opposition order, which was not the case when we passed the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, while the government received a total of 63 amendments, which were mostly submitted by opposition representatives. A little statistics to begin with to see that however, the government needed a little more serious to consider these suggestions. However, before I move on to the explanation of the amendments, I would like to present this opportunity with a fierce protest by the SRS parliamentary group over a merciless event or rather say the incident that took place yesterday at Belgrade University, which is that a certain gentleman, named Michael Volcer, was promoted yesterday as the Honorary Doctor of Belgrade University. Now that in itself wouldn't be unusual, because it happens everywhere at other universities, but it's dangerous that if you look at that man's biography a little bit you'll see that it's a man who's hard to stand up for not only the bombing of Serbia, but even for a land offensive and which day-to-day regrets that it's not realized. Mr. Branko Kovacevic himself promoted him to an honorary doctor. A few months ago in Pristina, Clinton was promoted to an honorary doctor, but at least they specifically said there -- due to the exceptional merits he had for the parade of Kosovo. Now I would ask a question - what is the merit of this gentleman to receive such a confession? We strongly condemn the Belgrade University and initiator's move, dean of the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade, Mr. Ilija Vujačić, who has repeatedly said he is the proponent of this initiative. As there are light examples everywhere, I would like to point out the honorary professors, Mr Milan Brdar and Alexander Jokic, who strongly opposed this initiative and we support it anyway. I'm asking you on this occasion that a similar promotion to honoring doctors may not be prepared for Javier Solana, William Walker and others, Wesley Clarke, who bombed us, because there are obviously strange arches and strange criteria for the award of honorary doctorates here. As regards the amendments I have submitted, the amendment relates to Article 8, i.e. it is a member of the 25th current Higher Education Act, and this member says that all studies in RS are conducted either by academic study programmes or by professional study programmes. The SRS parliamentary group advocates the compatibility of both studies and other studies in order for students to be equal to each other. In this sense, I have proposed a change in attitude 5, in particular point 2), where it is said – second-degree studies are graduate academic studies-masters, specialist vocational studies and specialist academics. I suggested that the words "specialistic vocational study" be replaced by the words "professional study-master", because if we advocate equality of both studies, it is logical that students who complete studies under the programme of vocational studies should be equal with this in academic studies, so for this reason I submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41995	Two minutes and 50 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41996	Mr. Michaelovich, let me tell you, my personal opinion is that this question should be subject to a new law. I want to tell you that the academic community has shown during the discussion of the reserve regarding resolving the issues in the way you asked it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41997	National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41998	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, as far as this amendment is concerned, called the same, is a small difference in the text, the amendment submitted by the ruling majority MPs, so I am glad because it is some proof that regardless of party membership we see some problem we want to improve, because it is education, and I think we all agree, something that absolutely needs to have its doctrine and no colour. To this member, who, as far as the SNS is concerned, has no objection, I can even say that it is a very good attempt to finally get into the system of higher education, of course, it will be subsequent sublegal acts of the government and decisions to definitely shape itself, but here you also have suggestions to finally and the jobs of defence, or police education, in civil health, which is good, because there have been a lot of objections on various grounds and in everyday life there have been collages. So this is a member that's fine and we thought exactly, as far as this is concerned, that the next position should be added in this article. I'd read for the public, since you know what this is about. The 9th position should read: "In view of the particular social importance of education in the field of medicine, law, pedagogy and security, the law prescribes specific conditions for the work of higher education institutions that carry out study programmes to obtain a degree in the appropriate level and type of studies in these areas, taking into account the EU regulation. ''We wanted to show in this law the need for special regulation in education in areas of particular importance, and for the public to say that these areas of particular importance are those that affect human life, medicine, law, pedagogy and security. We felt that conditions were being created that would later create a condition for the adoption of a special law on regulated professions. This law on regulated professions, on the other hand, also lists the European Parliament's Directives since 2005 and 2006, and most European countries tend to resolve the law, which applies to those areas, in a practical way. Especially what the position of this bill was brought by the Serbian University Conference, either established by the government or not the founder of the government. In response, you said that the quality of education, not to read, which is, based on standards, accreditation procedures, quality checks and all that, but you also admitted that it is necessary to pass the law and that a special law should be passed on the issue of regulated professions, in accordance with other relevant ministries. Indirectly, we agree that we and you should, in fact, do, the only thing that we felt, to bridge, that one provision in this law is needed, since it is a high education, the law on regulated professions implies some other segments, but it also implies a level of education and that in fact this attitude is not disturbing anything, it can only give quality and create a prerequisite for the adoption of this future law. We don't think this disturbs the concept of the law at all, and that it even goes in favor of what you're likely to bring and propose as a law on regulated professions, and that's why we think that only this member would become even more quality with the integration of the previous two types of professions that you've listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u41999	Two minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42000	Dear colleague, it seems to me that the very relationship to this amendment shows this good will and impartiality that we have shown in relation to any parliamentary group, because you yourself say that a similar amendment has been submitted by the ZES parliamentary group as well as yours. Either way, we didn't accept that amendment, and I'll tell you why. It explains, but you should know that the issue of special conditions is a matter that is resolved through the standards of the National Council for Higher Education. We already have these special conditions for medical school. Otherwise, what we didn't write here, and you should know, it's that we already have a working group at the Ministry working on writing regulated professions. That's two different questions. One question is a regulated profession, and the other is a matter of conditions for the establishment of institutions that have a particular profession. We will have to resolve certain things when we get EU candidate status, as people coming from the EU to Serbia will have to meet certain conditions. That applies to us when it comes to another country. Education is just one of those conditions. This really is a serious question, and that's how it needs to be approached. The National Council has significant powers regarding politics in the area of higher education anyway, and if there is a position of the National High Education Council on strengthening the conditions of standards for establishing certain higher education institutions for certain professions, it can do so without a specific legal solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42001	Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 11th amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42002	Now we're going back to that part of the story that referred to the amendment that we asked this institute not to enter into the amendments to the law. Simply, by comparing what we've written as an amendment, it would be simpler to copy it with little changes, copy-past, than to write the changes that have stood. It is clear that, as we later heard from you, Mr. Minister, there are problems in giving accreditation, problems in giving an opinion and at all what has been done for two thousand and some institutions, that you have registered it, but we have heard it on the Committee. We wrote the amendment before that. We understand, and today you've recapitulated it, that actually the fundamental problem is probably within the deadlines, where they weren't defined in the course of action, when who and how are going to take it according to the request addressed to the Ministry's address, and the Ministry is still asking the commission to go. When a man looks at it and in your proposal for the changes you've made, you haven't committed yourself to the deadlines in at least three positions. That's what we've done with the amendment. Even if for no other reason, you could accept this amendment, it's in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9. In our solution, which we offered through the amendment, we made a commitment to the Ministry of Procedure - when it sends the commission, not only within 30 days when it returns the institution, but also when it does not keep the minister in the drawer, I mean the ministry as an institution, not the minister, that you don't mean anything personal, dark work, which the minister would hold, therefore, in the ministry not to hold in the drawer, as perhaps some official from the commission held someone's request and time promulgated. If it was the worst anomaly, then only those changes could have been done with the disarmament. Giving the committee's opinion to the Ministry to issue a permit is so logical, so drunk. Besides, 2,000 accredited institutions, I don't know how many students are enrolled, 26,000, 30,000 students, how much further do we need to make new higher education institutions in Serbia, give accreditation, to change the law? Will it be 3,000 institutions? At 7% higher education, how many professors do we have here? I warn you that because of the conditions for choice in high science, we will have less and less professors. Now stoned by the way of elections and by the deans, according to the absolute authority that they are exhibiting, many young scientists, young students, docents, extraordinary professors, climate-headed agree to be restricted to regulations and internal laws of the university, in which the minister can never interfere, nor the university, nor anyone else. They're all on their own. What was the law supposed to end the independence of the university, not be a legal person, etc.? We made some misunderstandings that we absolutely didn't need. We can't appoint a Dean, we can't track his work except for surveillance, but we don't have a basis. Why would we ask for a recommendation in the selection of personnel? One is legally derived from the law normative, the other is a commission recommendation, the third is an internal act of the institution, which resuscitates it in its own way, all the way from-to some higher rank. We will enter the hiatus very soon, especially in medical professions, where Tomica Milosavljevic did not allow specialization in people. Years of specialization were not allowed in Serbia, except before the elections. You can't get any clinical professor to work there, because there's got to be a specialization to be in calling the teacher. Secondly, if this is how it goes with giving an opinion, i.e. from initial accreditation, colleges also have the accreditation of the Ministry of Science, it's another kind of license, accreditation, and it gives for many universities, according to the old system, it gets an opinion and yes. It doesn't give this initial accreditation. We're going to go into imbalances a little bit. Maybe it's not bad, because it's simply someone who needs to publicly say that it's the most natural thing to do together be the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Higher Education, because it's a unique portfolio, a lot of things overlap here, a lot of adoptions of attitudes, programs, which are just the continuity of the one obtained in higher education, which is later developed in scientific research. The amendment we gave must have removed the dilemmas you had, even with regard to the deadlines that exist. Doesn't matter, according to what we said, whether it's called a work license or an initial license. Otherwise, that initial gives someone a chance a year to work. Who will have to tell someone after a year? You really didn't have anything good with the paperwork? What have we given him, who will be responsible, this initial accreditation? I'm not saying it won't apply to the initial license and it won't protect this. Generally, we've come out of manners, out of a pattern of stalking behavior, because I don't know how many more of them are waiting to be accredited, that information I don't know, I haven't opened up the site, so now it would be easier or more elegant for someone to finish the accreditation work, to change the law now. It's not a matter of good faith anymore. This was one of those stalking mechanisms that would go smoothly, by correcting the gaps, even if they were armed, because we have a protection mechanism in the last article. Every school year during the first implementation of the programme, the commission conducts an external check. Great. Practically, if we had given the old way of giving permission to work, we would have done a check, we could say – here, a year we will follow it. It's a brand-new attitude, I think, then by accepting this article the way we've brought it, this proposal, we've stayed on the old, important things change, and we've been calm. Not to create a mortgage – what are we doing now, if 2,000 higher education institutions are already accredited, how much longer is it? With 6.8% of Serbian higher education, how long would it take colleges, high schools? I probably should agree more, but should we let it devalue the criteria?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42003	Three minutes and 50 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42004	Thank you, dear colleague. Your amendment is large in content and in certain parts it is identical to what we have as the text of the Amendment and the addition of the Law, in certain parts it differs. I must say that we have accepted, it seems to me, the same member of the DSS amendment, on deadlines, and the Committee has accepted an amendment, which is also bound by the deadlines and obligations of the Ministry. It is part of your amendment, but it has content that differs completely. For that reason he could not be accepted. The accreditation process, here's the law, says who started the accreditation procedure has to be completed. The lack of the whole accreditation process has been demonstrated which some deadlines have not been precisely established. In that vacuum, some things are left, I'm not going to say unsolved, but they've not been brought up with any attitude. Now there was a need to solve this issue. Whether it will be the Commission's opinion positively, negatively, it doesn't matter at all at this point. The point is to adopt an appropriate opinion and to improve the whole process. When you mention this strategic goal of ours, I made my point, and when we talked about the debate on this law in principle, we need to increase the number of highly educated people, because it is Serbia's interest and work together on quality. In the 1980s in France, I can't remember, but I don't think that in the mid-80s, I don't know who the Prime Minister was, in the 1980s, France changed the rules in higher education, and believe it or not, I read that in a single daily list then, I remember now, the changed regulations on the establishment of higher education institutions, which created the possibility of increasing the number of students. Then, within a few years, the number of students in France rose from 900,000 to 2.2 million. I'm not saying this in favor of being set up, but I'm saying that countries apply different methods to solve some of the problems they face, and a lack of highly educated people, and probably need a number of people with certain professions or something like that. The point is, this law is not bad. Our higher education isn't bad, but we want it to be better both. Our intention is to improve the system, and then we have the strength to say in the next year and a half what is wrong with it, so what is wrong with us to reject, abolish, stop applying, and some new solutions that are quality, which open the way for Serbia to the future we implement. I remind you, this law was passed by one congregation majority, and today the other congregation majority is talking about it, but in the debate, what I am looking forward to as a minister, there is no debate of the type – you have brought it, so now we are against it. No, there's talk about the content of the law and about high education and what can improve the law. Some parts of this amendment are good, but there are also parts that we think are bad because practice has shown them bad, and some of that amendment has been resolved by other amendments, and that is why we could not accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42005	Anyone else want a word? If not, National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42006	This amendment that the Committee has accepted, as an amendment to the Committee, because we have not technically received it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42007	We'll consult the service, but I think it's about the amendment tabled by the Committee and the agreement on the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42008	A similar amendment is one of Hope Kolundji's colleagues. Then the Committee adopted its amendment, which will be the subject of a declaration by the National Assembly. The Committee tabled an amendment that increased the level of the bank guarantee for the establishment of higher education institutions and is now required 25% as one type of guarantee for students. Let me just comment, because it's an amendment to the Committee, so I think the public should know that too.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42009	So the amendment was submitted to Article 11 by the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. No one wants a word in the debate. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee for Education, submitted an amendment to Article 11. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment and, which is the amendment on which the proposing representative, Minister of Education Zarko Obradovic, commented. Since we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee, and on this amendment, as well as on others, the National Assembly will declare itself on Voting Day. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpic. That the line wants a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word is from Ambassador Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42010	Madam President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted to the PAPS an amendment to change in Article 11(5) in the establishment of higher education institutions, for which no funding from the Republic's budget is provided. We suggest, it would be more logical to fix this member, since there is only a higher education facility, that the bank guarantee, which we see will now be 25%, is not given by an appropriate higher education institution, because it is not even established, but by those who want to establish it. So, the founders of a higher school institution are obliged to be obliged to deliver these 25% as a bank guarantee, not a higher education facility. That's what's older, chicken or egg?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42011	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education and to the 11th member of this law which speaks of initial accreditation, i.e. the initial quality of study. I understand from the text of the law what was the proposal's intention, but it seems to me, I have the impression that it's done a little wrong, it's done stupidly. That's why I filed this amendment. You're here talking about the initial quality of study as some sort of thing, and that's just not possible. I don't think there's anything in advance to be talked about, especially some quality of study, until it's checked out in practice. It would be about the same for you if we were to talk about this football world championship, which is now in progress, before it starts, about how this world championship is the best quality, it's going to be the most goals, it's going to be held in the best weather conditions, and based on these, how many days it's started, we've seen that it's a practice that's been denied. That's why I filed this amendment. I believe, and it is a wish for all of us, for the quality of study to be at a satisfactory level. It can only be judged from a certain time distance, not just before the start of the study process.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42013	Anyone else want a word? If not, the MPs Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee did not declare itself, and the National Assembly in the Voting Day will declare it. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42014	This amendment is due to this previous amendment that I was talking about. Since the government, or Mr. Minister, obviously does not want to accept this suggestion, then there is no need now to explain anything in particular further, since I have already explained it to Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42015	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and MP Jon Magda. The government did not accept the amendment and the Education Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and MP Jon Magda together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42016	It is that Article 14, unlike so far solutions in the law, makes a difference in how the advice of a higher education institution is formed. There is a difference between higher education institutions organised by the state of Serbia and these others. In other words, the provisions as the council, which have so far been applicable to all, are now only applicable to higher education institutions whose founder is Serbia's state, while in the last position of this member, the number of members and the composition of the council of a higher school institution, whose founder is not the Republic, is determined by the statute of the higher education institution. Private colleges can form advice as they imagine it. There can be three members, five members or 55 members, and the law doesn't do that at all. We don't think there's anything to make a difference in, anything to essentially distinguish between the institutions of which is the founder of states and private colleges. Nothing, no matter how the advice of a higher school institution is formed. I don't see what would bother the provisions on how the council of a higher education institution is formed apply to all higher education institutions, no matter who their founder is. Our intervention was to simply delete the first and third points of view. to remain a valid solution to the applicable law, where the advice of a higher education institution is in the same way, whether it is the founder of a state or not. I don't know why you didn't accept this amendment. I don't think there's any difference between higher education institutions in this matter than who their founder is. There shouldn't be any difference in anything, not even in the way the council is set up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42017	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42018	There are differences. There are no differences in the quality system, standards, conditions, equipment and calls of teachers, standards that need to be met and the necessary conditions, etc., but the differences of others exist. The level of banking guarantees as a condition for establishment, as a guarantee for students, exists, where in practice the founder, just because he is a different founder, cannot even make appropriate decisions which, objectively, represent a problem for work. They are equal to standards, conditions and form of property, but certain differences exist. Essentially, it has to be admitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42019	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42020	Excuse me, Mr. Minister, I agree with you, there are some differences. But I wasn't talking about the level of bank guarantees. I was talking about an important one for a higher school institution, for her advice. The council is important and he, by some other laws and rules of the game, has certain jobs he does. Why would private institutions allow them to make advice that they like? I mean, I don't see, or to be honest, I see, but what I see doesn't like.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42021	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has not spoken out, and we will decide in the voting day, as well as on other amendments. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, our amendment is similar to what Professor Shami explained earlier. In this amendment, we have suggested that Section 3 be deleted. Item 3 refers in fact to the number and composition of the Council. For the sake of the public, let me read to you: "The number of members and the composition of the Council of the Higher School Institution whose founder is not the Republic shall be governed by the statute of the higher education institution". We are also of the opinion that in this law we need a number of bars, if not the composition, to be regulated and determined by law. Nothing that the number and composition will be regulated by law won't be the founding rights of the one who founded that college to be violated. In fact, the Ministry and you as Minister, when I say Minister, do not think directly of you, see yourself in the debate, not only in the Assembly, but as much on television, in the newspapers, and in the academic public and in that extra-academic public, there is a proper negative charge for private universities. To be clear - I am for equal attendance of both state and private colleges, not only was I abroad and what is present in the world, and that quality, the way they teach and all is what is the only criterion, but also the criteria of studying and the quality of the staff coming out is what needs to be a real criterion. You've heard a lot of things about these Ph.D.s that are defended at private colleges, so it should actually be one wisdom to determine that, the founder who invests his bank guarantees won't compromise the determination of the number and composition of the council. And in the principle debate, I mentioned, at every university, whether it's state or private, there are three stakeholders. The interested parties are students. If they are paying tuition, they should, however, be advised to present the way of the organization and some problems to solve. The other interested parties are lecturers, so teachers, assistants and, of course, founders. So the function, the quality of function and the private college depends on this site, and will not be compromised. That would reduce the negative charge. Check, say, in the economy who graduated from the private economics college, can he enroll in doctoral studies? You got it. Do you know how? One who has graduated from the state economic college is ranked on average, and those who have completed a private assessment are also more eligible, but ask them to take additional exams depending on the direction. It's not an equal approach. So for those of you who have graduated from the private schools for doctoral studies, they're looking for, in addition to the average grade, a state college to check them out. I don't think that's right. I want to, and we as a party want it to be equal. This is going to get a lot of public attention, and it's not going to jeopardize founding rights and funding. It is clear to all of us, so I think that this amendment should have been properly respected and resolved, precisely because that part of the private colleges and universities, in an appropriate way, was brought to that side by the shoulder and that quality was the only parameter in the assessment of any university, regardless of the ownership presence.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42023	Two minutes have been used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42024	With all the respect you've expressed, I don't think you're right. We suggested this solution because we had problems in practice that we didn't really know who was in charge. Believe it or not, some people are having a judicial dispute about the university, colleges within the university or certain transformations that were related to that very structure, because the private founder had one number of people, to say two or three, from the university of the higher school institution there were more. Then they were autonomous, although they did not participate in the establishment of the university in the way the founder did, he made decisions that were the result of their interest and it produced one difference. Good will is good will, but some solutions lead to completely opposite situations in life. We suggested this solution which was otherwise part of some of the proposals that were heard in the debate to know exactly what was what. I have to go back to what my colleague Shami said. You know how, don't take this the wrong way, but it turns out that we're talking seriously about some things about higher education for the first time. Some higher education institutions have existed for 20 years. This is 2010. They have already existed for 17, 18, 19, 20 years and have been established according to different legal acts. Not since this law, thanks to the accreditation committee, these standards are applicable to everyone. Whoever meets the requirements can work, who does not meet the conditions should not work, and in particular now we will also have these higher administrative powers of the ministry and criminal policies. Quality is the problem. You're absolutely right about that, but we should all work on this problem, because there are private colleges where the passing is high and there are state schools where the passing is high. It's a small number of private colleges where passing is low, but there are also state schools where passability is extremely low. That's not enough to talk about. They are the conditions for setting up and working the same, but in this founding work it is different, so the Republic as the founder has prescribed certain conditions for setting up. It is logical that although a private person submits a request for the establishment of a higher education institution, he has autonomy regarding the number and composition that will be established by the founding act and the higher education institution, because we already have in practice based on a previous solution to the problem, which can happen and the court in Strasbourg. The way it's going and it can happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42025	The word is given by the people Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42026	This isn't a replica. I just want, as a professor who works at the state college, and I'm aware of these charges and problems that exist in private, that through every law, everything is slowly built, that there's really a quality, that there's something that our country needs. Whether I or one of us likes it should be on the sidelines. The interest of education is to gain a higher percentage of educational staff in a quality and proper way, and we must in our heads, both out-of-academic and academic circles, that we slowly but only have the right criteria. You're right, the accreditation commission and the conditions of accreditation and teaching should put it in order, but also these small items, I know from the commentary, so I said, people get caught up in a lot of things that are different from the organization of the state and suddenly it's showing up, and you're aware of that, as a negative connotation in the way the university works that aren't private. Our discussion is extremely well-intentioned, that this is no longer a matter of party or state membership, but of a better education, a better quality and higher percentage of educated people in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42027	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42028	Mr. Prince, believe me, I don't see your exposure any other way but as a well-intentioned one, I just want to point out to you what I saw as a minister. One kind of conversation is here in the Assembly, and another kind of conversation is in the media. The third kind of conversation is at individual higher education institutions, and the fourth kind of conversation is on bodies that are part of the higher education system, and we are the Ministry that must propose certain solutions and solve problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42029	The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by the People's MPs Nada Kolundžija, Dragoljub Micunovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Vlatko Ratkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted an amendment adding a new member of 14a after Article 14. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has not spoken out, and the National Assembly will also declare this amendment in the voting day. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted an amendment after article 14. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42030	In the past five years, as far as the Law on Higher Education has insisted in Serbia, each item in this law has received its practical verification in a positive, either in a negative sense, and it is likely that the ministry has had sufficient feedback, and has therefore proposed these 33 members, which are being amended by this bill. We, too, are employed in higher education institutions, based on what we have acquired in these five years, and positive and negative experiences, have proposed our amendments, and so is the amendment that I have submitted to Article 14. is, in fact, the result of what was happening in higher education institutions in a negative way, and it is about elections for the student parliament. The student parliament is the body of a higher education institution and it has its own authorities, its president, elected by the statutes of the higher education institution, and that is exactly what my amendment applies. I suggested that, instead of the statutes of each institution, this should be regulated by law in particular, by the school management body, which is the council of the school, having one authority higher and in Article 53. should be added another point – appoints a commission to conduct elections for the student parliament. It's a very interesting explanation the government gave. I will read it – the amendment should not be accepted because the proposed amendment is contrary to Article 56(2). A law stipulating that the choice method and the number of members of the student parliament are determined by a general act of the higher education institution. The government tells us practically something here that we all know, that this issue is regulated by the statute, and in fact there is a replacement cause and effect, because we have just demanded that it be done in the future not by the act of a higher school institution, but by law and that it be uniformly arranged for all higher education institutions in the Republic of Serbia. Because we are all witnessing that during these elections for the student parliament there have been major manipulations and disagreements, so since the minister said that all amendments that are not now adopted can be the starting point for some new next opportunity, then I would point this out as one of the essential members that needs to be changed, because it is certain that the statute is not a holy letter, and that it should be changed, if it is in the interest of both students and the higher education institutions themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42031	A minute and 15 seconds have taken advantage of the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted an amendment adding a new Article 14a after Article 14. The word has an MP, Momchilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42032	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I propose an amendment to add Article 14a after Article 14. In the previous law, Article 56(5) reads -- the election of members of the student parliament is held every year in April by a secret and direct vote. This, according to us, in the SRS is so undefined and vague and here there have been a lot of irregularities about the election of members of the student parliament, because direct practice has shown that in many cases, when students are elected, everything is under suspicious circumstances. I therefore propose measures of common interest for students and higher education institutions and those: The vote-making process for the student parliament shall be conducted by the managing authority of the higher education institution and appointed by the Commission for the conduct of the elections for the student parliament, in which they enter, under number 1 – the representative of the student from each year of the study, enrolled in studies in the current school year, selected by the students by public voting at the student assembly of the appropriate number of students; under number 2 per year of the teacher's representative from each year of the study selected by the professional bodies of the higher school institution and the teaching-science higher, teaching-artical higher or teaching higher, public voting at the session of the relevant professional body of the higher education institution. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr. Minister, if you do not accept this amendment, you have so far had a fair and chaos in Serbia in higher education institutions. I'm just going to tell you a few examples from Racine County in those high school institutions. For example, students who finished this school and were members of the student parliament or presidents, they re-enter the same school, only the second direction, to perform this function again. There are examples, and these are examples in five or six cases in our district, Kruševac, Trstenik, etc. So I ask you to clarify this and see that this amendment of mine is accepted. In the end, Mr. Minister, I really need to thank you, because you gave me an answer to the parliamentary question concerning the selection of directors at the Music School "Stevan Kristic" in Kruševec and the Children's Institute "Nata Veljković". There you, Mr. Minister, have done what is right and therefore should be done by every minister, because you have prevented the arrogant behaviour of the Unique Serbia and DS from choosing the directors in those institutions. For example, in Music School a director who had completed the Dif was elected, and in "Nati Veljković" he was twice selected director who had a higher school and had no years of work experience. I thank you once again, that's how every minister should work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42033	A minute and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a minister, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42034	Not about this second one, but about the first one. counterpart Mihajlovic and counterpart Duvnjak have submitted two amendments that actually have the same essence, and the essence is the choice of the student parliament. The way the student parliament is elected and the number of members of the student parliament is governed by the act of a higher education institution. To be honest, I think it's the right thing to do. What you need to answer to yourself or others is, as possible, as counterpart Mihajlovic told us on the Committee, that the same person should be Parliament's president for six years. Is it possible that the higher education facility couldn't change the act within six years and determine the exact conditions? Well, here we are, passing laws, and any person can be elected once, twice or already as many, and for students the same goes, from which year etc. That question, in my opinion, should absolutely be arranged by that act and should not be subject to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42035	The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42036	Just a little bit on my colleague's amendment, Mr. Duvnjak. Students are a special category in every society, with specific desires, and regardless of what has been done today, decentralisation of higher education institutions, which has brought universities and higher schools closer to all Serbia's districts, does not necessarily mean that students are better off than in previous times. On the one hand, I think students have big problems, too. Because, don't forget, a large number of students are forced to work to pay tuition, to pay rent, food and everything else. I really must say that today's students are in a difficult position, rather than, say, when it was in my time and in your time, Mr. Obradovic, you should take a little care of that. I also know cases where there was an illegal election of members of the student parliament from the city I came from, from Nis, but I wouldn't point out to this occasion either the names of higher education institutions or the names of those people who did it, but I'd like to point to another thing. It is known that for eight years it has been in the process, i.e. the adoption of a law on student organisation, but to this day there is still nothing. Perhaps this has been an opportunity, too, Mr. Obradovic, for this law that we are considering today to pass and this law on student organisation. I would also like to say in the end, which is why someone is denying the right of academics to participate in higher education reform themselves, because practically that higher education is the most and the most direct way for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42037	Two minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MPs Miletic Mihajlovic and Milisav Petronijevic together submitted an amendment that is added after Article 14a. This amendment was accepted by both the Government and the Education Committee. The Legislative Committee does not have a report and will be declared in the voting day. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education, tabled an amendment to Article 16. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee does not have a report. We will declare the amendment in the day of the vote. National MP Nenad Prokic submitted an amendment to add a new Article 17a. Does anyone want a word? The word is Nenad Prokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42038	Dear Mrs Comic, dear Minister, once again, before I say something about this amendment, I would like to point out the comprehensiveness and importance of the reform Europe is conducting in the field of education. There hasn't been anything like that since the Middle Ages. In the Middle Ages, Europe was more connected than ever before because from Dublin to Jerusalem, from Helsinki to Lisbon, the same learned people, those most learned, spoke the same excellent language, Latin. Since then, there has been no more comprehensive attempt to connect Europe's cultural and educational space in a better way than it has ever been, and I think that this debate also shows that we are not often aware of how important it is, if we want to get comfortable in European cultural and educational space for the next few centuries, geographically, politically and in any other way, that we need this most important aspect of integration by education to get involved in it as quickly as possible. In this sense, I have submitted one amendment, which is a tennis player, known to him by the institutions of higher education of many countries. He is sometimes contradictory, but what is not contradictory in the world of democracy, so this one can also be abused. It's about top scientific workers getting a hundred percent or at least an approximate guarantee of their intellectual capabilities to spread their new ideas. At the very least, and Eurosceptics in this way, when we become the EU one day, they will be able to see the EU's bad sides because they will be in a position to be protected from administration so that they can probably, I don't say it with irony, because they are skeptical, because they have a pragmatic tone and a polemic view, to be protected from any pressures of the administration on their actions. I think it would be very important that, if we can't do it right now, let's see how it's proposed, who proposes it, how it gets it, in any case, it's about exceptional scientific workers, top experts in their field.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42039	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, Parliament MP Đuro Peric has submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No). The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42040	First, one little comment. You didn't say Mr. Peric's amendment, which is actually half my amendment, the Education Committee has accepted, but the government hasn't. Now I intervene as chairman of the Education Committee. I think it would be good for the government to respect the Committee on Education of the Assembly and accept the amendment in general. I'll explain what's going on right now. The government is making two changes to the existing law. The current law provided for the possibility of an extension of work up to two years, when pension conditions are obtained. This law proposes up to three years, and we support it, but in the existing law, on the other hand, it's about teachers, so teachers in all their titles, and here it's clear that they have to be just regular teachers. Mr. Peric suggested that they could be extraordinary professors, and I suggested that they be extraordinary professors, but I also made another proposal. In fact, how does this exercise today the right that when someone turns 65 they can extend? Of course, the professor's consent is required, but then the colleges decide on it, which is the rule of teaching and scientific council. As a rule, since there are many more of those who would love to see the professor's back in order to make their own progress, then unfortunately, very often it happens that some good and respected professor doesn't get the university's consent to extend his work. In doing so, very often, we constantly move these retirement limits for a large number of people because the state has no money. This is university professors, to be clear, not much. I have suggested one solution that is valid in all decent countries. In fact, we have suggested that the teacher of Item 1 of this member in calling an extraordinary or regular professor, or professor of vocational studies, be automatically extended to three school years if he so requests. In other words, a professor doesn't have to have some special lobbyes in college now to extend his work to three years. I just think it's useful for the state, and it's more useful if every one of the professors who wants to continue working with the students feels capable of making it possible for him to do it. The state will save money because they won't give him a pension. On the other hand, she'd pay someone else instead, and I think a solution like this would be good. In any case, my proposal contains two things, one proposed by Mr. Peric and accepted by the Committee, that is to expand the matter to extraordinary professors. I don't want to explain why I think it is. Unfortunately, there are some extraordinary professors who have stayed with extraordinary professors just because at some point they were not at the will of a former minister of education. I don't mean Mr. Obradovic now, but I mean some of his former party colleagues. On the other hand, of course, when political conditions came to pass, these teachers were no longer interested in going into more calling. Right away, this amendment of mine has nothing to do with me personally, and I'm not going to continue to work after 65 years in college, but I think it would be more than enough for me, in total useful to be left behind, and instead of the various dances that are organized in our colleges, it's just that the professor pleads that he wants, and then automatically extends to him to three years, of course, one, two or three, as many men as he wants and thinks he's capable of working. I have no doubt that if someone doesn't feel good, if they're not healthy and if they know they can't work, they'll fight to keep working. I don't think that's gonna happen. That was my amendment. I also have a proposal, if you will not accept the DSS amendment, then at least accept this amendment, which the Education Committee has otherwise submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42041	Four minutes have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42042	I'm sorry, Mr. Shami, for what happened to you. That wasn't my party's position. Maybe the people from the party we didn't get along with. You mentioned, so it's time to say, because we have a number of negative experiences as a party after 2000 with people from your party, so we don't experience that it was a party policy, but the drive of some people who saw themselves as someone who ruled on the fate of others. I sincerely hope it's time for us. I expect the Assembly to vote on the amendment of counterpart Djura Peric and that we will address the issue in one way that is best in the interest of higher education.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42043	National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted an amendment adding a new article 18a after article 18a. This amendment was accepted by the Government and the Education Committee, and the National Assembly will declare itself in the voting day. National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Vesna Pesic and Nenad Prokic together submitted an amendment adding a new article 18a after article 18a. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Nenad Prokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42044	I don't know if this is 18 or 19. Okay. It doesn't matter. So I found a study on the number of students when it comes to selecting studies among graduates. So, 91% of students want to enroll in the state college because of budgets, homes and cafeterias, 33% enroll in college based on the cost of tuition, and 64% study outside of the housing site, which only says that almost all of them have to work. If a state can meet such students and include the right to deduct taxes on the personal income of students in favour of tuition, I think that would be fair and fair. If the average gross salary for May was slightly less than 50,000, then 12% would be slightly less than 6,000. That's 70,000 a year. So, more than three-quarters of the average tuition, of course not for the full amount of taxes, but for some of its percentages, we could certainly make it easier for people in this poor country to study, which, of course, contributes to that same country. I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't think this through.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42045	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Krpic submitted an amendment adding a new article after article 18. 18a, 18b, 18v and 18g. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42046	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment before the PUPS, in favour of extraordinary students, because we believe that amendments to the Law on Higher Education should be proposed and the introduction of a category of extraordinary students, in which academics working and wanting to study should be proposed. Unlike self-financed students, extracurricular students would not be obliged to attend lectures and exercises, and education costs would be paid themselves. Since it's about employees, it would be a special model of how to attend classes without them fulfilling their work obligations. They would not be subject to the deadline of completion of the study as regular and self-financed. According to the Law on Higher Education, students are obliged to complete colleges, etc., and we also today believe that this category of students who had already existed in earlier periods, and thus are practically implemented the declared principle of education throughout their lives, that they should allow that group of people to actually be able to study.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42047	Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Vesna Pesic and Nenad Prokic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42048	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister, in article 19, you basically accepted the idea of the DSS two years ago, how to regulate the question of who's on the budget, who's not on the budget. Our idea was then, and it is now to open one game, to have students compete with each other and to have the first "N" as much as the state pays, no matter what their status was until then, be on the budget, and the rest pay. In other words, each year the status of students in this regard could be changed. For example, he was on the budget for the first year, so he didn't get laid, and he's going to pay on his own, so then third year he can be back on the budget and vice versa. All combinations are possible. On that side, there's no problem, we as DSS, since we suggested it two years ago, we welcome that something like this has found places in these amendments and additions to the law. However, we suggested that attitude 2 be changed, not essentially, but that it be more precisely formulated. A motive for such a thing: I know too well how colleges work, and I am very afraid that if you leave the colleges alone to set the rules of the game how they're going to make rank lists, etc., that this can lead to a variety of misunderstandings which, first of all, will undoubtedly cause you, as the current minister, and future ministers to suffer headache, our MPs will suffer much less, but I don't see why this could not be done properly. Here's what we suggested. We have suggested that instead of the 2nd position, this is the position: "If the total number of students who have financed from the budget and who have financed themselves, who have met the condition of the previous position", I remind you that this condition is 60 points, or now there is a temporary solution from a smaller number of points, but in the future there will be 60 points, "more than the number of students that can be financed from the budget, the right to finance from the budget is obtained by students on the basis of a single ranking list that is made according to the total number of points won during the study, with students with a higher average score calculated on two decimals in the same number of points." I don't think that if we were to formulate this attitude, then you wouldn't leave any space for colleges for various creative solutions. The thing would be completely clean. So it wouldn't be after grandma or uncles. If there are more students who have collected 60 points, or currently 48, this is later being made in that next article 26, it seems to me, if there are more than the state can pay, there is a ranking list, and if the state pays 50, those first 50 will come in to finance from the budget, and they can all study, but by paying themselves that year. Next year's a new competition, so I'll say it's going to be a different list. In this way, students are stimulated to study, to take regular exams, and to take the best exams. I still can't understand why you haven't accepted this amendment. It is written in the best of intentions and in the spirit of changes and additions to this law. So, I ask Mr. Minister to reconsider, he doesn't have to give any arguments if he doesn't want to accept the amendment, but I think it would be useful to accept the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42049	The time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group and one minute of the parliamentary group was used. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42050	The minister in this case wants to give an answer. You know that answer, but because of the MPs who are here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and because of the public of Serbia, I want to say a few things. First of all, in 2008, when we changed the Law on Higher Education and changed the number of points needed to enter the year, there was no proposal in the academic public of Serbia to change the status of students who were on the budget. It just isn't. It was part of a requirement that had a number of students who were then on the street and that was the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia. That's right. As for this second one, I told Professor Shami on the board, and I want to tell all of you, I think this is a solution that we suggest is fairer. More just because it gives priority to that student, to any student who makes 60 points or 48 points during the school year and has a better average. That's what I'm saying, Professor Shami, just because of this sentence - which refers to the total number of points won. He must give a condition, it is undeniable, but the total number of points he has from the previous year can give him an advantage in that year compared to those that might be better that year. Only for that reason, because the total number of points includes the accumulation of points from the previous year. The solution that we have predicted is the highest number of points, 48 to 60, in this year and next year, and then the third one is known, it has to be 60 points and the average score. That's the only reason we couldn't accept this amendment. We simply think that this solution is fairer for those students who, during that school year, show a higher level of knowledge and have a better average. A member of this law who somehow stays in the shadows is constantly forgotten, and it is terribly important for students, and still shows one width that the Government of the Republic of Serbia shows towards all students. It is a member of the law that regulates the status of students who do not pass all the exams and do not have until the end that number of points reached for the current year. The state predicted the possibility of these students being funded in the fifth year. Those enrolled in 2006/2007, if they achieved the number of points needed for the condition, they practically have another 65 points in the fifth year and for those in 2008/2009. In the year, the number of points is 36 and the state is funding them for six months. So it really covers a lot of students with both this and other solutions. This solution is fairer and I'm convinced, September and October is very close, so we'll see if any of the college will be that within that so-called 120% quota, as we call it popular, whether they all have 60 points and whether they'll be 120 first with 60 points. In our opinion, this solution is better quality, and that is the only reason we could not accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42051	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42052	Mr. Minister, I can see that you are firmly convinced that your solution is fairer, but what you said will simply be very easy to bring down. Article 1 defines that first of all, the players who won 60 points this year are in the game. While some transitional solutions last, perhaps less, but only students who won 60 points are in the game. You're afraid of counting backwards, but you'll let me, is a better student who cleaned up all the previous years and of course won 60 points this year or a student who hasn't cleaned up all the previous years and won 60 points this year? I think the one who cleaned up all the years, and not yours, will have the advantage, because you will only measure him for the last year. So what we're proposing in this amendment is a simple rule. At the beginning of the first year, he decides the entrance exam. In the second year's enrolment, he decides to succeed on the first. On the third year's enrolment, he decides the overall success of that third year, so on the first and second. Who's better? Better one who's got more points. If they have the same points, one that has a higher average score. For the fourth year's enrollment, I'm adding points first, second and third years. Better one who's got more points. If the number of points is the same, one who has a higher average score by that time is better. More just than that, he can't. You suggest - I measure first those of 60 points, I measure success only in the last year, who has a higher average goes on and who doesn't, and then it can happen that your student didn't pass your exam from the previous year because because of these various transitional solutions he could also enroll in one or two exams. I don't know why you don't accept this, but my logic can't understand it. I think this is the farthest fair solution and we certainly have no interest in proposing solutions that would be ambiguous. This is unequivocally defined who's better. It's just that students are competing, those N's are going to be on the budget, and everyone else is going to pay for the finished thing. I don't know why this amendment bothers you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42053	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42054	Professor Shami, you have a completely wrong belief, your amendment doesn't bother me. (Zoran Shami, from the place: accept it then.) I won't because this one's better, that's the difference. Our solution involves every year the best, not what it carries from the previous year. Being the best in the previous year does not mean that it will be in the current year, but implies that each year the best, with the best average, will be at 120%. I'm sorry, we think this is more just for generations that come in fact, I'm not going to explain your amendment, you've explained it. Every year students who score the highest number of points have the best enrollment, join the ranks of those financed by the state, plus 20% that determines the university by their decision, and that's the 120%.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42055	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42056	Mr. Master Srboljub Zivanovic submitted an amendment to Article 19 of the Law and a member of the 19th Law regulates detention, i.e. obtaining the status of students financed from the budget. On behalf of the SRS, we have submitted an amendment, which reads: "A student who is financed from the budget can have only one study programme listed in that status at the same level of study, with the possibility of enrolling another study programme that he himself will finance." So, a member of the 19th law is so that only a student who is financed from the budget can have only one study programme enrolled in that status at the same level of the study. For the sake of clarity of this law, for the sake of better informing students, we added this possibility for students with such interest to enter parallel and other colleges, but to finance it. It is known that Serbia has a large number of highly intelligent and educated children who want to study and study two universities at the same time, e.g. physics and mathematics, medicine and dentistry, electrical engineering and mathematics, etc. However, in order to avoid overqualification, we have suggested that these students waste time during their studies that this member of the law be defined in this way. You stated in your explanation everything we wanted to say, by saying – the amendment is not accepted because the law allows a student who is financed from the budget to be enrolled in the status of a student who himself is funded at the second or other study programmes of the same level of study. There is no clear and decadent statement here that this student will not be on the budget, or that he must finance his studies, so that this amendment has made this law clearer and more precise. I regret that you did not have enough hearing to accept this amendment by Mr. Zivanovic. Now, at the time of the parliamentary group, I would like to make some of my findings regarding the Law on Higher Education. I would just like to remind Mr. Minister, he knows that after 2000, and I am saying this on behalf of doctors and highly educated men of the Medical Faculty in Belgrade who, I believe, and many, have experienced a lustration since 2000. According to the 1998 Higher Education Act, about a hundred doctors were elected to call a doctor, a regular or extraordinary professor. After 2000, however, it happened that about 80 percent, regular or extraordinary professors, were fired illegally and illegally. Under that law, they had the right to remain in the status they were elected to for five years. However, in 2001 or 2002 many of them were given a simple explanation that they were fired. One of the reasons was that the competition they were chosen to call was annulled. Now, I'm asking you as Minister, you can't influence it because this trial has reached the highest constitutional court, so you can't influence it, but do you think it could have been prevented? Because 80 highly qualified people who have invested in their education for at least 15 years, I'm talking about medical studies that last five or six years, about specializations that last four or five years, about Master's studies that last two or three years, about doctoral dissertations, and who had all the conditions when they were elected to call a doctor, an extraordinary and regular professor, then the teaching-science major refused the court's verdict. The court returned them to work, and the teaching-science council increased them by its number of members, and the teaching-science council, for example. The medical school has between 460 and 500 assistants, docents and professors, by voting they are still not returned to their jobs. I'm asking you now, since you've already spoken in today's discussion, we know that universities are independent independent bodies, is it in the interests of society, in the interest of the profession, in the interest of education to lose such professionals, who have not contributed to anything but perhaps by their political belongings, to lose what they've invested for 15 years? I'm saying this for a reason not to say that the lustration wasn't there. The lustration was carried out at the Faculty of Medicine, unfortunately, at one of the biggest and best universities, which give the biggest experts in this country and I think it was not fair. It could have been prevented, not to come to the Constitutional Court now, perhaps you couldn't have prevented it, but it could have been prevented in another way. That's what I'm saying for one more reason, to go back to the 16th that talks about the elected professor, the honorary professor of the university. I think you should have professors of honor, which are significant names of different professions. But I don't think that's the way to deny people. You know how a regular professor is chosen, chosen by competition, if someone chooses to call an honorary, whether there's a competition or just on the basis of the college's decision, or this teaching-science council? On the other hand, can it be misused? The Health Protection Act today provides that only extra work can be done by college professors. Is that how you make it possible again, not for all doctors to work additionally, but only for regular professors of some college? These are some questions that are of interest to both profession and science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42057	Eight minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42058	You asked me a lot of questions. I'm not in a position to answer today, so I'd like you to address the Ministry, give a written and correct answer, not to elaborate any questions. When you mentioned the '90s, or what happened after, I hope that's a long time behind us. I condemn any persecution and shagging, harassment, release from the academic community of anyone else for any political position or reason that has nothing to do with breaking the law or with ethics that is part of a higher education system. Finally, what is decisive, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and all of us in higher education, I say all of us because there are many of us, we need to know that the laws must be respected and that the court's decision is final and binding for all. Whatever we individually think, it can only be our attitude. The Court's decision must be valid for all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42059	National MP Gordana Paunovic Milosavljevic is again looking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42060	I wanted to ask you if in these additions and amendments to this law you predicted it wasn't the final decision of the Educational and Scientific Council? So far, the court's decision has gone to the teaching-science council, so the teaching-science council there has been lobbying to determine whether anyone will remain a doctor, will not be a doctor. It's something I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42061	The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpic to article 19. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42062	President-in-Office, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, in front of the PUPS, I have submitted an amendment to article 19 which reads that an extraordinary student who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 1, 2 and 4 of this article has the right to continue studying in the status of a student who is financed from the budget, with respect to the obligations laid down in Article 86(1) of this Act. In light of the fact that this amendment of ours has been rejected, the amendment should not be accepted because students are enrolled in studies in student status that are financed from the budget or in the status of self-financing students. I asked a question about an extraordinary student, when the year is over, can he compete to go to regular students, or to use budgets or budgets for his further education?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42063	National MPs Miletic Mihajlovic and Milisav Petronijevic together submitted the 19th amendment. This amendment was accepted by both the Government and the Education Committee. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42064	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 20, paragraph 7, you wrote the following - the number of test deadlines is six, and the dates of maintenance of the test deadlines are determined by the statute of the higher education institution. The DSS believes that instead of a point it should stand and be said – with obligations being a January, June and September test deadline. My explanation will be very simple. When you came to the DSS parliamentary group to explain the law, one of the sentences that was very important to me was that this law, these amendments and additions actually went to the students, which is fine. Simply one way, one of the concessions of students to reach the bewitched number of this moment 48, and actually 60 points later, is the introduction of six test deadlines and our amendment came from that fact, but on the other hand we started from another fact, which is that actually colleges are very flexible and very creatively interpreting the existing Law on Education. I'm going to give you a few examples, and I'm going to ask you for a simple comment on this last one, because it's very important. A large group of students cited him as an example and asked for an answer from you. For example, it's a very creative interpretation of the deadlines of the students of master and doctoral studies. It is simply that many universities come from the fact that they are not interested in this and then set the same deadlines as for students of basic studies, or people have no opportunity to pass their exams within a certain deadline by 2010. In particular, it's a creative interpretation of the law when it comes to tuition and it's a really big problem. The last few years have been a growing problem, because many colleges that are actually out loud and are actually very wanted really without any shame raise that tuition to such a high level that it's just more unsustainable. At this point, only 12 of the University of Belgrade's 31st colleges kept their scholarships from last year, the rest raised their tuitions by 10%, justifying it by the fact that they are difficult times and that they do not receive material costs from the state, which is the obligation of the state and perhaps should be taken out of account. It just happens that citizens, or those who have children in college, pay for what the state won't do. What is particularly creative interpretation, I will read it – colleges switching from master's studies, so it's done according to the old system of study, doctoral scientific studies - the Bologna system, interprets it as a new enrollment in the first year of doctoral studies, instead of for example for the third year, and that happens even in cases where students have already given exams in master's studies or some have even reported master's work. Here, of course, the university interprets it as a transfer, because it's important for students to pay their tuition again, which of course is neither small nor easy to pay. What is also difficult to understand is, on the other hand, and very easy to understand, because students have been led to the situation that they are on deadlines in 2010 and that they had to pay that tuition, and that they simply accept the interpretation of the university, although many students think, I also think it's about enrolment, not transfer and that the tuition that is paid twice is illegal. These are some things that, because of such a creative way, we felt it was important for the university in its act to say which deadlines were examined and that the deadlines that we stated should be examined. So, January, June, September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42065	Two minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word has Minister of Education Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42066	We only prescribed the total number of points, and in the act of the university must be taxed on what deadlines they are. Then, if by chance there are attempts at manipulation and different interpretation, as you say, the creativity of the university, unfortunately, what is happening, then it's an obligation and it's our desire for students to tell us, to send us an educational inspection and apply the criminal provisions of this law, or to do what is in accordance with the law. The fact is, it is indeed a fact that the state owes colleges certain funds for material costs. Unfortunately, according to the Belgrade University, the former procurator dealing with these issues, the obligation dates back to 2002-2003 and amounts to several hundred million dinars. Unfortunately, we had one situation, it seems to me in 2007-2008, that on the basis of one oral order from the then minister each student who entered the year was put on the budget. Now we are trying, literally, to introduce a system and in relation to that system to see what the obligations of the state are, these hundred plus twenty percent and to make one projection of future developments and, of course, the possibilities of the budget. It is true that we are late with obligations for material costs, but which are the result of only the economic situation, not the absence of a desire in the Ministry of Education to solve some problems. It happened that some colleges of high school vocational studies charge students certain funds, although the government's conclusion was not to do so, because the state would pay its share of the money. I will also try to improve the state's budget situation after the work has been completed and according to this law and the Assembly, because it improves the state of the budget, the inflow is higher, so that by the start of the new school year we can pay off as much material resources as possible. When we pay most of the material costs, any reason to be honest, in this difficult economic situation, to increase the amount of tuition for students. We must share the fate of others, including colleges. Why? Because I hope colleges respect that situation. There are some who have money, and there are those who really don't have money. When I say they have money, there is a personal map of each university and higher education institution and a higher school of vocational studies that can be obtained in the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia and you can see exactly the revenues and expenditures. It's not the same situation in college. Last year, most universities and universities accepted the suggestion, then on a proposal from the minister, not to increase tuition. In this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, there is a provision, a solution where the Ministry and Government agree. We will not give consent to the cost of tuition, because not demagogue, to say, to prevent and protect students in that way, but because of what we've been saying from the beginning, we all have to share the same fate in difficult times. Why? Because we regularly service personal incomes. Regularly. If we regularly serve personal income and if employees in the public sector and education share the fate of all in the Republic of Serbia, then there is no reason for certain universities to raise the cost of tuition, explaining it by inflation costs or other reasons. Because if it were to go like that, anyone could make another decision. There is one practice, unfortunately, that we have seen, that when this issue is discussed at the level of the university there is agreement that the cost of tuition should not be increased. When the same colleagues go to college, the larger ones make different decisions. Of course, the address is Ministry and across the back of the students. And not only that, but also at these other costs that you spoke about directly or indirectly, that students are constantly exposed to some new costs related to the study regime. So let me just say and want some solutions for us to be precise. To be honest, we want the educational inspection to be far more present and to apply these measures to administrative oversight and criminal provisions in practice. Autonomy yes, but respect for the law is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42067	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42068	Simply, if I understand correctly, Mr. Minister, between these fine nuanced relations, between the ministry and on the other hand the colleges are collateral damage are citizens, who are also in a difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42069	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42070	No, you didn't get me right. The essence of politics and these governments and the Ministry is that students are not collateral damage, and that teachers do not act as someone who is not interested in the economic situation and who is not interested in the situation in society, but all of us share the fate of society together, so if they do not increase the wages of others, they do not increase people in education. If they don't increase and are regularly serviced, then they don't go over country minuses over the back of students. Minuse state needs to secure the state and there's responsible me, and my colleague Diana Dragutinovic, and the government, and the budget, not the students. That's our policy, not to be over the back of the students. But we have practice, always calling for autonomy, so you just can't pass exams until you pay for it. You can't get a degree until you've paid the same. And we have four men in an educational inspection, which is a shame to mention, and 130 colleges, and then we're not in a position to reach every side to the extent that we should apply the law. It's true, we don't pay in time, but I'm really honest not to you, I know that you understand that, but I'm also trying to explain it to the public, and we're going to increase it, and it's our intention to increase budget revenues, and we expect through these increased budget revenues that we're going to give now to try to solve the issue of heating five or six colleges in Belgrade or in Novi Sad or somewhere else, where the problems don't exist since yesterday and the day before. One more thing, it wasn't the tuition that came up almost, all of this is, to be honest, part of some of the problems that existed years ago, but they are seen or when the law is being discussed, like today, or when students go out into the streets, like last year, or when some group or some college promotes it publicly as a problem. We are solving the problem systemically, but I must admit that we do not have enough money for all those liabilities that have been re-established for years and that exist in time, but we are trying to increase the amount of money we spend each year for material costs, so that perhaps with the end of the economic crisis and with the expectation of a better economic situation in Serbia one day we can achieve this ideal situation to pay off really 100%.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42071	Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted the 20th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Education accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee did not report, so the National Assembly will declare itself on this amendment in the voting day. National MPs Nada Kolundžija, Dragoljub Micunovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 21st Amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milic Mihajlovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42072	Article 21 refers to professional academic and scientific names that receive persons who complete studies to a certain level and that amendment is a logical continuation of the amendments as Article 8a which I have previously explained. In fact, there it was proposed to introduce a master’s calling in professional studies, so in the variant that this amendment was accepted, then a change in Article 21(5) would be necessary, so he would read – a person who finished his professional master’s studies obtains the professional name of master, with the indication of the second degree of professional studies from the relevant area. But no matter what the amendment isn't accepted, I'd just say this is the area, i.e. the area of the Law on Higher Education where the most wandering and where the most confusion was in practice, because it simply happens that a student enters a certain school or college and practically until the last day of schooling does not know what his professional name will be. I'm sure this member and the near future will be the subject of some new changes and additions, because you only remember this calling masters as much as it's been unmistakable. Everyone interpreted it in their own way, so that in this variant it would be suggested that the person who acquired the master's title would write his name and last name, for example. Janko Jankovic, master. It's a cosmetic change, where the word "master" instead of "master" will stand behind the name and last name, and nothing essentially changes. Although some other things should be brought into line with these names, especially those who once graduated from school in the old system, so they want to continue their professional studies. They usually ask which degree you get, although the law doesn't know this, degree. This should be published in some way at the beginning of each school year, that the institution, when enrolling students, should also be the correct name in the calling contest that the student will acquire, in order to avoid all possible misunderstandings about these names.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42073	35 seconds of the authorized representative's time has been used. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42074	Dear Chairman, how much time left for the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42075	The Progressive Group of Serbia has remained five minutes and 35 seconds for the authorised representative and 10 minutes and 15 seconds for the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42076	We probably won't get all the amendments, so we can keep time for the parliamentary group for the upcoming amendment. We can say that this is the technical amendment in Article 21, which refers to the names of persons who have completed the relevant levels of academic studies, and we are purely technical, since it has been stated here in persons who have completed their primary academic studies, in the range of at least 180 ESP points, and then 240 ESP points, just so it might sound more consistent, we added that the person who completed the graduate academic studies highlights the academic name of the master with ENP points of at least 300. We know it's regulated in the law elsewhere, but we're clear, when these ENP points were mentioned here, one technical intervention, and we thought it was so correct and it would give consistency to attitudes, so I wouldn't get into much more of an explanation than this. For the other views of this member we have no objections, I repeat once again, this is purely an intervention to give consistency to previous positions. So that's why we intervened with this amendment. In the end, since we've been discussing here all afternoon, our MPs have been relatively little, but we've discussed and explained our amendments. We explain the amendments not only for the minister's sake, but also for the public. I must comment that I am pleased that the minister has been and actively participated in the interpretation and almost every amendment we have had an explanation for. Why do I say that? We had ministers staying here without comment or responding to the tenth or fifteenth amendment, and all ministers should act in such a way as to make it a real debate. Whether or not you like our argument or the minister, we are not discussing it, but it is the government's active involvement in the image of the minister, who should defend and explain why the amendment was rejected or accepted, and the public who hears it. I think it's a real congregation debate and that other ministers should be actively involved, because then we try to explain it differently, and it gives much more seriousness. That's what I wanted to comment on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42077	One minute was used by the MP's group. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42078	I'd say a small group of MPs, but chosen, we're fiercely defending our amendments. My colleague and I have submitted an amendment to Article 21. In fact, this Article 21 changes Article 95 of the existing Law on Higher Education, which is professional academic and scientific titles. I see other colleagues have intervened here, but I think my intervention is different. I will read a few views on persons who complete basic vocational studies, so from the existing law, which is that the person who completes the basic vocational studies obtains a professional name, with the indication of calling the first degree of professional studies from the relevant area. The sixth position that a person who completes the specialist vocational studies will receive a professional title – specialist, with an indication of the title of the second degree of professional studies from the relevant area. Our amendment is to add a new position, after the position 6, and that would be – that the person who finishes master of the professional study gets the professional title – the professional master of the relevant area. I have to admit, with the skepticism and the amendment, I didn't expect this amendment to be accepted. In response to why it was rejected, it states that it is not the matter of this proposal, namely these amendments and additions. Also, I know there have been different initiatives from both high-school and academy and students to do something about it. According to the current law, the student, or person, completes basic vocational studies, can then enroll and complete specialist studies, and there is the end. So, they don't have the possibility of going on, simply because this law didn't even predict it. So there's no high-level vocational school that can, because the law doesn't allow it to organize applied master studies. It's one of the shortcomings of the law that was passed in 2005. Several times the minister, at least my impression, may be mistaken, has been asked by such an evil DSS MP, and you are unhappy with the law that we passed in 2005, I suppose, alluding that we were then the ruling majority. But changing the law is no big deal. This law has been reform law, and it's been working for five years, and I'm surprised that there are no more proposed changes and additions, because I know that there are more problems in practice, and here you are announcing a new law. It's neither a shame nor a terrible thing. So DSS MPs know about many of the problems that are in practice and that this 2005 law should be amended. This is one of those problems. It was simply impossible for the existing law to organize a master, so-called master. Professional studies. In many European countries there are, I think there is this practice in Germany, and in France. What's going on with us, let's say that the citizens know, I know that the minister knows, right now there's about 50,000 students at vocational studies, let's say 285,000 people who graduated from higher schools. Practically, these people are kind of progressing in education by not having a master of professional studies kind of limited. What happens in practice, I don't know if the minister knows, that many of our students, in order to continue these masters of professional studies, for example, go to Montenegro because the Montenegrin law allows and they continue to study there. So, this amendment, I repeat, we didn't expect you to accept it, but at least somehow we draw attention to that problem, because a lot of students are affected by this problem. Maybe it's the subject of thinking about some future changes to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-17-0.u42079	We end today's work at 6 p.m. with the presentation of National MP Donka Banovic. The paper continues on Tuesday, June 22nd, at 10:00 p.m., with a debate on the details of the 3rd item of the agenda. The first amendment to be under investigation is an amendment to Article 23, which was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. a number of one-third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the Assembly is working on the basis of Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which means asking for information and explanations from the president, or from authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. Would one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235? Yeah. ) National MP Vlajko Senić.
