ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38887	In the past almost eight months, and especially in the past few months, one important issue has been raised in the public as well as among the MPs themselves, and this is why the construction stands, especially why the building of apartments in Belgrade stands? Everyone has a reason to explain it. The most interesting are the reasons that Minister Oliver Dulic himself, who proposed the Planning Act, adopted here on August 31st last year. As the most important thing I would point out when it comes to the law, it is the situation in which the construction industry is located. This April 14th, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Milovic, president of the Construction Workers' Union, says -- Serbia has lost about 50,000 construction workers, more than 20,000 are not receiving a salary, and 10,000 are receiving a minimum. In such an atmosphere, Minister Dulic is trying in every way to remove responsibility. It also gives an interview on April 14th in a daily list. There is one trait in humans, or one virtue that is very easy to break into a flaw, which is a tenacity that can easily turn into stubbornness. Mr. Dulic said there is no way and that he has no intention of changing the Planning Act, which is, above all, the main cause of which there is no building of apartments, which is why the construction industry is standing. Minister Dulic has called Belgrade's Department of Urbanism unemployed, and they have so far processed 2,000 requests for local permits. Unfortunately, they've issued only 85, and they haven't betrayed them to any major investor or any investor who wants to build a building, they're the ones who own their own country, who want to build their own houses on that existing plot. It is impossible to issue a location permit because I am the minister in that same interview says – of the 26 existing sublegal acts that were necessary, we did not bring 13. I need to ask Mr. Dulic two questions. The first question is, how do I think the law works, if it works, it has to be broken? Not wanting to be anyone's lawyer, we must note that these people, called by Minister Dulic to the unemployed, and also by the Belgrade Assembly itself, have come up with a Urbanist plan in less than two and a half months. It took him six months, or his ministry to approve the Urbanist plan. We've got a problem with Catastre too. In Belgrade, in Novi Sad, in other major cities, objects in the disaster are not processed for several months, and that's why it all stands. The other day, the minister tried to make a mess out of the dead, made a statement from the media, which is that anyone who gets a location permit can start building. Mr. Minister, there are laws to be respected. The location permit is not the only document that allows construction. If the minister doesn't know that, he'd have to turn to whoever he knows. We have one key question – if the law does not work, the building is standing, so we ask the question when will this law change? The other day Mr Dinkic was here, after six months he came with changes and additions to the law he proposed. I mean, I don't mean to brag about him, because it's not for the praise of anything like that, but the man confessed to a mistake and came here to change the law. We ask Mr. Dulic to change the law urgently because in this way people are left without a job, the state is left with no money left for this industry. So we expect an answer as soon as possible – when Minister Dulic thinks he can change the Planning Act, which would allow the construction industry to function? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38888	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic. Otherwise, it was authorized by the DSS parliamentary group, Vojislav Kostunica, to be a representative on behalf of it today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38889	I would like to ask the Minister of Telecommunications, on the one hand, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the other. Serbian citizens who watch this transmission, and those who do not, believe that they will soon hear much more about it, must know one thing, and the authorities of state institutions must answer what happened to phone subscribers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have received an account for March with an increase of 200 dinars, although we all know that Ratela's decision to increase the phone subscription by 200 dinars only since April 1st? What's going on? The government has a duty to answer how this could have happened at all. How could such a blow be made on the pocket of a telephone subscriber, or the citizens of Serbia, for what is this money intended and how is it possible that Ratela's decision has started earlier? Today, when refrigerators and bills of Serbian citizens are increasingly empty, hitting 200 dinars doesn't sound much, when we look like this, but when we know that several million phone subscribers are in Serbia, they need to know why the government and the state hit them in the pocket and for that. When it multiplys, it's a very large number, especially at this time when we know that Telecom is being sold, I hope we have the opportunity to talk about it. Personally, I consider the sale of Telecom to one of the major scandals that is happening to this government, perhaps the biggest. I hope we get a chance to talk about it. A citizen must know why he was deceived. This is a typical fraud by the government of the Republic of Serbia. If the decision was to increase the price of the subscription from April 1st, why did they notice in the March accounts that their subscription cost 200 dinars? Where's the money going? We know Telecom is the most profitable public enterprise.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38890	The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38891	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, Madam President, I am speaking to you and to Secretary General Veljak Odalovic, that, beyond the prescribed deadlines, I am not getting any answers from some ministers, so I will have to repeat them until I get those answers, because my experience is to be persistent. Namely, I asked the finance minister, and on the occasion of Comrade Sasa Tijanic's statement that he is one of those text messages, the people already know what I'm talking about, gambling games that were broadcast on so-called "The World of the World". The public service, which has since been the "yellow service" opened, that some 515 million dinars have been made. And Comrade Sasa Tijanic, who, the latest news, is hiding behind some conspiracy name - college, so in the coming minutes I'm going to ask who these people are, who is this college. He said he had invested in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Since some people were arrested in police action, the state authorities, on the charge that it was organised crime, while Comrade Sasa Tijanic said he had paid some of the funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget, my question was the finance minister – why were these funds not blocked? Part of the funds was also paid to the state lottery. Why aren't those funds blocked because these funds are being raised in a deceitful way? And in other actions when criminals are arrested, then their assets are blocked in accounts until there's a strong verdict. As for the phantom college, which we Serbian citizens don't know who's hiding behind that name, it would be nice if these people signed by name or last name, I'd ask them if they knew where the 400 million dinars of money they gave to the cheated citizens, to say, drawn up with messages from a public service, called and spent their money? Does this college know where this money is? Furthermore, I ask the college, which announced yesterday or yesterday with a shameful statement – when it will apologize to the citizens of Serbia for the unfeelingly fake campaign of the promotion, so-called. The swine flu at the Public Service and so frightened the citizens, that many bought various medicines, from "tamiflu" to 20-30 euros? Madam President, you're a doctor, it's mid-April today, and all those who first rolled their hand in front of Serbian citizens, and especially the health minister, said mid-April was the peak of the epidemic, when the most ill are predicted to be from that Mexican or swine flu. Nobody's mentioning it now. Those who were vaccinated were vaccinated, those who bought medications bought drugs and nothing. Do you think that we, as the people's representatives of the Serbian citizens, should remain silent here? Who's going to be responsible for that organized fraud? I don't want to talk about other media, private media. It's private media and they have their own editorial policy, but I want to talk about what happened. Publicly, it favours the European service, and in fact the "yellow service", because I am a citizen who pays a TV subscription, as I believe millions of Serbian citizens pay a TV subscription. After what he's doing, what he's doing. College, Madam President, I've heard of a word that I think is close to you, given the past of your party, the presidium and something like that. I don't know what this college means. Is that a set of people, editors, who are these people? Or is it a secret name for another Sasa Tijanic, who is really a coward then, that he can no longer sign the answers he sends me privately through people who work in the technique of filming this session, Madam President? I'm just going to quote you an answer to one question. I asked if it was true that she was the editor of the RTS Sandra Shusha entertainment program, and her own sister Ana Susha, editor of the music program? Listen, Serbian citizens and RTS employees, as some Stanislav Veljkovic, general secretary, responded, and this Tijanic appears to be missing. He says, "No person with that last name, male or female, works on RTS." (President: Time. Finish your sentence. ) So, I will propose to the Minister for Culture and Information that the bill on the payment of TV subscription, if not to be abolished, that 20% of that TV subscription remain local and regional television in the cities from which we come, because we will no longer suffer these lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38892	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm now in a dilemma whether it's harder when you don't get an answer or when you get an answer. Maybe you can help me solve this dilemma. I asked the National Bank – is it true that Luke "Belgrade" was 21,300,000 euros in December 2005? They respond that the Foreign Exchange Act found that residents, legal persons and entrepreneurs keep foreign exchange currency exchanges at the bank or sell them to that bank and say, "We inform you that the National Bank of Serbia does not have the data you are looking for." It's the highlight of insolence. Does the governor know the NBS Act, Article 64, where exactly what the rights of the NBS are? Despite a warning from the Anti-Corruption Council that the state was damaged by 21m euros in the privatisation of Luke "Belgrade", if it is true that there was this much money on Luke "Belgrade", then the amount doubles, and the NBS responds that there is no insight. Why didn't they ask for insight, because they're right? I can't ask the business banks where Luka "Belgrade" held foreign funds to see how much she had, but the NB can. Not only can she, but based on all this information she had an obligation to ask for that information, to make sure that that information was correct or not. This is one of the biggest robberies ever committed. Radovan Jelasic, who doesn't care, is gardening in that villa of one and a half million euros, although he came to Serbia with a plastic bag, unlike Bozidar Djelic, and to this day he didn't explain where he got the money from. It seems, gentlemen, based on the answers he's given to questions he's asked. I really insist, Mrs. Dejanovic, that my question be referred to the MUP to see if these data are correct. I cited in a previous address where all banks had foreign currency and finally found out what was true about the privatisation of Luke Belgrade. Especially now, I'm counting on you to have more hearing about these questions, and you're going to try to give answers, because I see that Milan Beko asked us yesterday to finally see what it is with Luke, and he wants to make sure that he's safe, I understand him, it's not easy for him. Please, come on, deliver the answers, let's see the company that privatized Luka Belgrade, let's see which firm it is. We know how much she had founding capital, so let's see where she got those 40m euros for Luka Belgrade? It's simple. Free Homen claims it's absolutely impossible to wash the money without leaving a trace. I totally agree with him. However, it also mentions some politicians who were in contact with the Saric clan, I am sure there are, except that you will selectively, about those who suit you, to those who need to put pressure there you will come out with names and last names, for some you may launch an investigation, but it will all end up in the old one – eaten by a wolf donkey and no one. I will not give up the requirement that all the facts related to Luka Belgrade and the company "News" be illuminated entirely. I ask that you force all the answers I asked for for both News and Luka Belgrade. We simply have to do everything we can to return the looted property to the citizens of Serbia, which has been robbed over the past 10 years. The SRS will insist on it and will do everything possible to get the looted property back.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38894	Mr Todorovic, I would like to remind you and other MPs that it is my business obligation that, if the answer to your questions asked by an individual or an institution does not arrive within a two-week period, that I always make an emergency. The content of the answer itself, of course, is that the Assembly has no instruments to influence. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38895	President-in-Office, I also referred to the Serbian government a question, as we could best ask Vojislav Kostunica, because he was Prime Minister at a time when Luka Belgrade was privatised, but I think the Serbian government should give an answer to what the government of Vojislav Kostunica did in the privatisation process of Luke Belgrade, and to answer the question, is it true that at a time when the government was selling state property over Luka Belgrade was in the account of so much money or was there not so much money? I simply want to support this initiative, believing that it is really important to see under what conditions the government has, while the president was Vojislav Kostunica, sold to Luke Belgrade and whether or not there really is, in order to remove any dilemma about it forever, whether there were abuses in the privatisation and whether there was political responsibility in the privatisation of the Prime Minister who, in the event you claim, sold to Luke Belgrade under criminal conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38896	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Momo Colakovic and Mladen Grujic. I also inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the meeting, in addition to the representatives of motionary Dragan Sutanovac, the defence minister, to attend Mr Dusan Spasojevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence and Zoran Jeftic, State Secretary in this ministry, as well as Milorad Peric, head of the defence ministry, whom I welcome. We move to a joint single search of the 22-30nd agenda: – PROPOSALS ON CONSERVATION OF THE INDUSTRY, SLOVENIA, SLOVENIA, PORTUGAL, GERMAN AND BIG BRITAIN (IRAQ, SPAIN, NORWAY, NORWAY, LAND, MAKEDONIA, SLOVENIA, PORTUGAL, GERMAN AND BRITAIN) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals of the law on the validation of international agreements and memorandas on understanding under points 22 to 30 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, as set out in Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours and that from that time Parliament's Group for European Serbia benefits - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Specular Group Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Salad group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by the SRS Zoran Krasic on these points of the agenda and no one has submitted such proposals anymore. In accordance with Article 152(2), Article 3, as referred to in Article 142(2), paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Iraq on Co-operation and Military Training for Iraqi Armed Forces; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on Co-operation in the area of Defence; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Co-operation in Defence; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Information in Defence; Proposal for a Law on Confirming Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Portugal on the Republic of Serbia's Security and the Republic of Serbia's Security. Does the proposing representative, Dragan Sutanovac, the defence minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38897	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you face practically nine international contracts signed by the Ministry of Defence over the past four years with nine countries, both the EU and the countries that are very important to us in the region, but also countries with which we have intensive military and economic co-operation. If we are talking about Serbia's top foreign policy priority today, European integration, I would like to stress that there is no foreign policy in the world that is not connected or closely related to the country's defence policy. Aware that unfortunately in the 1990s the defence policy was so bad that it participated in the violation and creation of a bad image of Serbia, we have launched a number of activities in recent years to practically restore the reputation of our army, not only in our country, but in the world. As a result of these agreements, the talks are, among other things, these nine international agreements that have been signed, which I consider to be very important, because in this way we strengthen our co-operation, I say again, primarily in the region, but also in co-operation with countries that are very influential and which have their very important decisions made within the EU. On the other hand, I believe that today, after, I say, a larger number of years, but very clearly for the past few years, we can be proud that our Ministry of Defence, or the Serbian Army, is recognised in the world and in the region as a very serious factor of stability. When we hear that the representative of the Council of Europe, Mr. Jaglan, says that Serbia today is one of the most important factors of stability in the Balkans and this region, be assured that this is because the reforms we are implementing in the defence system and because the contracts we are making in the defence system with the international community and with certain countries are bilaterally leading to this level to build a single trust that is now really growing into trust with friendship. I wouldn't single out any of these contracts, but I'm willing to answer every question and give an individual explanation as to why each contract is of particular importance to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38898	Do the officials of the committees want the word, the Defence and Security Committee, the Legislative Committee? Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38899	Dear Mr. Defence Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Republic of Serbia, under Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, is a state based on European principles and values. What is constant in these values is certainly the peace and stability of our continent, i.e. the European continent. So peace and stability are key words concerning not only the defence ministry, the Serbian Army, but also the entire Republic of Serbia and its institutions. It is these nine bilateral agreements, or nine ratifications ahead of us, that confirm that the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army and the Republic of Serbia are now implementing these principles that are based not only on our constitution but also on relevant European documents in this area. So it's about nine agreements or memos, or ratifications of these documents that represent the legal framework of our country's co-operation, i.e. the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army in the area of defence. If we sublime the essence of all of these nine ratifications, we could narrow them down to a few keywords. These are defence and security policies, based on the principles of sovereignty, mutual respect and understanding, defence planning as a very important segment in these areas. What is also important to point out is democratic control of the armed forces, control of defence and disarmament, military-science and military-technical co-operation, which is otherwise in the last two years in extreme momentum, defence legislation, peace and humanitarian operations and other forms of co-operation. The positioning of the Serbian Army and the positioning of the Republic of Serbia not only in the region, but throughout Europe, the ratification of these agreements and the memorandum will certainly be strengthened. What has been done so far in the area of defence can be called a revolutionary reform by our not only armed forces, but by the overall defence system of the Republic of Serbia, and precisely these agreements and memos that parliament is to ratify, or confirm these laws, will certainly contribute to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38900	Did the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Jadranka Vukovic, Branimir Djokic and Dragan Todorovic, who at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, set out their opinion on all the draft laws in this joint single search, want to explain their own opinion? Yeah. ) Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38901	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is absolutely opposed to the ratification of the agreement that has been proposed today, except for the agreement proposed with the Government of the Kingdom of Spain because of the fact that they were the only ones who did not recognise the so-called. The Shiptar State of Kosovo. Mr. Sutanovac, I'll stick to one of the agreements. That is why, as an MP on behalf of our parliamentary group, I have singled out an opinion, contrary to the committee that voted differently. It is a ratification of the Agreement with the Republic of Slovenia. The Holmec case is only one in a series of tragic events that took place in JNA in 1991, and I think only 15 days after the shameful declaration, to the insistence of Jelko Kacin, who from Cankar's home in 1991 was a spokesman for Janez Janša and his territorialists, who killed Serb officers and soldiers, it is a shame and an additional disgrace for our country to sign an agreement with the country that first went to war against peace, with the support of the United States and the Western forces, the killing of the SFRY, the killing of more than 40 soldiers and officers of our JNA at the time. That is the case, the brochure published by the people's army that same year describes the tragic injuries under Janša's bestial hordes and the murder of Serb soldiers. I'm just gonna stick to some of the examples of reminders, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in voting day, question your conscience. After almost 20 years, Slovenia has not only been rewarded for this crime and for everything they have done financially using Serbia and its citizens, existing once in the common state, but also not only the Kacin, but also their other officials are moving further into their opportunities for the EU and Brussels officials to put pressure on our country and our people. When you say in some points here – you will cooperate in defence of military security, all for the sake of peace in the region, explain to me – how it will help Slovenia so-called. peace in the region in a situation where the southern Serbian province is occupied by NATO forces, those of the same NATO forces that destroyed the Iraqi people and the Iraqi state, suspended the possibility that the people would decide there alone without the role of America? When it comes to the agreement, is it the agreement of the Republic of Serbia with the Allied forces or the United States occupation forces in Iraq? I don't see how we could cooperate with anyone. As for the truth about these murders and the armed attack by Janša's territorialists, so-called. Members of the then MUP of Serb soldiers and officers, I will remind you of several examples. Major Danil Radovanovic's tank unit arrived on June 27th at Brnik Airport. Three or four territorialists and the special forces of the Slovenian militia continuously attacked this form of JNA at the time by letting civilians who insulted, throwing stones and other objects in front of them. Behind civilians are territorialists with rocket launchers from which they fired at tanks. Realising that the soldiers would not put their weapons on civilians, the territorialists abused and destroyed a tank. In the attacks on the JNA unit, a soldier was wounded who needed medical attention. He was placed in a transporter with weapons removed and a white flag placed. During the attack on a military unit at Brnik Airport, Mr. Sutanovac, Slovenian territorialists used journalists as cover. You remember that they were sheltered by some Austrian media representatives, with some journalists also killed. Customs officer Miki Bogdanovic, who was transferred from the Bulgarian border to the Rosna Valley border crossing, who was captured, but with another colleague, managed to free himself, took refuge in a barracks near Nova Gorica, where they witnessed the insidious attacks on the territory. The ceasefire was in force, and bread came to the barracks, and three elders and two soldiers went to fetch it. When the soldiers picked up the crates, the Yasha territorialists from behind opened fire on them. Two officers are seriously injured and one is easier. None of our soldiers had guns on them. At the end of June, on one road, a column of a vehicle led by a captain (President: Time. I end up, first-class Dragan Blagojevic, came across barricades and stopped herself, and the worst was the crime when Private Milan Tanaskovic, who was on guard at the JNA warehouse, was called by this so-called. The territorialist, the criminal, approached to light a cigarette, lived to get this guy three shots in his head and kill him.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38902	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a proposal from the Department of Defense at nine points, which, by a memorandum, which agreement, there is really one serious problem and a dilemma that we would have to resolve. By listening to the president of the Legislative Committee on which these agreements and memoranda are based, I do have a serious dilemma, because it is said, first of all, that these memoranda and agreements take care of one thing, and I think that this is the most important thing, and that is the sovereignty of both our countries and the states with which we sign these agreements. Of these nine proposed, eight states are the ones that have recognised KIM. Now I really don't know how it's possible that we based on these principles, and sovereignty should be one of the most important principles we can sign with these countries. What is this message to other countries in the world for whose support we are struggling not to accept the recognition of KIM independence? If we act this way, they confess, and we sign agreements with them. What kind of state are we? See how normal states behave? What they do to preserve their integrity, integrity, dignity. Look what Turkey's doing. Although America is the most important partner, both military and economic, in every respect, it has not thought for a second, the moment it concluded that the damage and insult of Turkey had been done by America, it immediately withdrew its ambassador from New York. What are we doing? We're turning not only the other cheek, but we're letting them do whatever they want from us and this is inadmissible. Especially given some of the countries we're signing this agreement with. I'll also take a special look at Slovenia. What reason does Serbia have to sign anything with Slovenia? What else do they have to do to us, so you can finally realize that we can't have any relationship with Slovenia? Do I need to remind you of the Vervain wing? Do you know where that first came out? In 1914, in Slovenia. From 1945 to 1995, none of the Slovenes knew the Serbian language, and by 2000 they all learned. As soon as DOS came to power, everyone learned Serbian and came as leeches to suck out everything they could and we don't care. We should all sign agreements, because it's supposed to contribute to the peace, stability and preservation of our country's sovereignty. In what way? How is that possible? Let me remind you of 1987, Cankar's home. Do you remember the ferocity of the Shyptarian separatists who were then called "eredents"? The president of the Yugoslav Union, at the time of Joza Smola, who then declared that they were fighting for their rights? Since then, they have done all they can to make Serbia the hardest possible blow. Should I tell you about what the Slovenian instructors were doing on KIM? That's what you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, should know. We're going through all of this. What are those reasons? Because we absolutely have no sense of responsibility for our own country, for what is the interest of our country. Our country's interest is to preserve the sovereignty of our country, to prevent the adoption of KIM independence. With this agreement, we will encourage other countries to recognise the independence of KIM, because they will realise that Serbia, not only will there not be any protests, but that it will go beyond that without any problem and that they will be able to co-operate as they will and as it suits them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38904	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go. What's the occasion?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38905	Right on the line. I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38906	Right to the replica? The DOS is mentioned, yes, you mentioned. Mr. Todorovic agrees that he gave the cause for replication. There is no reason for any objections from the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38907	When today, in 2010, we listen to fundamental elements of politics that in the last decade of the 20th century have destroyed everything that Serbia has been, and has destroyed the state, then it is clear to us that we cannot expect an understanding of the changes that happened in the meantime, nor can we expect an understanding of the world in which we live on that side. The sense of responsibility for the state implies that you take care of the interests of the state, strengthen its international position, and thus defend sovereignty and territorial integrity, that by looking for allies around the world you achieve your goals, not arguing with the whole world, not fighting against the whole world. In that sense, we can say that this policy that builds bridges and co-operation with the world is a policy in the best interests of Serbian citizens and in the best interest of security when it comes to the country. Since there is no doubt, sovereignty, the defence of sovereignty in a fundamental sense depends on the country's position and on whether the country has allies for its policy or not. To spread enmity towards countries is a policy which, unfortunately, we have had a huge and difficult experience of what results it brings. I am just pleased to believe that Serbia will never again be in a position to lead those who only sow impatience, to seek reasons for non-cooperation, to seek enemies everywhere in the world, even in the country itself, and to believe that they can do anything good for their country and, in particular, cannot do good for their citizens. What can be obvious is that they achieve a better position for themselves in an unfortunate country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38908	Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38909	I'm extremely pleased that I haven't heard a single complaint about the contracts themselves. There is one conflict of opinion here regarding the system of values, the valuable orientations of MPs and us working at the Ministry of Defence. I have to say, if we go into analysis since 1914, so to speak, or 1389, then to that end, I'm afraid Serbia would never sign any agreements with anyone. It's naive to believe that we should define ourselves as the past that was long after us. As a descendant of a warrior who lost his life at Cera, as a descendant of a man who was burned in a church beneath the Bath, I am very well aware that if I call only on that past, my children will not have a future. The basic reason for signing these agreements is that this past doesn't happen again, that it never happens again. That is why we are signing agreements in the region, otherwise they would only sign agreements with countries far outside the region because we were not in conflict with them, although Montenegro was in conflict with Japan. You managed to get us out of the UN with your policy. So, in the 1990s, which you said was DOS in power, you said the Slovenians were then speaking Serbian, were outside the UN. Was there another modern and modern people in the world outside the UN, like when you led Serbia? What I want to point out, and I am concerned about such a relationship, is a criticism that goes towards demeaning the Iraqi government, the Iraqi people and telling us that this people and that government are not democratically elected to the elections held on several occasions in Iraq. I would especially like to stress that it is regrettable that this comes from someone who is from central Serbia, where a large part of the business activity has been initiated thanks to agreements in the area of defence with the country, where many people live today thanks to the jobs that we have done in the field of defence with Iraq. With the greatest respect of the Iraqi people, which is going through a difficult period, I would like to say that there is a democratic government there that is elected in the elections and has and has had sympathy for Serbia, even in the most difficult times and has also not recognised the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Please try to turn to the future. Please try to see what will benefit your children's benefits and benefits, what will be the benefits and benefits of those who are yet to be born. My deep belief is that with such agreements and this is only part of the agreement, believe me, we signed them over 40, among other things with Cyprus, China, Turkey, with a large number of countries in the world, it will come all to ratification, to try to see what interest your local self-government, your city, this Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and to find first of all something good in that, and to criticise not in principle, starting in 1914, but to say what at this point you suggest that it should be done, or whether you really think Serbia should be trained and re-exposed from the UN and to act as an autistic man who does not know where it is going, or where it will come. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38910	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Free Maras is advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38911	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Minister, I will now explain to you why we are advertising the Rules of Procedure, because, Madam President, you did not react at the moment when one of the representatives of the SRS, who has issued an opinion, in a very harsh way, threatened the dignity of this assembly, speaking of the representative of the European Parliament for Serbia, Mr Jelko Kacin. We expect you to react in such cases and is fully in agreement with what Mrs. Kolundzhia and Mr. Minister both said. We also want to tell this parliamentary group that we can't wage wars all the time, even verbally, that we have to work with the region, that those in that region are the most successful, which is the state of Slovenia, should be our role model and we can't choose friends because they can drink more vodka than we do brandy. So we must turn to those who are more successful than us, not to insult the man who comes to this Parliament with good intentions. It's true, he said -- a ladder, gentlemen of the SRS. You represent the still inseparable part of the stand, as most here do, Serbia is Kosovo. It is in the Constitution that you have voted and in the Constitution that we all try to respect. Serbs-Montenegro live in that Kosovo, but the majority of the people are Albanians. When he said hello in Albanian, he didn't mean to insult anyone, but only to tell us what attitude he has and especially to explain to you that if, as Mr. Konstantinovic says, in the day you go to Slovenia to see how the Slovenian Parliament works, I think it is untasty five days before that to bring down the trees and stones and insult them and those to whom you go and the entire Slovenian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38912	The usual rhetoric of individual parliamentary groups would require that, practically after the participation of each individual, I comment on what it is that is consistent with dignity. That's why I ask the MPs to take care of it themselves. Mr. Todorovic, you wanted a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, interestingly, if we want to deal with some of the people's wisdom, there's another one that says - one who doesn't know his past and doesn't learn lessons from the past, has no future. Here I asked some principled questions, which agreements and memos that are signed say on one basic principle, it is a matter of sovereignty, so I asked you a question -- how is this principle respected, if we sign with countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence and Metohija? Would Spain do that if someone confessed to Baskia? Or some other country? Let's just say, France, if someone were to confess to Corsica? Not to make other examples. Come on, put yourselves in their position, and see if they would be for peace, war, or whatever you say? There is another thing I am amazed at, Mrs Dejanovic, that you have not responded. They're accusing us of the 1990s, from 1990 to 2000, because as far as the SRS is concerned, we're still staying in all the positions we've been in and we're not going to change. It's the ideology of Serbian nationalism. I'm amazed by one thing, how can those who transfer to politics by 2000 with the same team, who, at least a little more than us, have created that policy, be in a coalition now? Some things can't really roll. Since you're not ashamed, aman, that you're calling someone back in the '90s, and now you're with them in the coalition, and they're great coalition partners. I don't mind, but at least shut up, at least don't expose yourself like this to the citizens of Serbia. So now it's your interest to be with the SPS and now – turkey dots don't work. One of the ministers holds a picture of Slobodan Milosevic and I congratulate him on it, it's an honor. It is one of the few that did not give up Slobodan Milosevic. And now you're getting your ass kicked. She can't do that, Mrs. Kolundjia. You have to be principled. It's not principled just what's useful. It's your only principle in politics. If it's useful to you, it's principled and nothing more than that. It just shows that you absolutely have no limits when it comes to conquering and surviving in power, you'll get over it, you're not interested in anything. At the end of the line, this new coalition is now the complete eighth session, the part that was replaced and the one that won. Now you apologized and now it's nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38914	Time, thank you. Mr Todorovic, I would just like to comment that the MPs, Serbian citizens, have the right to assess how badly anyone participates in the wrong way at all times in the development of our country. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I always stand for it.) Mr. Sutanovac, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38915	When I was talking about the 1990s, I was talking about a party that had the largest number of ministers and vice-presidents of the government as part of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It wasn't the SPS, it was the SRS, which had half the ministers in the same government, and on the other hand it was the SPS-JUL coalition, so you, the radical, were more than the SPS. When we talk about principled politics, because people don't remember, a lot of things happen in our country and things happen quickly, I just heard criticism about how the occupation forces are in Iraq, etc. In 1991, the first Gulf War, a demonstration in front of the US Embassy in Belgrade, led by Duke Vojislav Seselj, who brought some of you as volunteers to fight against Saddam Hussein. Is that true? Of course it's true, we all remember that, but they're the only ones who forgot. When we talk about principle, what is it that is principled if in the First Gulf War you supported the fight against Saddam Hussein, and today you say that the democratic people who chose their government in Iraq are not democratic? Don't say anything you've changed. Say, "We've changed politics, and now we think so." I didn't agree with your policy then, I won't agree now, but be public and tell me what's true. Don't put some things in our mouths that aren't true. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38916	You have no right to a replica. This was the answer to what you were talking about. Now as president of the parliamentary group, you will have the opportunity to take part in the debate. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38917	I appeal to Article 104, Madam President, and I would ask you to have the same arches when it comes to Members of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As for objections related to the 1990s and principles, we absolutely acknowledge that then SRS Secretary General Aleksandar Stefanovic went to the US Embassy and offered volunteers for the Gulf War. I admit that the good part of the world was completely misinformed and deceived when it came to Iraq, as it was during the new invasion, when, too, a good part of the world was deceived that there was supposed to be weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, so they destroyed that country completely. I admit that when we realized these facts that we were directly in conversation with the Iraqis, with Saddam Hussein, that Vojislav Seselj had completely cleared the issue and that we had never had a dilemma about it again. Mr. Sutanovac, this isn't about our volunteer offer at the time, it's about the fact that from 1990 to 2000 the SPS was the bearer of government in Serbia, that it was the creator of politics. We went into conflict with the SPS or supported them. We entered conflict when we felt he was not protecting the interests of Serbia and Serbia's citizens, or the SRJ then. It was our basic motive and then and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38918	Thank you. You've abused the Bureau's breach institute. You spoke the contents of the replica you intended. Please take care of that. I'll be obliged to apply the terms of the Rules of Procedure. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Krasic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38919	Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, please pay attention at the beginning of how this debate today will go, and I recommend to the viewers that everyone can watch this program. There's no "14", "18", "20" years. It is desirable that everyone, especially young, 18 to 27 years of age today, follow this session to realize that they should love their homeland, love their people, love their armies, need to respond as much as possible to recruiting calls, because they also show that they love their parents, their grandfathers, their past, and that they are thinking about their future. Now I'm going to give one personal experience to all those who are my age. I'm 56 years old when I was a kid and when we were playing outside the building, no one wanted to be German, but wanted to be partisan. It was an ideological year, but since 1991, the partisans have become Chetniks. Today when you're playing, kids, don't be a NATO man, but be a Serb volunteer or a Chet. Have your judgment of value according to your past. That's very important. It's a system of values. It's not patriotism, it's white Schengen, that I travel around the world, as someone once said, but love my country. We don't have a spare, we don't have two citizenships. We will, we will not, we must love this country and this Serbia. There's no better way than this. All we have to do is take care of a government that doesn't care. And you know, when they talk about the ugly past in the 1990s, they try to throw some ash or some fog up. They were in power. Milan Panic belonged to that bloc. Remember who was the first information minister in the federal government, who was Momcilo Grubac, who was Ilija Djukic. Remember who held the local government in Belgrade in continuity. Now someone's attacking the SPS, and he was a member of the SPS at the time. I can understand that the SPS must be silent right now, but you can't make that kind of inversion. Serbia's Radical Party and Vojislav Seselj were mostly in prison during those crisis moments because they opposed such a policy, a policy where they are unreservedly believed in the West. Remember also when you came in 2000 that you said continuity and continuity compared to JNA, the Yugoslav Army is our army today. There's no need to give it up. Our disagreement with these bill proposals basically has what I listed. First, a lack of elemental patriotism, a lack of will to preserve our authentic system of values. We have nothing to be ashamed of, we just have to be proud of. JNA was a major military force many thought about destroying. It was the concept of breaking the former SFRY. Of course, some took part in that breaking. That's what Miss Jovanovic and Mr Todorovic were talking about. They've made dry facts, but you don't even want to accept them, you want to paint them in your own way. Of course, the army, the defense is changing. Tacticals, strategies, everything in the world changes. It's supposed to be followed. You saw for yourself, in '99, it was a computer war. The agresors had small casualties - two or three soldiers, two or three planes, with us two and a half thousand to 3,000 victims, mostly civilians. Our trial against NATO is negative. We're in a conglomerate called the Partnership for Peace. And Russia is in one special status of the NATO-Russia Council. For a year and a half, they had no contact because NATO attacked Russia because of the situation in Georgia. Now they've restored those relationships. Great Russia can do that. How are we supposed to behave? Sixty-six countries have recognised Kosovo's independence. State policy, and it keeps telling the President of the Republic that he won't admit, that he won't sign. How to enter some contractual relations, and every contract of this kind is a contract and a friendship with those who allow our territory to be torn and questioned, Mr Ratkovic, Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? What's an act of violation of sovereignty and territorial integrity if not, someone helping someone take away your territory, and you're drinking coffee with it? Can a normal man drink coffee with someone who killed his child – he can't? They're gonna put that coffee down. For years, you know, 90 and some years when the German ambassador came to Berlin, asked him what it was like, and he said it's not bad, but also the children on the street - Germans and partisans, the rest. It's early for these things you're thinking about. Too early. We cry out for truth and for justice. And if we don't fight every step of the way for truth and justice, and why would anyone support us? How will these countries, which in the International Court of Justice in The Hague, take a stand against Kosovo's independence, believe us if we are really that serious, when we run into the arms of those who take us and help us steal? Slovenia has been preparing for years the civil and military structures of an independent Kosovo. The NATO Pact is preparing special forces in Kosovo and Metohija, two and a half thousand soldiers, 800 reservers. Which is why it prepares them -- to be a security force when NATO retreats. Now at ten thousand, in a few years, they're a candle and they're only two and a half thousand soldiers. So, it's a state, a new state is being built on our territory. That's what the Constitution says, that's what the citizens said at the referendum, that's what they all say here in the National Assembly, and they have to talk about it, regardless of the court's worth. Now look, the agreement you're proposing with Portugal, and Portugal is the founder of the NATO Pact in 1949, and NATO is stealing our pact from Kosovo and Metohija. The next country, the Kingdom of Norway, is the founder of the NATO Pact and has a special responsibility in front of the NATO Pact to get closer to our armed forces to make NATO as much as possible. You remember that lady who used to be assistant minister, now she's some sports minister. The advantage is that he knows Norwegian. The next country is the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the founders of the NATO Pact in 1949. Now look at Germany, in 1955 it entered the NATO Pact, and in 1990 as a unique Germany. The next is Spain, since 1982 in the NATO Pact. Since 2004, Slovenia has been a NATO pact member, or Bulgaria in the NATO Pact, and Macedonia has been in partnership for peace since 1994, and we are talking today about the NATO Pact, regardless of its emerging form, not to bother you with the information about how this partnership for peace is going. What does he want to show us power anyway? That it is open to co-operation, that it wants to make agreements first and foremost with countries in the region, because these agreements are supposed to guarantee peace and they are at the same time fighting for sovereignty and territorial integrity, they want to send at the same time, and now we have four states of peace missions within the UN, which is three more. Interesting are our Military Academy and VMA, scientific and technical co-operation and this other, etc. There will be a condition for future officers to know foreign languages, probably by NATO standards they will have to English and French or just English, it doesn't matter. Puj dots – no, finished work – washable, beautiful, Eurofanatic, desirable, desirable to fall into oblivion of what happened in 1999, to fall into the memory of our victim. We pretend there is no The Hague tribunal, and the UN tribunal is under trial, Mr Sutanovac, against all Serb forces, headed by JNA. They answer to this transformation, to praise you for your release – criminal JNA. That's what they say in The Hague, that's not mine, that's what it says in every indictment, and you follow that policy. As KIM slowly slips, so are these other things – who has the money and wants to come to Serbia he is desirable. Slovenians are desirable, Saric is desirable, Cane is desirable – go ahead, go ahead, go ahead. Where's the pride in that? Where's the dignity? Where are our interests? It is possible tomorrow in the framework of the Partnership for Peace or in another system to bring power before the final act – that it is necessary to carry out, let's say, some kind of mobilization, the security of some forces that would go to Russia. This now seems scientific fictional – it really works scientifically, since both Russia and America are talking about this strategic partnership, etc. Such opportunities should never be ruled out. We endure 20 years of great sanctions as a people. Why? Because we are of Slovenian origin, because we are treated as traditional friends of Russia. We're in this so-called. the third degree of Russian strategic interest. You know, it's always gonna be like that, and this people and this country always get hurt, when politicians who run the country or make politics believe in everything that comes from the West. Slobodan Milosevic also trusted the West, so he became a factor of peace from the Balkan butcher, so by order of the West, he made a border on the Drina, so he arrested the national opposition here not to bother him. I remember when Mile Ilic proposed him for the Nobel Peace Prize – then after three years West arrested Milosevic, tried him and tried everyone over him. Don't trust the West. How can you trust those who bombed us? Here is the US Ambassador to Pristina, meaning the US ambassador to the independent state of Kosovo, as they say, two days ago he gave a lecture, Mr Sutanovac, to the complete government of the Republic of Serbia -- forget the court dispute, an advisory opinion; forget that a new round of talks follows, Kosovo is independent and accept it as a neighbour and develop good neighbourly relations. That when they launder drug money through Raiffeisen Bank in Pristina, it goes through Vienna and ends in Belgrade. You have nothing to do with it, I know that, but I'm telling you what the strategic interests of some of us, who are supposed to be friends with us, until they show that friendship in part – they show that friendship. I don't need to fight with the whole world. This should all go away. It's too early for the agenda. We need to clear up some relationships with each other. In the people the saying says: clean bill, long love. To move forward – priority co-operation and friendship with countries that do not recognise independent Kosovo, which do not recognise, because it is state policy, please excuse me. That's what the Constitution says. That's the story of the President of the Republic, the president of the DS and you from the party should listen to your president. Maybe because of you, he's running abroad, he can't enter the country here? Because every village, every village, makes its own policy, and it knows what state policy is - territorial integrity, sovereignty, preferably as best life as possible for the citizens of Serbia, and then catch connections with abroad. But no, you confused priorities like the one with the flute, so the whistle turned and what was the ninth became the first hole – it can't do that. Our problems as a party, as an SRS, are exactly what we tell you in time what needs to be done. You, Mr. Sutanovac, can call on Vojislav Seselj and Ata Stefanovic, and Saddam Hussein. You can also say that in 2000, we pushed through that friendship agreement with Russia here, so you attacked us and what you didn't do. You can also take 1995 when Milosevic, when you put his shoes here, remember – the performance of "the shoes for the president". We can talk all that, but where's the future, Mr. Sutanovac? We are aware of the need for transformation, modernisation, that is, we are aware of it, but the road – the road is not good, the road does not look at the state priority, it does not look at the priorities of our citizens. It's our public – what's a system of values? Is this where it gets promoted - forget the state, forget patriotism, forget the obligations, forget this, etc.? How much more of that? One thing at a time is forgotten. Where did we come from? Economic crisis, social misery, organized crime. A year ago, we talked to you about this organized crime, you laughed at us here, you applauded someone when he said you were fantasizing, conspiracy theory. Now Tadic has a conspiracy theory, too, I guess. So, when we say, that's conspiracy theory, and when you guys repeat our words a few months later, that's fine. Okay, so be it, but take your words seriously, take this situation seriously. It is a non-serious state, if before The Hague it is fighting for a square centimetre of its territory with a lot of rights, to then run, to have good friendly relations with those who have recognised an independent Kosovo without reading to you those who have bombed. Let me tell you one thing. You remember that in 1999 a procedure against the NATO pact was launched, four points of the process were. The fourth final point was the charges of genocide, the use of force unlawfully, etc. The first countries to fail were Spain and the United States. Do you know why? Because when they ratified the genocide convention, they put it in reserve so they couldn't be tried. We now refer to this International Court of Justice. From case to case, the legal position is changing, but it always forms such an attitude to be at Serbia's expense. Why? They decided to crush us both culturally and economically, etc. See what pressures they're making towards Republika Srpska to disappear. They're destroying the Serbian concept in Montenegro. That's all you have to say. Maybe you don't like it, maybe it doesn't fit, maybe these two of us who are in Brussels should demonstrate a great friendship, but they're spying on the NATO Pact and they're delivering data, forget it, please, that. Forget you can outplay with the West in a game like that. What the West understands, it's just a clear, precise political attitude. Our political stance, we're not offensives, we're guarding our own, but we have to say what our political position is, what is this people's political position. The political stance of this people also stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Get rid of these smoke bombs, what happened in 1990, 1991, etc. Nothing is true of what was respected by Serbia and JNA, nothing is true. In The Hague, it has been proven that nothing is true. That's another thing. You know why. But don't bury yourself. This is all coming back like a boomerang. In the next stage when we're being squeezed, they're going to call on what you voted for most with 126. These laws are just an example. The most elegant thing is to withdraw these points of the agenda, these laws. You also have some agreements and contracts from 2006, so nothing was wrong with your conclusion in 2006, so it wasn't ratified in 2007, 2008, 2009, but it was given in 2010. Pull and say we're still in positions that are KIM's priority. Don't send a message -- that's a second priority, and the first priority is the EU that needs to give us money to survive, because that's the message you're giving.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38920	Are any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you first of all that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search of the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: LDP, SRS and SES. In the meantime, we've got SNS. I give my word to the MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38921	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, we've heard very difficult views in the previous presentations. Some were decorated with pragmatism, some by patriotism. Minister Sutanovac explained with a few conventional sentences some segments of the nature of these contracts that are otherwise with the NATO pact member states. The colleague of the Legislative Committee spoke of European values, of categories that can be classified in terms of peace and stability. No one talked about the geostrategic and geopolitical features of the place where Serbia is located and the moment in which Serbia is located. No one spoke about the NATO environment, and no one mentioned the general known fact that there is no bipolar world and that balancing with neutrality is an unacceptable and irresponsible category for a small state such as Serbia. So I'm not going to make any conclusions, they're absolutely clear to those who are staring at them and those who know them, and they don't want to tell them in public, but I'm going to ask some questions. I'd like to get answers to them. First of all, why is NATO's need for a NATO pact hidden behind the demagogues of neutrality, wrapped in bilateral agreements with the NATO Pact countries? Why is the geostrategic position of Serbia not clearly presented to the Serbian public, which unequivocally results in the need to join the NATO Pact? Why is the economic benefits of NATO's commitment to the pact incriminatingly silent in Serbia? What is the logic of the loathsome efforts of countries in the environment, so neighbouring countries in the near past, to enter NATO, and Serbia shyly refuses to knock on the already open door? So these are the questions I would like to get answers to as a representative of the LDP. Finally, I would conclude my exposure to the conclusion that patriotism is an emotion, and in Serbia very often it is a demagogy, and that state-leaving is a reality and one very, very serious business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38922	Mrs. Veronica Radeta has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking today about proposals from nine laws confirming contracts between the governments of some states and the Republic of Serbia on co-operation in the area of defence. Why did I tell some states? Not to read all nine because it's a waste of time, and because the minister said it's about countries that are very important to us. It would really be nice for the public to explain to us that these are very important countries that have recognised Kosovo as an independent state. We Serbian radicals think, however, that is also in the Constitution, that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. It's unacceptable for anyone to hide behind some floscules, and we're being transferred to use something like that when we're talking about patriotism. For us patriotism is love for your people and for your country, and not just for us, but it's simply a definition of patriotism. Now it's a question of who accepts, who feels like a patriot, and who thinks he's not in, that it's not popular in some modern world to be a patriot today. We Serbian radicals were, that's what we are, and that's what we'll always be and we're proud of it. After all, the ideology of Serbian nationalism is the basis for the formation and existence of the SRS. I don't really know why it bothers anyone that Slovenia is particularly singled out here like our neighbouring country used to. Why is the problem when we talk about Slovenia and when we mention the name Jelka Kacina, as a man, as well as the state and policy it represents, which are the open enemies of the Serbian state. The fact that he is coming here and receiving him at different levels is again a matter of this policy and this authority which, when it comes to sovereignty and territorial integrity, obviously does not respect the Constitution, because if you respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then you will not think of a friend who supports 15% of Serbia's territory as being under someone's command, not in the Republic of Serbia. So it's very simple and every citizen of our country understands. You probably understand what you're saying the opposite of what the Constitution says, but I guess that's the kind of policy of this government, a policy that, unfortunately, is not in the interest of Serbian citizens and is not in the interest of the Serbian state. Minister, you tell us, please, that's what you said, please, to turn to the future. Of course, we Serbian radicals want this country and this nation to have a bright future, but there is no reason why any of us would accept to rip out our grandfather's branch from our family tree. And that's what we're different about. You are fully openly representing what is not even the official position of other state authorities, co-operation with NATO. Even, of course, you speak openly that Serbia should become a NATO member. He said to his colleague Krasic, it's too early to think about it and all these co-operations that you're offering us, because if you're asking this people to forget their past, and you're looking for it, then I'm asking you if you think it's possible that people can forget something that's happening now, which is KIM? Can he forget something that was ten years ago, which is NATO's aggression against Serbia and the citizens of Serbia and all those sacrifices that are very fresh? Let's not go back to the '90s you're talking about. Of course, you're about the '90s, so-called. In the '90s, you've been speaking in a different way, but it's very dangerous what you as DOS have done in this government and how you want to do it, and I'm going to talk about it in particular, how you are making every effort to keep Serbs definitely written down as a criminal and genocide people. That is, unfortunately, what is hiding in your co-operation with The Hague tribunal and your story that we are the hostages of Ratko Mladic, etc. Of course it has nothing to do with what's the point. Maybe one of you doesn't even know what he's doing, you may not understand your mentors well, but maybe they're telling you a different story, so you're not able to read between the lines. You must be aware, the citizens of Serbia and how they are aware, that the entire military summit of the Yugoslav People's Army, then the Yugoslav Army, is in The Hague. You are proud to say how many Serbs are in The Hague and you are satisfied with the UN tribunal's decisions, you do not care how many hundreds of years of prisons are being told to Serbs in The Hague. You're fulfilling what the Western forces are asking you to do and you think it's a good thing. The military and state summit of Serbia in The Hague tribunal, and what Krasic said in each Hague indictment, says that Serbian forces are responsible for all the evils that have been happening in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, is a direct blow to the state of Serbia, to the citizens of Serbia, and above all to the Serbian people, not only those living in Serbia but also living outside Serbia. Of course, here we can't help but remember and recently bring these shameful Declarations of Srebrenica. And here you have shown that you care more about the interests of some others, that is, to fulfill orders to succumb to the influences and propaganda of some others and to spit on behalf of your own people. Of course, the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj knew perfectly why he should go to The Hague tribunal, why he offered himself to The Hague tribunal, and I suppose you intend to tell us today, because every time you take advantage of every opportunity to say - why did you Serbian work against co-operation with The Hague tribunal, when your president went there voluntarily? Well, to beat you to it and to remind you that Vojislav Seselj went to The Hague tribunal at the time, and of course it was preceded by an indictment written in Belgrade by DOS leaders at the time and the Prime Minister at the time, and of course that Vojislav Seselj did not go to The Hague tribunal and that all these seven years did not tell the truth about the events of those, how you like to say, in the 1990s, that he did not open his eyes to both the world public and most judges in The Hague tribunal, regardless of what the verdicts say, we know that The Hague Tribunal is a political court and that they are there working again on the orders of the great Western forces, all of them do understand, and above all understand the world legal public as the role of The Hague tribunal and what was actually happening in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Vojislav Seselj has succeeded and will especially succeed when he returns to Serbia soon, you turn your head, Mr Sutanovac, I don't know what that means to you, but I really don't believe that there are a large number of citizens in Serbia waiting for Vojislav Seselj to return and are convinced that Vojislav Seselj is a political prisoner in The Hague tribunal. Certainly, what he is doing there and with the experts brought by the prosecution and with witnesses brought by the prosecution, explains perfectly that it is not the fault of the former Yugoslavia of the state of Serbia, that the crimes are not to blame, which unfortunately happened to all the peoples, the Serb forces, to whom all those who defended their homes with the rifle, who defended the parts of the state that was occupied today. But, of course, you don't mind. Here's an interview with your secretary of state a few days ago in a daily newspaper, so, among other things, with which Serbia is best co-operated in the region when it comes to defence, he says, "We have the best relations in this region with BiH and then with Macedonia, Slovenia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary." So, apart from Romania, all the countries that were once in the common state with us have been eager to recognise Kosovo as an independent state. You have the best cooperation with them. Then your state secretary, he will visit Zagreb by the end of April, where he will agree on an interstate defence agreement that the two ministries should sign in the first half of this year. Mr Sutanovac, what interstate agreement in the area of defence can Serbia sign with Croatia besides the fact that Republika Srpska is occupied by the state of Croatia? And it's amazing that you don't admit such facts, that you're not aware that it really is something that happened and something that is unfortunately current. Says your secretary of state - I apologize for mentioning, I don't mean anyone personally, I simply assume that, like you, you represent the government's views on defence affairs, in this sense just stressing who says so - we have bilateral co-operation with more than 50 countries. For the last two years, we have signed 23 interstate agreements, of which last year with Great Britain, Spain and Portugal, co-operation with the US defence area is the best part of Serbia and the United States' overall bilateral relations. You boast of something that really isn't commendable, and I don't want to say that people's proverb that would describe perfectly what you're boasting about here. What co-operation in the area of defense can we and should we have with the United States? What is it that the U.S. is giving us, except that we're teaching our people there, we're training them in some intelligence agencies, which is why they would go, which is why America would accept going there to their training centres? This, of course, boasts the secretary of state in this interview. It goes on to say -- it is often heard in public that Serbia is an exporter of security. The question is, what does that mean? This means that you contribute to security beyond your country's borders, and the security importer means that other countries are helping to maintain security in your own country. At this point, we are an exporter of security, which is a special curiosity, given the fact that 15% of our country is under the mandate of the UN. Then he says that within the UN, our army participates in peacekeeping missions in the Côte d'Ivoire, Congo, Liberia and Chad. Have you ever tried, when KIM is unfortunately temporarily occupied territory and when there are UN forces there, have you ever done anything to make it within these UN armies an army of Serbia, members of the Serbian Army, to at least in this way protect our people on KIM territory as much as possible. Of course, it does not occur to you because you, without the intention of offending anyone, do not think for yourself but are fulfilling the tasks of those who, unfortunately, are of interest and who in DOS have found a suitable associate to fulfill all interests of Western forces in Serbia, which is certainly strategically interesting, but unfortunately there is no authority that could "use" this very strategic position. Why don't you finally establish some closer contacts with the Russian Federation? He says your secretary of state is just on schedule. Someone here said we wanted to get in a fight with the whole world. We never caused a fight with the whole world, they fought with us, gentlemen, those who bombed us, those who killed Serbian children, those who destroyed Serbian cities and villages. If you consider our relationship with them after only ten years of fighting, then believe me, it's not a problem in us, the problem is that you are ready to forget so quickly and so easily all the evils that have been happening to the Serbian people. Please turn to the politics of Serbian and Serbian friends, there are those in the world, but try to get close to them. Let these, don't argue, no one makes you fight, but don't even establish any close relations with the open enemies of Serbia and the Serb people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38924	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38925	I just want to respond to a few things that have been said in several exhibitions. First of all, I've never asked or taught my children to forget our past. I gave you one piece of my personal intimacy and my personal past. On the other hand, you're saying that we're trying to stay as a criminal and genocide people. I have never said that anywhere, and I am proud of all my past and all of our old people who have justified that the trust of the citizens of Serbia and the people of Serbia has spread the peace and prosperity of the citizens who live there. Unfortunately, you try, or try to stay remembered as a people with a low degree of intelligence and short memory. I remind you, the Serbian army left KIM in line with the Kumanovski Agreement signed in 99. Under that agreement, thousands of security forces, it's not defined whether the military or the police could return to KIM, what do they do? To secure the border between Albania and Kosovo, or Serbia, to clean minefields and at the same time to guard Serbian churches and sanctities. I don't know who signed it, or who gave the order to sign something like that, and whose idea is it now to send young people from Serbia to clean minefields in Kosovo or to be surrounded by the Curse, where is a large part of the Serb youth that was in the army that died? And today to ask both tactically and strategically why, it's hard for you to know that those who did it tell you. The main foundation of all these documents that we have signed is an agreement, one that may be the most important thing in all of what we are discussing today, a word that is your side, a word that allows people to understand. So, the agreement, we want to make a deal. It is difficult to analyze who has fought Serbia with everything in Serbian history, which is why, in what way, but we will hardly find many countries in an environment with which we have not fought in the past. Please once again, it's not my problem, because this is not my personal interest, this is your interest, to look at the future, to see how we as a country can move in the future and how we can plan what is currently the greatest patriotism, which is to employ Serbian citizens. The question is, what have these countries given us? I wonder, and why would anyone give us anything and why did we come into a situation to give us something? Why is it that from that country that was normally arranged 90 years ago, we came into a situation to be destroyed from the UN? But it's not a problem either, we can tell who gave it to us. In this agreement, a large number of EU countries have made about 2.7 billion euros in donation to Serbia from 2000 to today, America has made 500 million, and little Norway, which is also mentioned in these agreements for which you have a grudge, has given about 50m euros, not to say it has the largest individual investment in Serbia. These countries want to co-operate with us, these countries disagree with us on KIM status, KIM status, but they want to cooperate with us. When you talk about Slovenia, you should look at how many people work in Gorenje, Valjevo. Whether we should throw Gorenje out of Serbia and say, "People, you don't have a job from today, but you'll be proud and defiant because we're leading you." How many people starved in the '90s and how many rows were there? Today Serbia is a country from which you can travel freely, a country where you can freely come. We have recently had visas for all EU countries, and not only for EU countries, but also for countries traditionally friendly with Serbia, so these visas have fallen last. Today Serbia is something that obviously bothers you, because today communication with people on the ground and abroad is so accelerated that what you're saying belongs not to the last century, but to the last century. Unfortunately, if you analyze the past a little, you will see that leaders and former Serbia, and later Yugoslavia had a vision, that an agreement with Turkey and Greece was signed in 1954, an alliance. It is our desire to allow the Serbian youth not to have to serve a military term if it does not wish, that the state of Serbia has a strong and powerful army in terms of its size and its financial opportunities, but that we also participate in ensuring security beyond the borders of our country, as it has been done and for many years in the past. Yes, we're becoming an exporter of security and we're proud of it, and I want you to know that no one has been sent by force. On the contrary, there is now a large list, let me say, of waiting for those who volunteered to participate in peacekeeping operations outside our country's borders, with complete conviction that we are thus protecting the interests of all citizens of our country. If you think it'll be enough to bury your head in the sand to pass the challenges, the risks and threats of the modern world past us and not get caught, you're wrong. Look at what happened in Moscow a few days ago, what happened in Spain, in Great Britain, in America? Globally, the security world has become a global village, and unless you are participating with your strengths, let me say with my muscles and intelligence in ensuring security in that village, if you will be forgotten on the edge, not just European integration, but on the edge of economically developed countries. I understand that here today we are talking about patriotism from the 14th century, and I understand that someone is justified and better at war than a pact and a better grave than a slave, but, ladies and gentlemen, today we are the negation of these messages. Today we are the negation of the message better a grave than a slave, because ours are not defined for that same grave.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38926	In fact, Mr. Minister spoke very clearly and without insults about the need for Serbia to be what it becomes, the factor of stability in the Balkans, but after more of you have come forward, only one will get the word from the SRS. Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, if anything is not clear?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that both Mr Sutanovac and DS have been putting the mortgage on the back of the SRS for everything that went wrong in those famous 1990s, despite the political historical fact that the SRS participated in the Serbian government in the period from 1998 to 2000, as did the historical and political fact that the DS itself had ministers in the federal government, for example in 1992. Could you DS be carrying some sort of responsibility for what went wrong in those 1990s? As for what Mr. Sutanovac said, shall we send Serbian young men to the Curse? But you, Mr. Sutanovac, will send them to Iraq, to Afghanistan, who knows where in the white world. You say - young people volunteered. How do you know that a young man might not sign up to go, say, to defend the Serb people at KIM? How is it possible that young people are waiting in line in front of the Department of Defense to go to Chad without any of them finding their way to go to KIM? I'm sorry, we don't believe in the SRS. Next thing you know, it's just amazing. It turns out that these laws should have been defended by Mladjan Dinkic, because as far as we can see, all this will bring great economic benefits to Serbia. I'm sorry, is this the Department of Defense, is it the military, security or will jobs be opened here, people will be able to buy apartments, cars, train their children, treat themselves, etc.? How is it possible that Serbia's only resource for attracting military investment and defence? You didn't promise that in 2008 when this government was formed, but jobs, the possibility of people being free schooled because you're a socially responsible government, the possibility of people treating themselves according to some European standards, because you're a socially responsible government, and today in Serbia, one who doesn't have money can die and the state of Serbia doesn't care. Finally, the last thing that's pointed out here is that if these agreements don't be ratified now, then we'll meet on the target of terrorists. On the contrary, Mr. Sutanovac. If international terrorism, above all Islamic terrorism, recognizes in Serbia allies of the United States, Great Britain, Germany, doesn't it seem logical to you that only then we will come under attack from these same terrorists, those same terrorists, Mr. Sutanovac, who created these same United States? Do you know what Al-Qaeda means? Base. Database. Do you know why the database? Because during the 1980s, the CIA knew each member of the Islamic forces in Afghanistan...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38928	Time. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38929	I must say that the fundamental misunderstanding or misunderstanding of the work of the Ministry of Defence leads to a discussion that in principle represents a conflict of two political worlds or two systems of values. The military, as we see it, is an army that needs to carry out all three missions defined by law, an army that should be the development and driving capacity of our Republic and our economy. Today, the military and the Ministry of Defence have become one of the main elements of the movement of our economy in central Serbia, related to the defence industry and not only to the defence industry, it should be a commendation for the military and the Ministry of Defence. It can't be a criticism. That during the earlier period, military capacities and the capacities of the Ministry of Defence were considered in this way, I am sure that today, in Serbia, there would be much better quality of living and that we would have much more allies than we have today. On the other hand, I'm sorry that you're closing your eyes in front of a terrorist that happened in Moscow. We want the best and the hardest ties to Russia. We expect in the course of this year that Mr. Makarov, General, Chief of Staff of the Russian Army, will visit Serbia and we would like to cooperate with them in something called a global fight against terrorism. The way you say it, you're neglecting the victims that were in Beslan, neglecting the victims that happened in Moscow, because it's not all you're saying is the product of U.S. policy or the wrong policy of the CIA. I'm sorry that you have such a narrow consciousness and that you look at such things in one black and white way. It's much more complex. The whole world is gathering today in the fight against terrorism, and you want us to be the only one who won't participate in this fight, because we can be attacked for it. It's the biggest absurd anyone's ever said and who's the authority to give me a lecture here how I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38930	There are no more grounds for replication. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38931	I'm reporting on the basis of Article 104 because I think I should have been entitled to a replica, because after my presentation, the minister said we had an intelligence problem and we had a short memory, so he asked, in the context of it, what did someone give us and what did we expect from someone? Think of the countries we spoke of, that is, the enemies of the Serbian people, of the Western forces. Mr. Minister, our memory isn't short. We remember perfectly, and we know that from the western forces, we've received cluster bombs, enriched uranium, and in return, they've taken KIM from us. That's why we don't want a military or any other co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38932	Konstantin Samofalov has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would refer not only to the agreements ahead of us, but also to the overall activity of the Ministry of Defence and precisely because of what my esteemed colleague Krasic mentioned, because young people in Serbia need to know what the Serbian army is doing. The army in Serbia has always been the pride of this people. We have to do everything to keep it that way in future generations. Here, first of all, I mean the reform processes that have gone very far in the defense system. We in the Assembly last year for the first time in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism adopted national security and defence strategies, a series of bilateral agreements like those we are discussing today, but also a large number of laws in the defence system, and perhaps the best indicator of this good work is the fact that almost all public opinion research today says that the military, along with the church, is the institution that is again most trusted in this society. It's nice to mention that today we have an increased interest in young men and girls for the military academy, military high school. This is important because a serious officer and sub-office when guaranteeing quality compliance under the defence system is a pillar of each country. I personally appreciate it very much, because it confirms that young people today much more than in some past, not so far away, believe the army. It's especially nice to hear that an increasing number of girls are applying to these institutions. I would like, on their behalf, and probably on behalf of most members of the Assembly's Defence and Security Committee, who have had the opportunity to attend military exercises during the past year, say, at the Cave, at the airport in Batajnica, and in a number of other activities, such as the opening of the South base in southern Serbia, which is probably the largest and most modern in this region. I must personally testify that today's action between the Assembly Committee and the Ministry of Defence and other parts of this system is incomparably better. This is especially important because we, as MPs representing citizens in the Serbian Parliament, have an obligation to exercise control, to exercise civilian control over the work of the security sector. It's important, first of all, for the citizens who chose us here. As for the agreements that are in front of us today, the agreements signed with a wide range of states confirm Serbia's full commitment to meeting the obligations defined in national security and defence strategies that we adopted last year. First of all, I mean the unequivocally expressed definition of our country to contribute to global stability and security, both through participation in major national operations, which have been talked about here and through a coordinated fight against modern risk challenges and threats to security that threaten the entire international community. These agreements are precisely the subject of co-operation in multinational operations, crisis management in the case of natural or technological disasters, arms control and disarmament. The key word here is co-operation, and this is best seen in the case of a recently signed agreement between Russia and America in Prague on the reduction of nuclear weapons, or, for example, this week's summit on nuclear security in Washington, which brought together more than 40 leaders of world countries. If countries like Russia and America, which were the biggest rivals in the cold war, today find common language to discuss the biggest security threats, why couldn't Serbia talk to its neighbours and other partners about the same topics? I also have to mention what a large number of countries in Europe are facing, and therefore Serbia, too, is that because of the economic crisis, we are faced with a great burden on military budgets. Today in Serbia, we have some priorities, as the military's professionalisation has been announced. As a result, it is not possible to realise a large number of investments. It is therefore important for countries to combine their capacities. Just in the EU, there are a large number of countries that invest in resources and together, working together on new military technologies, even buying weapons together. These are examples of good co-operation, and I think that in Serbia, and in this region that predicates to join the EU in the future, we should show readiness to this level of co-operation. Looking only at which countries we will ratify these agreements, it is clear that Serbia wants to co-operate with as many countries as possible, thus raising our country's international reputation. There are some of the EU's most influential members, such as Great Britain and Germany. There's, say, one Spain. Now I hear from colleagues from the SRS who say Spain is wrong, she's in NATO. Then they say Spain is great because it did not recognise Kosovo. We rely on Spain as one of the five EU countries that contributes to our policy of maintaining territorial integrity and sovereignty in Kosovo with its foreign policy. My question is, is Spain okay or wrong? I really don't get it. There are countries from the region – Macedonia, Bulgaria, Slovenia, which is our de facto neighbour. Regional co-operation is very important in the area of security, precisely because the modern challenges facing the whole world, such as terrorism, organised crime, illegal migration, the spread of weapons of mass destruction, cyber crime, climate change of global character, cannot be fought by any country alone. If we are not looking at this issue exclusively from a point of view, but in a broader context of security, the best example is the situation we have in Serbia today. Serbia is today leading probably the most fierce fight against organised crime it has ever fought. At the Assembly's Defence and Security Committee, we also had the opportunity to listen to Director Bija, who told us that about 80% of the heroin, which, for example, goes from Afghanistan to Western Europe, is now on the Balkan route. There are also Turkey, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, all the way to Western Europe. It is really hard to imagine, if there is no cooperation in this chain, that we can successfully oppose it. Serbia shows responsibility not only for itself and its citizens, but also shows solidarity with its neighbours and other countries. The same solidarity can expect them to solve our problems. There is Norway, which is a traditional friend of Serbia and with whom we participate in the mission in Chad, with our doctors in the Norwegian contingent. It is very important that Serbia continues the good tradition that the former Yugoslavia had, which was one of the largest global security distributors in these peace missions, when you may have been my age. In the '50s and '60s, JNA had 15,000 soldiers and was the largest national contingent of all. This is only a successful continuation of a good tradition of the Serbian army. In particular, I would like to stress the obvious re-establishment of traditional good co-operation with the countries of the Middle East, Africa and Asia, particularly in the area of military-economic co-operation. It's the dedicated industry, and just last year's dedicated industry was the largest exporter of the Serbian economy with realized 300m-dollar contracts, the new one signed in value of an eye, don't blame me if I'm a little wrong, half a billion dollars. We also had a visit to the state delegation recently in Algeria, and this is where serious business is announced. It is an agreement with Iraq that will ratify this economic co-operation and import and export of this military equipment. I am convinced that because of this and in the future, we will ratify an increasing number of these international agreements, because that is how we are able to take the best experience from our partners, we are also raising our military capabilities. Not only that, then we're exporting our knowledge and experience. Then we really become what was called an exporter of security here. When you are an exporter of security, you have a better position in relations with your partners, and exactly the partnership relations you achieve, by participating in the Partnership for Peace, by signing such bilateral agreements or by participating in peace missions, and in our case, the UN, we are strengthening our own international position, and we can therefore expect others to help us solve our problems. Speaking of what Serbia can export, we should be particularly proud of what is happening on VMA. There is currently the first generation of young people in the medical school of VMA. Serbia has thus become one of the few countries that educates doctors who at the same time become officers. It is something that is a valuable resource, that other countries do not have and Serbia can use it. Therefore, for the sake of all this, I really welcome this debate that we have on such agreements. I'm convinced we're raising their international reputation for our country. That's why I can't agree with my colleague Krasic, we respect the greatest past, but we respect the future even more and we have a responsibility to future generations. That's why I'm going to put my vote vote on these proposals in the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38934	Mr Krasic and Todorovic reported. Is that a reason? There's no basis for replication. No, this is a debate. Bringing attitudes. No, I don't. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Please don't, he mentioned the SRS. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38935	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, I really don't understand, Madam President, why this kind of anxiety in running a session and why such a beating of an MP. There's a small list of MPs today for discussion. You will complete this discussion in time, if you have some deadlines and if you have any other private or professional obligations. Do not, in such a way, brutally deny the right of the MPs of any member of Parliament, or of the SRS parliamentary groups, to receive the right to reply. I'm sorry Mr. Sutanovac got out of the O.R. He's the one I wanted to invite to have this debate if it's in any way possible for her to be civilized and calm. I don't know what that illusion means to him that I or anyone else in the SRS is being constrained. I don't know what that means to him or anyone else in our group we want to give lectures, we won't. Neither of us, nor I, have yet to take classes in the Garmis Partenkirhen courses, which Mr Dragan Sutanovac finished, have called us there. He listens to other people's lectures. Before I make certain views of the SRS regarding this item of the agenda, I am obliged to give a brief explanation of what Mr. Sutanovac obviously did not understand. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and citizens of Serbia, that the SRS, and I believe the Republic of Serbia, provides full support to the Russian Federation in the fight against terrorist groups that threaten the security of the Russian state and Russian citizens. We support politics and Vladimir Putin, and Medvedev and responsible Russian ministries, and the Russian military and Russian police in the fight against terrorism. I just want to draw attention to Mr. Sutanovac, or the gentlemen of the Department of Defense, that their Western friends, those who planted the bombs in Beslan, Moscow, are not saying they are terrorists, but they are fighters for human rights and freedoms. That's what we disagree on. We do not agree on the fundamental question – is terrorism everywhere in the world terrorism or is terrorism only if it affects us, and if it affects someone else, then it is no longer terrorism, then it is a struggle for human rights and freedoms? We disagree on that. As terrorism is in Iraq, so is terrorism in Russia, but terrorism in both Kosovo and Metohija. Those who set up bombs in Moscow or Beslan cannot be declared human rights and freedom fighters, misunderstood, tormented souls, which the hateful Russian state does not understand. Hashim Thaci, Haradinaj and other villains in Kosovo and Metohija cannot be respected partners of the United States, NATO and the EU, but when an American soldier or English soldier dies, it is terrorism. It's not a serious relationship to this phenomenon, it's hypocrisy, gentlemen, and the SRS is fighting hypocrisy and terrorism. Furthermore, here Mr. Sutanovac was speaking patheticly about our children and turns out to be the only man in Serbia who has children, Dragan Sutanovac. Whoever says he's against the NATO Pact is against his own children. I'm sorry, that's not true. Both Mr. Dragan Todorovic and Mr. Zoran Krasic, and Mr. Dragan Stevanovic and I and many others also have children, and I don't think at all bad thoughts about my own children or your children or anyone's children if I say that Serbia must never co-operate with the NATO Pact, enter the NATO Pact, and what you are doing today is introducing Serbia into the NATO Pact lobby. In one very rude way, you put a deliberate agreement on co-operation with one country that did not recognise Kosovo's independence and Metohija, that is Spain, and all others have acknowledged it, and not only have recognised it, but have preceded the bombing of the SRJ and in calling on other states to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, that we Serbian radicals, primitive, stupid, anti-European-oriented, do not really remember what you want, so to say, as the respected Mr. Samofalov said, here, these radicals attack these agreements, and, behold, Spain did not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Not, of course, because of his own interests because he has the same problems in his own house. Do you think, gentlemen who will vote in favour of these agreements, that Portugal, that Spain, yes Slovenia, is running their own defence policy in terms of military and defence, that they are completely sovereign and that it is up to them alone now that what will be in this segment? Of course that's not true. It's a public secret, that anyone who understands a little bit of military matters, that an officer of any of these states, a sergeant of any of these states, a soldier of any of these states must not go to the bathroom without first consulting an American officer who is stationed in a particular base or unit. Now you're telling us that this has nothing to do with the NATO Pact, this has to do with the European Union. That's not true. This is the introduction of Serbia into the hall of the NATO Pact, and so it says, gentlemen, and in the proposal for a bill confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, because in the preamble to this memorandum, it is said, among other things, that it is being signed to improve closer bilateral relations in maintaining European and Euro-Atlantic values and standards. So you here as a cowardly egg have planted the notion of the European Union and it turns out that now we have to ratify all of this because of the European Union and that now it's a plebiscite question -- if you're for these agreements, then you're for the European Union, and if you're against these agreements, then you're against the European Union. This has nothing to do with the European Union, this has to do with the NATO Pact, and the SRS is against Serbia being directly or indirectly involved in this aggressive military alliance, which has also caused war in Iraq, and the war in Afghanistan, which has tried to kidnap us, and today it is trying to, Kosovo and Metohija, which bombed the SRJ and which is now just waiting for the prospect of attacking a new country in the world. Now the elemental question is raised here – what is Serbia's interest in participating in other people's interests in wars fought on various world meridians, which the United States has started. This is where we get our respect, says how can you be against these agreements, so you know, drug routes, etc. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party, where do these drug routes come from? From Afghanistan? Who occupied Afghanistan? NATO Pact. Do you think the Americans know nothing about the production and trafficking of narcotics in Afghanistan? You think they're completely clean? You think it's all smuggling and illegal trafficking? It's not. They produce it, they sell it, and the Americans make it a huge economic and financial interest. The other thing is whether you want to admit it or not wants to admit it. You keep pushing yourself to be someone's friend, and he doesn't want you. There's a great line in the book of "Diplomacy" by Henry Kissinger: "Being an American enemy, it's dangerous, but being an American friend, that's fatal." Take care of it. Great American friends were, say, General Noriega. Do you know what his destiny is? A great American friend was Saddam Hussein, and he was hanged. A great American friend was also Milo Djukanovic, his days were numbered on the political scene, the question of what his fate would be, whether he would be put behind bars or simply abandon all political functions. Anyway, don't brag about being an American friend, I'd worry if I were you. Mr. Sutanovac spoke here, and I didn't get a chance to answer him, because here the president of the assembly seems to be serving to protect the minister from the MPs, which is not his function. So, Mr. Sutanovac respected us from the SRS -- well, you don't want to vote for ratification of these agreements, so you support those who carried out terrorist attacks in Russia. That's not true. Of course we don't support them and of course we support Russia's fight against terrorists. But it is hypocritical that you ask Serbian young men to participate in military or, as you say, peace operations anywhere in the world, and we have terrorism in our own home. The question now arises – how are you going to justify the fact that for the sake of American or British interests you will send Serbian young people to die who knows where in the white world, and the Serbian military and police have not returned to the 1,000-man contingent until today, to which they are otherwise entitled by annexes to Resolution 1244 of June 1999, has not yet returned. Where is it in the world that a country is fighting international terrorism everywhere, just not in its own home? It really doesn't make any sense. I guess we should get the terrorists out of Serbia first. I guess Serbia's military and members of Serbia's MUP should first return to Kosovo and Metohija, so that Serbia is safe from terrorists. She's not doing it right now. But not from terrorists only from Iraq and Afghanistan, but from the Cypriot terrorists from Kosovo and Metohija. When we clear Serbia from terrorists, then we'll ask one country at a time in the world if they need our help fighting their terrorism problems. This is totally insane. You'll allegedly defend America against terrorism, Russia against terrorism, Iraq against terrorism, but you won't defend your citizens because you can't, because they don't give you the same ones you sign these agreements with. Tell the citizens of Serbia that this world power opposes the completion of Resolution 1244, along with all annexes. Is Russia defending it? Is that what China's defending? Is India defending? Do they defend Arab countries? South American states? Who's defending? The defenses of the United States and Britain, and now you honor us here that anyone who does not vote for ratification of the agreement with them does not think of his children, he has a slave consciousness, he is one or another. You don't mean citizens of Serbia and children who are yet to be born and who are standing in Serbia. That's the problem of this country. Since Mr. Sutanovac said that we in the SRS don't understand anything and that our consciousness has been constrained, and that he hasn't heard anything bad about the draft laws that are on the agenda, I have to deny it by saying a few sentences about most of these agreements. Mr Dragan Todorovic cited a nonsense contained in the Agreement with the Government of the Republic of Iraq that the alleged agreement is based on the principles of sovereignty, equality and mutual respect, trust and recognition of interest, and small children in Serbia know that Iraq is no sovereign state and we regret that it is so, but it is not because of the guilt of the SRS or Serbia, but because of the guilt of the United States. Iraq today, gentlemen, is a mere occupied territory and every story about the Iraqi people having a free government, has a parliament, has no idea what, it's just not true. Iraq is under military occupation of the United States. As Serbia unfortunately increasingly becomes a state losing its sovereignty, so the state of Iraq lost its sovereignty in 2003. When it comes to the UK Agreement, as Mr Sutanovac said that he is not only the defence minister, but also the investment minister, the job creation, the rise of the Serbian economy, etc., I think he is also a minister of sports as of today, because in Article 4. The deal with the UK, among other things, says that the participating countries of the agreement will achieve co-operation in the fields of social, sports and cultural activities. If you could explain to me what the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence, Mr. Dragan Sutanovac, is connected to social, sports or cultural activities that we are supposed to establish with any country in the world, here, I would like you to explain to me what the connection is. Of course there is no connection, and of course this is all a colorful lie to cover up the essential thing, that you are dragging Serbia to a small door in a NATO pact, and we are going to show that for examples of other contracts. For example, when it comes to Slovenia, in Article 3. The agreement between the Serbian government and the Slovenian government is what it says: "Co-operation will take place, among other things, in the area of military history". Anyone who knows little about political history in the Balkans knows that Slovenia never had an army until 1991. I want to know how you're going to cooperate with a country that didn't have an army until 1991, so it couldn't even have military history. So, Slovenia did not exist as a state until 1991, and now we are going to establish co-operation with them in the area of military history. Serbia, of course, had military history, but Slovenia did not. This means that this agreement with Slovenia is completely pointless. An agreement with the Government of the Republic of Germany. The Germans are usually our great friends. In 1999, they were diving tears because the NATO Pact was bombing us, and they also did not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Imagine, in Article 2 of this agreement with Germany, we will work together to integrate the armed forces into a free democratic society. Can you explain to me what this means? We will work with the Germans on how to integrate the army into a free democratic society. We are here in the field of pure ignorance of military science, he says – we will co-operate with the Germans in the area of internal management of the armed forces (morals). I'm someone who served the army, even some supporter. If you explain to me that morale in the army is anywhere internally managed by the armed forces, here, I will be grateful to you, but of course that's not true. This means that all these agreements, that I don't read any more of this nonsense, that the gentlemen of the government and you gentlemen who are going to vote for this, are a colorful lie, that Vlasi doesn't realize that the meaning of all the nonsense of co-operation with someone who doesn't have military history or we're going to play football with the English, etc., that all this is a mask to cover up the basic fact. You know that the citizens of Serbia are in most anti-NATO pacts and you must not publicly say that you are a NATO pact, but you will move on the move to introduce Serbia into the lobby of this aggressive military organisation, with the ultimate goal of killing in the white world for American and English interests not American and English children, but Serbian children. If you really care about the interests of Serbian children, you will not vote for ratification of these agreements, as neither will the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38936	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38937	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the representatives of the ministry, I must begin by saying that, as the LDP supported the laws relating to security reform, we will also support these agreements. The LDP, in addition to favouring European integration, also advocates Euro-Atlantic integration. For this there are certain reasons which are primarily the public interest, i.e. the interest of our society. These are security, political and economic reasons. Security reasons lie in that Serbia can definitely not be a guarantee of security on its own, but as we are surrounded by countries that are members of the NATO Pact or have put it as a top priority, we feel it is necessary here to say that we are in favour of Serbia becoming a member of the NATO Pact. Political reasons -- by joining this alliance, Serbia would provide itself with the necessary political stability and a solid basis for building friendly relations primarily with neighbouring countries. Economic reasons – NATO Pact membership brings decisive economic stability and foreign investment growth. We've heard a lot of words here against. We think that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija itself, that is, relations with Kosovo itself, our accession and co-operation with NATO's pact would greatly facilitate and improve the lives of citizens in Kosovo, above all Serbs. Of course, it would open a dialogue that we are constantly talking about and the perspective between official Belgrade and those who have declared independence, or Pristina. Does the Ministry of Defence want what we want, that is, for Serbia to become part of NATO? We think so. What he's doing, what I'm saying, he's saying in favor of it, but you can't be lonely about it, gentlemen of the Ministry. You need the support of the entire government, you need the support of society. I think the day will come very soon when you come here with one such proposal. We will give you support then, and we think that the sooner we get to know the citizens of Serbia who are interested in becoming part of Serbia and NATO members, the easier it will be for us to see European integration and Euro-Atlantic integration. Once again, the LDP supports these agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38938	You're going instead of Mr. Krasic? You switched? No, then Mr. Krasic has a word. I see you signed up, Mr. Dragan Stevanovic. Yes, yes, sir. Here you go, Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to look back here on an agreement with a very specific example of local character, and I will try to point to all the formalities of all of this and the fact that these agreements, as much as the government has tried to present them as something useful and good for the state, are, in essence, not representing them. Of course, the problem I'm about to touch has already been opened twice in this congregation. I was trying to get the public, and above all, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who represent different security authorities here, to draw attention and make them react with our appeal on this side. These appeals have lasted for five or six months and to the day of today's state's reaction almost nothing happened. Of course, the summary of my presentation will be the question, whether this agreement, but very specifically let the representatives of the Government answer us, give us the effects on solving some problems, some of the problems which represent essentially the opposite of the principles that are stated here – that the reasons for the adoption of these agreements. I will refer to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the exchange and mutual protection of confidential information in the area of defence. Now imagine the irony, in the next paragraph of reasoning, it says – that the aim of this law, or agreement, is based on the principle of sovereignty. So that's the first principle. The SRS has tried several times in this hall to indicate that the unpleasant winds are coming from the Republic of Bulgaria, the winds that have their political exhibits in the area of the Pcinj County municipalities, particularly in Bosilegrad, and that these attacks on the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia are absolutely accumulated at the Cultural and Information Centre in Bosilegrad, i.e. in KIC. I will try to prove it here today in front of you and the public, very concretely through the bulletins and through the newspapers that this KIC publishes – very freely, without any problems, it seems to me, with the fact that the state and all the competent authorities dealing with security and constitutional order are closing their eyes in front of that fact, that is, in front of such activities. Of course, there is no need to bypass the fact that Bulgaria has also recognised Kosovo's independence. Now, as I come from areas that are borderline, I have the opportunity to communicate with citizens from Bulgaria, I can't say that a good part of the citizens share that view, but it was a political decision that Serbia must not be distracted by the mind. As they did, of course all this is happening further -- the position of the political decisions of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, which you should vote on in the day of voting to vote on this agreement. As without any standards, they became part of Europe's political decision, became part of the NATO Pact, and you know the people's one to give the dinar a round, she'd give two to go out -- maybe they'd give ten, but there's no more going back. This obliges us to take our stand and our attitude towards the Republic of Bulgaria as a principle of reciprocity, which is the basic principle of diplomacy. I also believe and have an obligation to say on behalf of the SRS, that something very incorrect has been dragged through today, which is that because of our attitude towards those who are hitting the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, we are allegedly not for the economic improvement of this country, we are not for co-operation and we are not for relations that will bring benefits to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's not true. We have shown this, acting as a local self-government – that we are ready, that we are able and that we agree and that we co-operate in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It did not, however, amnesty us to point out the attack on the constitutional order that is happening in the territory of the Pcinj County. Before the end of 2009, I asked representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia about the event that took place in Bosilegrad, which was organised by the ATAKA parliamentary group from the Republic of Bulgaria, which is part of the ruling majority. At the rally, in the middle of Bosilegrad, they asked for Western Bulgarian provinces covering the municipality of Bosilegrad, part of the municipality of Surdulic and part of the municipality of Dimitrovgrad to return to Bulgaria. Unfortunately for us and our support and logistics for such a rally was given by the state of Serbia, for example, by one banal example, which enabled them to power from the Serbian Tax Administration. My question on this basis waited as a very urgent answer for four months. Then I received the answer in an envelope on which the seal "very urgent" from the MUP – how the public order was at the level. I once again asked Mr. Minister, here and now I use your presence and I appeal to you – what did the state do, did the security services respond to the fact that very open messages were sent to the collapse of the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia? To this day, I have received no answer. It's obvious that someone is very tending to keep their mouth shut. I'm convinced that the representatives of the government and the security services have knowledge of this, but be quiet. Time will show for what reasons. We are interested today – will this agreement, although we did not have the obligation to keep quiet about all this, exist today services and mechanisms, from constitutional, legal and all others to the state to react, will this agreement allow such things to not happen in the future? You know, it's nice that someone has shown a commitment to give Serbia 2,700,000 euros, but I ask any MPs today in parliament -- who from Europe and the modern world, set on market principles, gives money for free and what is paid for it? Is that what pays the price to close our eyes for three years and 10 months in front of the fact that those with whom we make agreements are destroying sovereignty, and then two months, as the priority of the pre-election programme, we offer "KIM and Europe in the heart of Serbia" etc? Nobody's giving money away for nothing today. You must finally start saying what you think or do what you think, not thinking and doing one thing and saying something else entirely. I will now very specifically show that it is the countries that are members of the EU and NATO's pact that no one resents calling for history – when they openly show territorial claims towards a non-EU country, it is not a member of that so-called. "Society." No one blames them. The political story opened in Bosilegrad has an epilogue declaration, which is in the Council of Europe and in the Bulgarian Parliament, and the declaration should become the basis for reviewing the Noj Agreement, or the borders of the Republic of Serbia. When and when will they come to order, and I am interested; are there mechanisms to stop it? The fact that you are silent about everything that is happening in the territory of the municipality of Bosilegrad and these other municipalities of the Pcinj County really indicates that there is no willingness to react to such a thing. In one of the KIC newsletters in Bosilegrad, the official paper of the KIC, among other things, and these are the most extreme texts, calling for and giving itself the right to Western Bulgarian provinces that are part of the Republic of Serbia, and the political currents that have their components in Bulgaria, are calling for the return of South Dobrudja from Romania to Bulgaria. Do you know how they are? By publishing pictures of occupation soldiers from 1941, who entered southern Dobruja, on Romania's territory, in the newspaper. The emissary shows the paper, with the pictures. ) These are pictures of German and Bulgarian fascist officers and occupiers, published in December 2009. How did that not bother anyone in the EU? How can someone in the European and developed world not see it as evil, like blowing some new and unpleasant winds? What is also devastating is that the state of Serbia closes its eyes to the fact that "cultural institutions" freely operate in this country before the fact that security services or services that have competences defined by both the Constitution and the law close their eyes to the fact that in Bosilegrad, in the name of protecting and promoting the cultural rights of Bulgarians, someone publishes the text - the Vojvodina state, why not? Then two pages later, he publishes a picture of Bulgaria drawing a map of seven pigs, and one of those seven pigs is the Republic of Serbia. You promote European values? In 2010 in Serbia today, associations like this seem to be working in front of which you close your eyes. Half a year, the SRS has been sending a message to open up a very untasteful and unpleasant issue. One is the problem, one is the level of problem that comes from the area where this is happening, but another is national responsibility, responsibility and as MPs and members of the SRS, above all after the Republic of Serbia, that no one here is mortgaged to himself that he is the sole authority or in the function of achieving our national, state, economic and all other interests. The state is still silent in front of these very unpleasant things. He's got to react to this. My question at the end or at the end of my presentation – will the agreement we sign with the Republic of Bulgaria allow these things to no longer happen? The formal character of these agreements just points to these facts and these things. They show the weakness of the state, the fact that it's not ready to react to these things and that you're not prepared as a government to appeal to the principle of reciprocity. First principle in diplomacy. Whatever your relations in diplomatic terms mean, military, economic or any other co-operation, we will talk about it tomorrow when we talk about agreements with Turkey, whose interests and who sets priorities here. We can't keep our mouth shut in front of some things because someone in Europe gave us 2,700,000 euros. Let them give them to us, and let them not charge us in the worst way possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38940	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38941	I must say that we are signing agreements with the official state bodies of the republic and the kingdoms with which we communicate and that when we sign these agreements we cannot really pay attention to some minority extremists, who, indeed, with some chaos in their head, have the idea to spread the Bulgarian border towards Serbia or have an idea to spread the Serbian border in the direction of Karlobag - Karlovac - Virovitica. So that story you're telling isn't a story from the Bulgarian Parliament, that story is a story from certain heads of people who obviously don't know what to do with themselves, so now they'd end the borders in Europe. The fact is that you as a parliamentary party advocate the borders of Karlobag - Karlovac - Virovitica and that it creates much more problems for Serbia in diplomatic efforts to secure its sovereignty than someone in some pamphlet in Bosilegrad. That's not funny. (Dragan Stevanovic, from the post: It is a newspaper. Whatever newspaper, your policy, your official policy that you are declaring, both here and in The Hague, is the return of Serbia to the border of Karlovac – Karlobag - Virovitica, and here at the same time you are criticising us for signing an agreement with Bulgaria, in which someone in some pamphlet, I repeat, has announced that they have claims on Serbia. Be assured that all state authorities dealing with the security of Serbian citizens will not allow anyone to tear off a piece of any millimeter of our country, on the one hand, and on the other hand, be at least a little self-critical sometimes, so say – here, and we used to talk nonsense, but we're not behind it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38942	Mr. Martinovic, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, a member of 104 has been injured. Most kindly, please, if Mr. Sutanovac can't discuss with the MPs in a reasonable and civilized way, then let the Government send another minister. Mr. Sutanovac said to us today the most incredible insults, that our consciousness was constrained, that we were talking nonsense and who knows what else. Can we expect to get beat up? What's this about? So, we are discussing on the basis of our arguments and I have no intention of defending or explaining now what Mr. Dragan Stevanovic was going to say, he will say it himself when he gets the right to reply, but I ask you to respect the fact that there are MPs sitting here. This is the National Assembly. So, as you would have warned us if I had told Mr. Dragan Sutanovac now that he was a foreign mercenary, that he was a criminal, that he had no idea about the military or that he was working for the CIA, you would have given me a warning. Mr. Dragan Sutanovac is dead cold, though lucky he's cold-blooded, but he's very caught up in me for completely unknown reasons, insulting the MPs of the SRS, and you keep your mouth shut. It turns out now that there is nothing to be said in this assembly unless we have prior approval from Dragan Sutanovac whether we can say it. I'm sorry, these are our political views, this is no nonsense. These are the pamphlets behind which one parliamentary, Mr Sutanovac, party in Bulgaria stands, among other things. If you're telling me that a Serb soldier has ever committed such atrocities in history against Bulgarians who have committed in Serbia, then I could find an excuse for this impertinence of yours, but it just doesn't stand. Here, the Serb people of the Pcinj district are concerned about their own future because they have a tragic experience from their own history from the beginning of the 20th century. Don't let me remind you of the Second Balkan War and the War of War.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38944	Time! I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: So we can be offended? ) No, please, only in your address, i.e. when you were speaking, and you called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, on several occasions you said that Mr. Minister was foamed, foamed, etc., and you are asking me to react when someone else, including the minister, is using terms that, in your taste, may not be the most appropriate. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: It is a literary metaphor, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic. I think it makes sense that everyone takes care of the terms he uses. I'm asking you all, but you're asking me to react every time someone uses the term "scared," and you're using it twice. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: When does he use the term stupidity, narrowed consciousness? Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38945	I have to apologize to all those MPs who didn't like my vocabulary that I adapted first of all to you from the SRS. I haven't foamed for a moment, and I'm glad you're talking about the Warm Uprising, which is what you're talking about, Toplice. I can tell you that I'm from those parts, that my great-grandfather just got hurt right there the way you were talking and I totally understand. I don't know where you're from, I know your party members came all the way to the village where my great-grandfather and grandfather told lies and lies. That's what we'll discuss in court. As much as you ask me to withdraw my lawsuit, I won't, with respect. Your lawyer is asking me to do it, I say - I won't. There is no agreement, but I will also tell you that what you are saying now with the idea of scaring the people of Bosilegrad or anywhere in Serbia, that anyone from Bulgaria will tomorrow start to commit atrocities in Serbia, is absolutely incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38946	Mr. Stevanović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38947	Mr. Minister, in rudeness, I will not keep you company. I haven't said for a moment that you're talking nonsense, whatever you think about your political concept and the ideology that you belong to, but it's your big problem, I think this discussion I've opened has asked you for a little rationality. Call the representatives of your municipal board in Bosilegrad and ask what they think of all this, what kind of relationship they have and what attitude they have toward all this. I didn't speak on behalf of the SRS today just, I said it very openly, and I didn't speak only in the name of the Serbs, I spoke on behalf of the Bulgarians who live there and among whom the bad representatives of that people are causing unrest. I would not give myself the right to speak in front of the SRS on behalf of five or ten people, but on behalf of the citizens who live upstairs who are harassed and terrorized by these people. That's one thing. The other thing, the political group I was talking about is not only parliamentary, but also part of the ruling coalition. What the G17 says today, or what LSV says, is not their position as parliamentary parties but as acts of the ruling majority. It is not the law on regional development of the laws of Mladjan Dinkic, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is not the legislators of MPs and political parties, but those who make up the Government, you are sitting here on behalf of the Government, not the Municipal Committee of Palilula, or I don't know where, anyway. That's what you should know. There's one more thing you should know. I have made that very clear -- two declarations based on these ambitions, in the Bulgarian Parliament and in the Council of Europe, in your friends, in the Council of Europe and in Bulgaria, which is part of the EU. If that's something you're going to call a casual pamphlet, then there's someone here that we really have a problem with. Whether it's me or you're the problem, unfortunately, time will tell.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38948	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38949	I refer to Articles 101 and 104. President-in-Office, if someone in his discussion accuses and views it as a legitimate political stance, using incredible expressions and accusations, such as "the lack of patriotism", "pulsing of their own people", "that someone is making an effort to keep Serbs in writing as a criminal people", etc., which every SRS MP in this discussion has said several times, and directed to others, and then is offended when someone thinks that they are nonsense or when they think that it is not a very clear vision when someone can talk like that, then I'm afraid you don't understand what it means to have the same rights. So, if you think that you have the legitimate right to insult in the most cruel way possible, these insults are not even harmless, because those in the topic that we are discussing today, with the consequences of the policy of the 1990s, and people's deaths, can very easily challenge people's emotional need that, if you are thus targeting someone as a traitor, you are also saying that foreign orders are being fulfilled, etc., then you are, in fact, targeting your political opponents as those who may eventually recognize them as the reason for your accident that hit them. First of all, I ask the President that, when such qualifications are presented, he responds immediately and insists that there should be no such qualifications in the parliamentary debate, when we talk about ratifications of international contracts.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38950	Mrs. Kolundjia, I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. The SRS MPs have expressed their political stance, and they have a political stance that is not the country's position. So, that's what they just said and I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure, but if you think there is, we can plead out in the voting day. Only one of you has the right to a replica on behalf of the SRS. Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38951	I really don't build on a single word spoken by any MP of the SRS. Everything you said, I don't know why you looked at me. I understand you're talking to me. I'm happy that we really don't have the common policy and the same attitude that you have, which is to keep your mouth shut in front of these facts. I didn't insult anyone, I called on the state authorities to respond. I repeat, be kind and call your municipal board upstairs and ask what they have to say about this. Call SO Bosilegrad, all the councilmen and ask what they have on this. They're legitimate representatives of the people there. Ask what kind of attitude they take towards this. I'm not talking about the Bulgarian people, I'm not talking about the entire Bosilegrad municipality, I'm talking about individuals who need the state to react. You have an obligation, which is why you got power, you run the state, to solve this kind of thing, not to push them under the carpet and close your eyes in front of them. This is like a problem. It is correct to say – we do not have the courage to face it, since you face everything, you have courage and responsibility. Say, "It's not our story, and we won't solve it." You will leave it in the legacy of someone else, someone next who will come for you, but it will have neither the intensity nor the volume it has today, today when it is possible to solve it. They use their position to raise these ambitions to a level that will be possible to resolve. This is not the attitude of individuals, this is the position of a political party that forms the power in Bulgaria, which gives most of Bulgaria and you have to react precisely because you sign the agreement. And that's not why you keep your mouth shut and bend your spine because we're signing an agreement, and now we're not going to open that question. I suppose you're opening them up to solve them, as far as I understand the minister. "Today we agree on a future." This was our appeal to make arrangements for the future. I repeat, this is the attitude of the citizens of Bosiligarad and your party, and above all, the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38952	Mrs. Kolundjia, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38953	It's probably the distance that keeps us from seeing exactly who I'm looking at. I wasn't really looking at you, or what I was reacting to was the reaction to what you were saying. The one to whom this applies knows very well why I reacted. So, it's that you can't call someone a foreigner, a traitor, a nepatriot, you can't blame someone in your region to spit on your own people and think it's legitimate. Once again, please, it is not a political stance, it is a disqualification that is unacceptable in a normal parliamentary debate. Among other things, it's an accusation of the most serious crimes. So someone here thinks it's a legitimate political stance to accuse someone of the most terrible crimes, because it's treason, it's an attack on their own people and such qualifications. In that sense, it's inadmissible to feel that you have the right to react to any word that says that nonsense is what you're saying. What you're saying is worse than nonsense. So the gentlest word is someone used to tell you that you can't speak in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38954	Mr. Martinovic, advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38955	I'm suggesting a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, really please, Mrs. Kolundjia, don't get so excited and upset.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38956	Please speak to me and to Parliament, not to Mrs. Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38957	I urge you to keep in mind that the head of the ZES parliamentary group is a mildly false one. If you find to me that one SRS MP today told Mr. Sutanovac or anyone else that he's a traitor, that he's a foreign mercenary, that he spits on his own people, I really don't know who said that, then I'm willing to apologize on behalf of the MP group and Mr. Sutanovac and Mrs. Kolundjia. Now I ask you, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I really respect you as a lady, as a doctor, we had a very unpleasant scene in this House a few days ago. Do expressions such as stupidity, constricted consciousness have the right to citizenship in the National Assembly or not? If they have the right of citizenship, then we can all use them, if they do not have the right of citizenship, then there is no defence minister or no minister at all in Serbia, who can come to the National Assembly and say, let's say, to the MP to talk nonsense or to have his consciousness narrowed down. You're a neuropsychiatrist, when you tell someone that his consciousness is narrowed down means he's unaccountable, that he's probably mentally ill, etc. I don't think any of the MPs in the National Assembly are in such a mental state. So, on the basis of the facts, we have expressed our political views, and therefore I call on you, both Minister and Mrs Kolundji not to bring unnecessary rage, anger, some expressions to use that really is no place in the National Assembly. You want to co-operate with the EU and act as if you are who knows where, in some distant Asian or African spaces, where it is possible to come to the National Assembly and insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38958	Mr. Martinovic, when someone argues his position, so he uses some terms that he wants a certain political acuity or the acuity of an attitude to bring here, and he uses some term that is not with a tendency to offend any individual, I'm simply trying to measure that I'm not interrupting it to work effectively. So, convinced that MPs often use and not the most appropriate terms, but in this glories of dialogue, which should actually exist in this space, I don't say the measures, I don't warn, I'm simply saying that we just have to take care. Every time someone tends to insult any MP using inappropriate terms, I react very much. I think I did it today. In case you're not satisfied with my explanation, I suggest you take the day to vote. You're pleased, thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38959	Maybe there are those who, when accused and even guilty of some heavy stuff, don't bring emotion into it and can be completely indifferent, I'm not one of those people. So it really hurts me because of all my ancestors, my child, my family, it hurts me when someone who doesn't have any right accuses me of the worst things they accuse us of here. If it bothers anyone that I'm showing emotion, it's really his problem. Mr. Martinovic, you can apologize immediately or ask for a stenogram and you will see. You know I'm very closely following the discussion, to record what you're saying, especially when you say things that are inadmissible in the communication in parliament. So you will find it very easy to find out that your MP was talking about us working to mark the Serbian people, to stay written down as a criminal people, that she was talking about fulfilling foreign orders that resulted in what they had. So, I haven't invented a single word. I really ask you as deputy head of Parliament to apologize and to listen carefully to what your MPs say and to ask your next speaker not to speak in the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38960	Now Mr. Martinovic and we end this circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38961	So, Mrs. Kolundjia, you are a lady, I truly respect and respect that fact, and I have no intention of insulting you in any way, nor were you with the MPs of the SRS intended to insult neither Mr. Sutanovec, nor you, nor any MP who will vote for this. We're just asking for an open debate, we're just asking that we don't get dust in our eyes that this is some economic co-operation that will bring us, as you say, some big economic benefits, and you take a nice deal and it says there – the Ministry of Defence will co-operate with Slovenians in the field of social, sports and cultural activities. I'm sorry, I really don't understand. So, can we here as MPs, including, of course, government gentlemen, conduct an argumentative and civilized discussion based on our political views. I never told you today that you're not a lady, that you're talking nonsense, that you're unaccountable, etc. We have the right to express our political views. I would ask you, since I have no influence on Mr. Sutanovac, I guess you're some party boss, to ask the Secretary of Defense to come to the National Assembly, he doesn't have to agree with us from the SRS, he can say that this is not true what Mr. Dragan Stevanovic said, but he can't say it's stupid. So ask the Secretary of Defense, ask all your ministers when they come to the National Assembly to respect the MPs, and as far as we are concerned, we will honor them as much as they respect us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38962	Mr. Sutanovac has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38963	The Supreme is in parliament when you make up your own enemy, you attack yourself, and then you defend yourself by saying that someone else attacked you. I'm absolutely behind the fact that it's an unprecedented nonsense to talk about the boundaries of the Carlovac-Carlobag-Virovica. All the penalties I can get in Parliament, and wherever, I'm telling you it's stupid. But I didn't say about it, I said about that pamphlet that someone announced was stupid. We both agree that if we work in the interests of the country's defense that the pamphlet, whoever published it, is stupid. If this is the case, make sure it's working, there are agencies involved in protecting this country's constitutional system. If you are interested, if you have read what it means, or what the agreement on co-operation with Bulgaria implies, it says here – an agreement on co-operation on the exchange and mutual protection of confidential information. So to deal with such nonsense, we have to exchange information, and to exchange it, we have to sign an agreement. No country of the world, no matter how much you laugh, can deal independently with organised crime, extremism, terrorism and so on. Asymmetric threats that are today rooted everywhere in the world. We just want to make partner relations with those state bodies that want to fight it with us. Do not have any doubt that this is for the benefit of all people living in Dimitrovgrad, although I suspect that anyone from the DS has delegated you to speak in the Serbian Parliament today on behalf of him. So it's one big nonsens, you can laugh again. So I'm saying you don't have the capacity to speak in front of anyone in the coalition made up of DS and other parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38964	The word is from the People's Messenger Tamash Tot. There were no elements to the replica, this was really extremely fine. Mr. Tot, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38965	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in my speech, will refer to the agreements on co-operation in the defence area between Serbia and the following countries: Spain, Great Britain - Northern Ireland, Germany, Portugal, Slovenia, Macedonia and Norway. Co-operation will develop in particular in the following areas: defence and security policy, arms and disarmament control, defence budget planning and establishment, defence legislation, civil defence and crisis management, military medicine, peace support operations, military-science co-operation, military education and training, military-economic co-operation, environmental protection under military needs. We are aware that in the modern security environment Serbia cannot respond independently to all security challenges and threats, especially those of a global and transnational nature. Today security doesn't just have military character, it represents much more than that. It involves fighting organised crime, illegal migration, fighting terrorism, and managing crisis and emergency situations. That's why we need partners, allies, to deal with these challenges successfully. Today, globalisation, integration, are present in all areas and at all levels. Serbia has free trade agreements with many countries, with the goal of improving our economy. We also work with many countries in the field of education, through student exchange programs and professors. That is exactly the kind of cooperation we need in defense. Our defence strategy relies on the stability of the region, on maximum correct relations with all countries in the environment. If we were to view countries in the region as hostile, then the defence strategy would certainly have to be different. The allocation of funds from the budget for the military's needs should be significantly higher. Serbia, which is heading towards modernisation and reduction of the military budget, must find a way to integrate, above all, to use all opportunities under the Partnership for Peace programme, in which it has not yet taken all available positions. There are a large number of committees and subcommittees within the programme itself, and you only participate in a number of committees if you are an active member of the programme; if not, you are denied participation. On the other hand, the Partnership for Peace programme today deals with energy security, environmental protection, medicine, etc., broad spectrum, not just defence. For the reasons already mentioned, it is a great pity that Serbia has not fully participated in the Partnership for Peace programme since the end of 2006. It is naive to believe that we can continue to make progress if we are missing from this programme, in which only the Russian Federation has 40 representatives at NATO headquarters in Brussels. Any kind of isolationism will eventually result in a major downturn, primarily in the economic and social status of Serbian citizens. I hope that significant progress will be made in the Partnership for Peace programme this year. It is important to say that in addition to the respect and respect that the army has regained among the citizens, the Serbian Army enjoys a great reputation and beyond the borders of our country. This trust has also been expressed through the desire to participate in peacekeeping missions. Let me remind you, in Chad, our peacemakers are concerned about the health of the entire UN peace mission contingent. Our army is respected not only in military terms, but also in military medicine, which is certainly a significant recognition. Serbia's army has extremely high quality relations with many armies around the world, which are those with NATO, which are those outside the alliance, as well as among non-classified countries. We have good relations with China, America, Norway, Portugal, Iraq, Algeria and many other countries. These relations are not only for the benefit of the defence system, but are for the benefit of all citizens of Serbia, as in many countries the defence system is the main driver of economic co-operation. Serbia today is the largest producer and exporter of weapons and military equipment in the Balkans. Our products meet all standards, and we're best known for the ammunition of all calibers. We're exporting to markets from Indonesia to the United States. However, we have the best co-operation with traditional customers, with those countries that, at the time of SFRY, have trained their officers in our military academys. It's Iraq and Algeria. We expect to re-establish co-operation with Libya, Egypt, Kuwait. In addition to co-operation on arms exports, we have excellent co-operation in the field of military education. Officers from some countries are coming back to us for school. Currently, there is a group of Algerian military officers in postgraduate studies, which contributes greatly to the promotion of the entire defence system, including the defence industry, because almost all factories make their own revenues and support themselves. Speaking of factories, it's important to say that the Dedicated Industry has been lifted from the ashes, because these factories have been destroyed, and from such a situation we have arrived again in the leadership position. The work of factories during the global economic crisis certainly helps the state reduce the external trade deficit, but also contributes to the creation of new jobs, which is another indication that we need co-operation with other countries, in addition to security, economic and social reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38966	Seven minutes and 30 seconds of MP time used. The word has the People's Messenger Bozidar Delic, followed by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen, today we are talking about ten laws relating to military co-operation agreements with different states. As for SNS, some of these agreements are also controversial. In my discussion, I won't talk about them. I will talk about an agreement that should not be disputed for any of the parliamentary groups. It is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Iraq. It is known, gentlemen, that the Republic of Iraq at the time of the SFRY was our significant partner and that particularly good co-operation was achieved in the area of the dedicated industry, where, annually, not only were the construction of military infrastructure facilities, but in the export of our weapons and military equipment, and even in the development of dedicated capacities on the territory of Iraq, the sums achieved even in billions of dollars. It's a good thing this continuity continues now. One of my colleagues said last year that the Dedicated Industry made the biggest exports, that it was about 300 million dollars, and I think, according to some of my knowledge, that most of these funds were achieved by exporting to the Republic of Iraq. Mr. Minister, I think you said about two years ago, and you, and the president of the state, were talking about the business of the century, about some $245 million, about the agreement, about the contracts with the Republic of Iraq. It was weapons, ammunition, then protective equipment, as well as an aircraft for the initial training of the pilot Lasta. I know part of those programs are coming true. I have said before in this assembly that everything in these contracts was not very transparent, especially when it comes to protective equipment, because the Iraqi delegation was in Zrenjanin, watched, tried, questioned the equipment of the company Mile Dragic, which has capacities that exceed the needs of not only Serbia, but probably the former Yugoslavia, and even the Balkans, and then did not conclude a contract with the company, but in Serbia raised new capacities for the production of these equipment, and some segments of these equipment were imported, which means that those 110 million dollars, which were scheduled for the equipment, did not remain all in Serbia. Some of it was received by the Israelis, some of it being obtained by the Chinese. My questions, Mr. Minister, will have nothing to do with this. I'm just saying it wasn't all very transparent. The point is that even when you were in Iraq to sign this agreement, next to the "Lasta" plane, there was also talk about another potential product of the Serbian Dedicated Industry, which is OVT – an armored vehicle with the "Lazar" point. Just to remind you, before they even appeared in Serbia, the Ministry also launched a tactical and technical study on OVT – armored vehicles with eight times eight points. Four of the most qualified vehicles that were then in production were certainly taken into consideration. It's definitely Finland's Patria, Switzerland's Piranha, Russia's Bet Air 90. I criticized this because the study itself could show that there was a cheerleading commitment to the Finnish vehicle Patrius. It's a good thing we didn't get into that contract. I certainly said hello when all of a sudden we started talking about our home armored vehicle, "Lazar." That vehicle was presented. You were in Iraq in electronic form and you showed it to the Iraqis. You even said they were interested in such a vehicle. As far as I know, that vehicle isn't eight times eight, it's six times six. It's okay. I welcomed and I think that every citizen of Serbia would do so, if in the FaP in Priboj or anywhere in Serbia we could produce such vehicles. Mr. Minister, how suddenly it stopped talking about Patrius, and suddenly it stopped talking about "Lazarus." These days, the press is talking about a four-time car that would be re-produced there in Priboj, in collaboration with an Austrian firm. Certainly, our army may need a certain number of such vehicles, but it primarily requires eight times eight. However, my question to which I want an answer, Mr. Minister, is about Lasta. Is it true, Mr. Minister, that this project is late? That we should have done certain obligations for the Iraqis already when it comes to the Lasta project? Is it true that Iraqi pilots were already in Serbia, but they had no chance to fly on that plane? Why am I telling you this? I certainly support all these projects, but no one can play with the reputation of this country, the reputation our dedicated industry has worked hard and built for years. Is that SDPR, is that UTVA, it absolutely doesn't matter. But if we have Iraqi pilots flying here, we know what's gonna happen next. There'll be a purchase of those planes. We will tie not only the Iraqis, but others to our Purpose Industry, and as it happens today that those who once went to school here are now high-ranking in a large number of developing countries or in the non-classified countries that we once belonged to. Compared to all the other countries, we have, always, at the beginning, before the talks start, one plus, just because we've educated people who are in those high places today. Then it's not good, but I'm asking you to confirm it to me, maybe my information isn't right, that Iraqi pilots come in here, to provide them with a time-out to play some football games, but that they're flying on a "Lasta" plane, because that plane wasn't built so it could be used for the initial training of the pilot, and that when it first took off, that only experienced pilots could fly on it. It's clear why we need Lasta. Essentially, or only in one sentence is the answer – can anyone play with the reputation of our dedicated industry? Is it true that this project is very late, which is certainly talking about, that at least when it comes to Iraqis, there are certain problems and that some measures should be taken to find people who are responsible, why not meet their contractual obligations in time?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38968	Used from the time of the parliamentary group is 9 minutes and 45 seconds. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38969	Apropo contracts made with Iraq by the state-owned company "Yugoimport" SDPR, I never said it was the business of the century. That's what the director of Krusika said, Davidovic, at the Krusik factory, and I join that if the factory thinks it's the business of the century, it's the business of the century. I find it interesting that you continue to try to protect a private who allegedly produces certain ballistic equipment in Serbia. You even mentioned his name a little while ago. I don't know if it's a sponsor, but it's also interesting that you don't want to tell the whole truth. You say a new capacity was built. Where? Who built it? At that same factory, Krusik. Right? It's a state-owned factory. It is true that certain segments of these vest imports. And who doesn't import them? Does that other manufacturer not import them? Just tell me? Import them, too. It is true that with the capacity built, along with these import components imported, it was the cheapest offer on the market. Cheaper than the offer of one who even manages to get the opportunity to protect his personal interests in parliament. You have half the information on 20 properties. First of all, the Department of Defense is not a contractor. We're someone who promotes our defense system and the defence industry, but we don't carry out a contract or work on those contracts. Companies in Serbia and businesses work on these contracts. It is true that "Lasta" is a project if I am not mistaken, in 1995, no, 1985, and we no longer know how long the project is, it ended in my term. As minister, I insisted on the VTI that the project be completed. It is true that 20 such aircraft have been sold to Iraq. What you don't know, three aircraft have already been admitted by Iraqi pilots. They're supposed to be transporting to Iraq these days. More importantly, it's true that finally, the Utva entered Pancheva's production of aircraft, which probably hasn't been for decades. Are there certain problems? You see, in production, you can't rely on tradition. You have to go to quality. The tradition of production is beautiful in marketing, but when you need to adopt something new, it can't by tradition, because all this new stuff doesn't require tradition, it requires new technology and new knowledge. Unfortunately, new technology in Serbia exists in a small number of factories and businesses. They are mostly in those factories and businesses that have invested exactly those countries that have been mentioned several times today as hostile. On the other hand, I have to tell you that you know that we're developing and ending the famous Bumbar, and we're done with the Sparrow who's going to be flying these days at the promotion and making the most of it to contribute to the defence industry and help export it. What's a fact, that contract was just one of the contracts that were made. I'll tell you that we'll get one contract very soon, which I won't say is a contract of the century, but I'll tell you that the contract that's at the level of the best contracts is, say, exports of tanks to Kuwait in the 1990s. Now we're preparing a new contract that will be a transfer of technology and knowledge and something very important, which is that we finally export our brains, which we haven't done in a long, long, long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38970	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38971	Mr. Minister, maybe we didn't understand each other. Absolutely when it comes to this private firm, I don't want to be her promoter here. But certainly, any company that manufactures Serbian protective equipment will have to import those special fabrics primarily from the Netherlands. But to import those vests from Israel, that means that around then all segments are imported and only here is something from China, something from Israel. Now that you've said we've already turned three planes over to Iraq, did you think they were three Last-type aircraft? Anyway, I say hello if that's the case, because then you confirm that the Lasta project has no problems at all. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: There is none.) ) Well, Mr. Minister, I thank you for the information.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38972	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38973	Do we not hear each other well or do I not speak loud enough? There are problems, I stress, for many years and Utva and other factories did not have production at the level they now have. "Utva" hasn't even produced planes in years. So it's collapsed in the course of the bombing, on the one hand, and technologically totally devastated. As the SDPR enters the company, it returns to the market and finally Serbia enters those countries that produce the school plane. We will agree that it is a small number of countries at the level of all Europe and the world. There are problems. There were certain delays, but as defence minister, I do not give answers. For what? I'm not responsible. You understand, ask those questions to those responsible. If the Iraqi side, you understand, doesn't say there's a problem with contracts and deals, but you tell us that here, then I wonder whose interest you're talking about. It is a clear need for information to be placed in the agreement with the Arab countries on the alleged high participation of Israeli goods in those contracts, in order not to break those contracts, as it is known that Arab countries do not want to buy equipment from Israel. You tend to do it right now, and you're doing it for the interest of that same private firm that you just mentioned yourself and I can even document it for you. So it's common knowledge that the price of the product that this company had in its time when you were at the Department of Defense was always such as to buy. For what? Because all you had in TOC was the certified goods. It's gone and it won't be. We opened the market and whoever wants to sell in the country and abroad must have quality and price. We can't sell more expensive abroad than anyone is offering us. Ask around what was the unit price per piece. So it's just not natural, and I don't see at all why you're allowing yourself, as a man who's been in the system, to support someone who's made huge money at the expense of the system you belonged to. So, total absurdity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38974	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. The time available for the LDP parliamentary group is seven minutes. After him, the word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38975	The President-in-Office, respected Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if European integration is one of the foreign policy objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, then it is quite logical that the ruling coalition and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as its short-term goal, assumes the LDP objective to be defined as the realisation of the Euro-Atlantic integration project, which means the start of Serbia's accession to the pact, for security, political and economic reasons. Bearing in mind also the fact that the declared military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia is unsustainable because it rests on one sentence in the KIM resolution adopted by the Serbian Parliament several years ago and how much of the KIM resolution today has life in it and can be applied, the same sentence can be the basis that the Republic of Serbia continues to be military neutral. Why are we talking about the security, political and economic aspects of Serbia's accession to the NATO Pact? For the simple reason that no country in the environment today leads politics against NATO's pact, as led by the Republic of Serbia. Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Macedonia, Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, all these are the countries that are NATO's pact members or which have submitted a bid for NATO membership. It is quite understandable for Serbia to do so, too, in order to strengthen its security guarantee, from one. If we are talking about a political aspect, we must clearly here in the Serbian Parliament say that the NATO Pact is no longer just a security category, that the NATO Pact, in addition to this security component, carries in itself a political and economic component, i.e. in the NATO Pact, all those countries that wanted to strengthen their democratic capacity. With NATO membership, Serbia will finally be able to say a lot of that policy that it created from this country in 1990, which was not worth mentioning on the international scene, i.e. we will be able to remove the atmosphere of NATO membership, which allows the creators of the 1990s politics, a very fast engagement and a very fast collection of signatures when the Minister of Defence only mentions the NATO Pact in an interview. Also, if we are talking about economic aspects, we must say that NATO membership is taking a decisive step in increasing foreign investment, because investments go where money is safe, and they are only safe in those countries that have solved their security problem and also, all countries that have passed the transition process, as currently Serbia is going, and which have become members of the European Union, have been through the NATO Pact accession process first, and in this process there has been a sudden increase in foreign investment. At the very end, I would like to say that LDP has never had a problem with the military as an institution, but we have had too often a problem with everything the Army has done as a political instrument for some political elites. Also, the Serbian Army, or the Yugoslav Army, has often been abused in the past years, i.e. in the last years of the 20th century. We must finally break this practice, and we can only end this practice by transforming the Serbian Army and transforming the Serbian Army into such an army that will be an equal partner to all NATO-led armies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38976	Four minutes have been used by the MPs' group. The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and after that, the MP Smiljana Milisavljevic and she was last registered on the list of MPs in the application for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38977	How much time do I have, Mrs. Comic?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38978	The parliamentary group is available for 22 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38979	Don't worry, I'll buy you a little time to go to this Europe as soon as possible. Of course, Mr. Sutanovac, anything I say, please don't take it personally. You have great sympathy for me, first of all, because you learned the good western border of Serbia, you have repeatedly demonstrated that you know it. That value of yours court on that border, that's something problematic, but you remember the exact corridor, angles, dots, that's where I support you absolutely. Second thing, you're my Toplician. Where do I get from a hero's Toplice on each other? It doesn't work. There's no Micuna, so let's be stronger. It's not just a joke, it's a big one. Now I'd like to take a turn. You see, ever since we included these young MPs of ours, they reported themselves, Mr. Sutanovac. See what this Stevanovic did? Nicely explained, you're attacking him, the hope of the poor girl, except she hasn't been crying yet. But here's the paper from the community, from their structures, I'll give it to you later. So everything Stevanović said is written here. He has the capacity to say so, so you interpret him as you wish. I'll give it to you later, just to confirm that, when it comes to the SRS, we don't say it at all at random, what comes across, like a jungle like that, which my Nisils would say, but it still makes sense, there's a system. But let's go back to these nine laws, not ten, as we just heard, concerning the cooperation of our army with foreign armies. You see, you said, over the past ten years, we have received, or a little more, help from these states in the NATO Pact. What do you mean by help, Mr. Sutanovac? We've also got tape bombs, we've got poored uranium, we've got a kind of epidemic, as Paja Momchilov and his fellow doctors say, this dying of cancer, but of course, I'm not putting what I'm saying to you on the burden, on your soul. You know who bombed, who threw, who circled here, who hired the Mercy Angel for KIM and hit Novi Sad. You know that. Next, you said that in the last few years, we've had big investments. Let me remind you, in 2000 there were words – as soon as the DOS came six and a half billion across the border it was coming. Someone believed it. People also believed in a thousand-euro free action. Free shares of a thousand euros? How much is that? Well, it's not like that. It was "Fiat" and so on. That is for everyone who declares it, and for those who agree, they are complicit and believe in it. You say two billion and 700 million of some investments have come. Believe that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia didn't see it, they didn't even feel it. I'm not saying it went through the Department of Defense. It's one policy, a pro-European policy. There's some help coming. It is known how much the services paid abroad cost. You know everything, and you wash money, and so on. Mr. Sutanovac, I'm not burdening you at all. You don't need to feel called or anyone in this room. But I'm just telling you that when information is reported on these investments, so is help, whether the Greenfield is etc., it's not noticeable. As soon as it's less noticeable, it heats up the suspicions. It's a perfectly normal logical process. When citizens think and reason like that, it's not a narrowed consciousness, you know, but it has some basis to think about it. You're talking about some investments, if some foreigners hadn't come, some of ours wouldn't have been able to work, etc. So you mentioned some companies. I don't want to get into it. There was a contract yesterday, so says the plant's moving there in Leskovac, for each new employee of four thousand euros, the state gives etc. That's not what you said. That's what Junior said in Leskovac yesterday about socks. It was on TV. I trust RTS. Do you know why I trust him? Because I'm paying the subscription. I wouldn't pay a subscription to tell you honestly, but I have to pay because you'd call me later, so they can tell me what kind of MP that doesn't pay a subscription is. That's why I'm paying because I'm so thick, because I'm scared. Anything and anything you can make up here. Now let's see what you've made up. Completely unnecessary, Mr. Sutanovac, you've come into some discussion with us. You know that we have this press-clipping, that we record everything, remember everything, etc. You see, on May 31st 92, there were federal elections for the Federal Assembly, two councils, the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic. For the Greater Republic, though, it was not since it went through the National Assembly. The government is formed. Head of the Government Milan Panic. Make sure it's not a Serbian radical. Put it wherever you want. After a few days, the first SRJ president, Dobrica Cosic, was elected. He's with everyone in friendly relationships, but he doesn't like the SRS. Don't put it on us, please, it's not nice. Foreign Minister Ilija Djukic. Since he came from China, there was an ambassador there, he probably didn't even know there was an SRS at the time in SRJ. Minister of Information - Miodrag Perišić, one of the founders of DS. I'm only talking about facts, please. The Grubač guy was a reformist, etc., but he belongs to you more than we do. I'm fenced. From Tibor Varadi, I'm building up, he's not a Serbian radical. Please don't attack him. And not to talk any further. Would you like me to count more of your staff? [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Okay. In the assembly was Mr Dragoljub Micunovic, Desimir Tosic. You don't know at the time, I was an MP and I was sitting here, too, and Micun was sitting there. Desimir Tosic, Miroljub Labus. Miroljub Labus was remembered for teaching him what the budget was. He didn't know what the budget was for two years. And it was this one that the ambassador was in America, a professor at the Faculty of Economics, I forgot his last name, but we were there. You know that even then the Act on Material Transformation of the Yugoslav Army was passed. I suppose those who took off the uniform, sitting next to you, to remember that period, are also covered by apartments and material and technical means, etc. Anything to remind you, I can remind you of Pale. I don't see any harm in eating vo there, let me tell you right now. When Serbs cooperate with each other, I'm too pleased to tell you that, but somehow I find it strange that you give up everything and everything. I was glad when Radovan Karadzic crossed the Drina and went to Micunovic or Ljuba Tadic. It was really nice to meet you. You don't have to give it up. What are you attacking the SPS? No, it's your coalition partners, whether you like them or don't like them, sit in some room and make a deal. Don't fuck with us, then we were haunted. Em, that's when they chase and now they're chasing again. Come on, find some measure. So, today's program is recommended for all ages because it's quite helpful. Someone said, there's Cole, Costa just said that. He says, "What is your position on Spain and so on, if I understand correctly?" Do you know what this is about? Our basic message was in the opening statement, and I gave it on behalf of the SRS, to withdraw these bill proposals. Well, we respect that Spain did not recognise independent Kosovo, so we gave you support when you honored the ambassador or gave you a medal. We support every country that has the courage to say it does not recognise independent Kosovo. We also support every country, and we believe that the friendly one in this dispute, that is, because it is not a dispute, since there are no formalally opposed parties, has given us a positive opinion before the International Court of Justice in favour of our position. We appreciate it, we respect it. We say openly, these are our true sincere friends. But, please, there are some things we need to stop, to concentrate, not make a mistake. Watch what the Department of Defense says. Mr. Sutanovac, this is from your site, the Ministry, so that everything I read, if you object then you either object to yourself or to this man of yours from the Ministry who gave the interview. The secretary of state isn't a cat's cough. It's still an official of the Ministry, it's from your site downloaded, where you say what your ministry's priorities are. But these are the priorities of state policy. The Ministry of Ecology can put the environment first, but the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is known that they must follow what the state policy has outlined, according to priorities, as the competent authority has determined. Look what you said. "Priorities: European integration, defence of territorial integrity and sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, regional co-operation and economic co-operation with the world. Why don't you turn him around a little bit? We as a state depend much more on maintaining territorial integrity and sovereignty than on Euro-Atlantic integration. I watched one last night on television, they say he used to be president, so he says "both Serbia and the world". So there's no alternative, he's pushing, but he's gone to The Hague. You delivered him to The Hague. That value criterion is something problematic, suspicious. You know, who the snake burns, he's afraid of the lizard. Now here's an example of these texts of your agreement that you gave us here to ratify. That's a very interesting thing. Based on our experience, we don't have to go too far, not to go to the diligans, as someone here said yesterday, or the scribe pigeons, or go to the 1990s, or start from 1381. Mr. Sutanovac, you just said that those rumors, those writing pamphlets, they're bullshit. Just to remind you, in 1981, in Pristina, here's Veljko, he's going to confirm to you, behind you, student demonstrations are going because of a plate of beans in a dormitory. Isn't that right, Veliko? They said it was an excuse. This pamphlet can be an excuse, but something big can work. You don't have to go into detail, I get it. I understand that all the civil servants who perform abroad are spies. They're spying on their country, and I support that, let me tell you right now. And I support, if these two gentlemen, Mr. Sutanovac, Branislav Milinkovic, are our ambassador there, and this military representative of yours, Nebojsa Djukanovic, general, brigade general, if they go there to collect that documentation to get us to meet the enemy, there is every support. That you were at some school, if it's in the function of knowing how the enemy breathes, so I support you. I support you, here's Costa and I go to this NATO Parliamentary Assembly, just spying. Let's get the paperwork together so we can hear what they're saying, what they're thinking. Now we find that the main thing is energy. That's why wool is at the EU, when it comes to Russia -- there's a danger if the pipeline and the pipeline go down, there's an economic crisis in Western Europe. That's why they respect them. We support it, and that's why I don't give you a lot of crap -- these flyers, the bumblebees, the worms, etc., no, that's not what I'm interested in. It's a waist. I'm interested in politics. Give the effect of that policy. Mr. Sutanovac, here's an example. I don't expect you to answer me right now, to tell you the truth, don't take your name. Hope, I don't expect you either. Here's the thing. I have taken this proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum, so there is now the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, if we leave out this military co-operation with regard to the league's athletes, then I need to draw attention to you in the preamble of this agreement, attitude 2 says – given the need to contribute to the strengthening of peace, stability and development of relations between countries in Europe and the world, in the spirit of the UN Charter. Look out, the United Kingdom is calling for the UN Charter, and then the Helsinki Final Act and the Paris Charter for New Europe. I'm referring to this file. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the former SFRY, has called for these acts -- that borders cannot change in Europe, that they must be respected, that co-operation, neighbourship, etc. Well, the Charter says there can't be a bombing. It is known, the Security Council, because its main task is to preserve peace and establish peace, but it knows how the resolution is made, how decisions are made, which are blocked by states, what is blocked, etc. You see, they're the ones who broke it, so we have proof that it's been broken. Why do we have proof? Well, we conducted the procedure, so you represented, when I say "you," the new government represented that lawsuit against the NATO pact. Our Djeric represented there, he went, fought, we fell into jurisdiction. He says the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was not a member of the UN, not applicable to the Statute. Well, it doesn't lie to the devil, after two years -- it's applied to the BiH lawsuit. Look at the criteria. All these charters I mentioned, international documents, this one universal and these two relating to Europe mean that there is no violent change in borders. They even went so far as to suspect that there could be a conflict in some territory, whether between the two states or within a country the OSCE sent its observers to calm it down, to sort it out, etc. – and they violated it. Even the Germans, you remember in 1999, for the first time since World War II, were given the right to intervene in a state of war, because of their past and the aggressive war they waged, they suffered those sanctions. Now you tell me when to trust them. What, now they're going to change their minds about the Charter of the UN, the Paris Charter of New Europe? That document hasn't changed. These are all documents from 1980 and some years, which bound 1990, 1991, 1995 and 1999, and when we wanted to apply Resolution 1244 through the Security Council, etc. So they said, "Well, the matter is done." The American said in front of you - forget what you said. Here we go to this second contract. The same is the agreement with Germany, and the preamble in paragraph 2 is said – the Paris Charter for New Europe, so the OSCE documents etc. I'm just giving you examples, so you can't put your faith in everything, because I get the impression that this is where you believe in everything. As soon as something comes from the EU, it is so – it must be accepted, it must not be rejected. It's not good for us – we know it's wrong, but we have to show ourselves that we accept it all, that it's all some value. I would like Serbia to be a centralist state, no less than France -- that's what I stand for. But you're changing the criteria. You say it is in France, but it's not in the Netherlands, it's not in Belgium. Then we'll get what's from Holland and Belgium to apply it here, and we won't get what's from France. That's how you interpret these European standards. Of course, we care about good neighbourly relations with everyone. Of course we care even more about being friends of those who understand our position and of course we need to cooperate, but that co-operation must not mean that we give up something, that we agree to something. The basic problem with these contracts, Mr. Sutanovac, is that I now state our position. You may not like it, but that's our attitude. We believe that these priorities discussed by the President of the Republic, the government has declared themselves, I see that you have also accepted in the Ministry, yes, so after these words -- these are defences of territorial integrity and sovereignty at KIM, regional co-operation and economic co-operation with the world, and European integrations if they are your first priorities. We've just had a little bit of a change of priorities, what for? It tells us the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we've all been campaigning to bring in exactly the same constitution, remember, so we've been swallowing things, some things have been a mess, but it doesn't matter. We care about KIM being in the preamble, so we took an oath to the President of the Republic - fidelity to KIM. That's the story. That's the story, and there's that story and the other part. Russia believes a new security system should be developed in Europe. (EXCLAIMS FROM THE O.R.: It's been a while. No, I've got two more minutes. You have come to understand that I have honored you. I didn't buy you any. I was just about to buy you some time, so I care that we're not going as fast as you think we are. It should be critical to look at everything and interestingly, Hope, to look at everything – to constantly draw a line and see if it is of any action plus for Serbia or minus. If it's minus, get away from it, it's not working. That's our policy. It's not our policy to fight with you, it's our policy to warn you not to make a bigger mistake, because anyway we have to take over from you in a few years to save this country. That's how it was in 1998. Everyone made a deal, so they couldn't make a deal. They're on their way with preparations to kidnap KIM. We entered Serbian radicals, so much so, at least in a year, we stopped it. At least in a year, I'm not satisfied either, or you're not happy to exercise power and you think you need some things better. Of course it needs better. We're here to warn you not to mess up too much. Here, as you can see, there are no ugly words. I commended Mr. Sutanovac because he is my countryman and we spies when we go abroad to collect that documentation, to understand all this, Mr. Sutanovac means energy, climate change and ban trade in these nuclear weapons, these are priorities. That should be our priorities, too. While this thing with Saric and these guys cleans it up a little bit. It's impossible for a billion and 300 to be washed in the state without any government officials being held accountable. Who politically supports it, I know you do, but when the time comes and you, Mr. Sutanovac, will tell us. I've been buying you three seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38980	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38981	I think that this discussion has also shown that we are both fundamentally and in a political being so different that we have a hard time paving out. My approach to the work that I'm doing is to go to the agreement, to the talks, to the arrangements, to try to get Serbia back to those paths it was on before 1998, before 1991. The fact is, there's a double, double philosophy approach to the problem we're facing, the problem of our territorial integrity at KIM. Your approach, which you're promoting here today, is the approach of the '90s -- to conflict with everyone, at all costs, so much as we endure. Unfortunately, this approach has led to us being devastated today so as not to remember long, long years in Europe. My approach and approach to the government is to try to raise our reputation through conversations, integration, agreements, and through the creation of a partnership, above all, because in a political friendship I don't believe as much as I don't believe in your leader's godfather's godfather's godfather's godfather. So, I'm talking about partnership, and then with our partners, we try to do something that you forcefully tried, and we end up the way we ended up. It is absolutely your legitimate right to have such thinking, it is legitimate for you to have the right to think that Serbia should force it to go after Karlovac – Karlobag – Virovitica, etc. I know geography perfectly. I served an army in those places. But I also think it's legitimate to tell you that this policy can no longer pass in Serbia. It cannot pass in Serbia not only for my sake, but for our future generations. We don't have time for that kind of politics anymore. We're not a decade late, every decade in this century is half a century past. I don't think we really have any personal conflict, and don't apologize to me in any way when you're talking here, because I don't see you as a man who can insult me, I can only have pity on the policy that you're promoting here, but that's your right and your thing. The fact that we're countrymen, it's a great honor for the countrymen, but unfortunately nothing else connects us. I agree that the problem of donations given in Serbia is so great that this money in Serbia is invisible money. It's something I'm trying to explain to them in conversations with strangers, that we know better than they do. But you can't say they didn't give anything, you can't minimize it. Today, when you look at practically every hospital, home of health, kindergarten, school, the municipality has something that it received through a donation from the EU. It's just that it's true. Today, when you look at ambulances across Serbia, you will see the EU mark and that is also a donation. So, there's a lot of things, but I have one comment myself, and I'm saying, I'm trying to solve it with my partners abroad in a way that when you get a donation to make it visible even to those who are enemies of that donation, but they use that same donation. It's something that's very difficult, it's something that's bureaucratic. Unfortunately, beyond the borders of our country, there is a bureaucracy that gives you certain timings and terms, and you can't change that. On the other hand, I am fully convinced that this set of documents that are being ratified here today, as well as those documents that will be ratified, hopefully after the first point, we are entering a second set of documents that are in the field of foreign affairs and justice, which I will represent on behalf of the Government here, contribute to better credibility and strengthening our country's position, both in the country and outside our country. So, regardless of tradition, friendships, I say, we have to look for partners. Unfortunately, fortunately, however, we are where we are. Everyone in our environment has defined where to be. We can put our heads in the sand and think that the storm will pass, for as long as we keep our heads in the sand, but unfortunately that's not how it happens. Ignoring the problems, ignoring the time we live in, I'm afraid we'll go back, first of all, to that main problem, and that's the problem of life and the elemental existence in Serbia that was in the time that you managed this country. In the first place, if you ask what is for me as a man who is a Social Democrats in the soul, who believes that in Serbia you can live well, is the quality of life. To defend our Kosovo, our citizen must have a job, he must have a salary, he must not think about tomorrow in terms of whether he can survive. It is so important for me to understand that these agreements, which do not say that economic character, contribute to the promotion of our country and our defence industry and enable them to employ capacities in Chačka, Valjevo, Užica, Kragujevac and some other factories throughout the country, even in Panchev, which were economically and technologically dead as a factory. I thank all those who have so far had the need to criticise, but I am sorry that I have not really heard any criticism that would lead to a debate at some level that I would like to be in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38982	The word is a folk letter from Smiljana Milisavljevic. She's the last one registered on the speaker list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38983	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, co-workers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is high time to hear a woman's voice on this subject. I am sure the minister will agree with me that in Serbia only when women are headed by the ministries of power will we be fully one democratic society relieved of all prejudice. For example, there are 16 men and only one woman in the Assembly Committee for Defence and Security, in which all parliamentary parties participate. [[Applause]] On the other hand, what is good increases women's interest in enrolment in military schools and academia. Of the candidates reported, 20% are women. In this connection, a conference of women in the security sector should be held in Belgrade this October, dedicated to the ten-year adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1325, under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, and organised by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia. If, by then, we here as the National Assembly adopt a national action plan for implementation of Resolution 1325, it will be a great opportunity for our country to appear as the first in the region among the former countries of the socialist arrangement to adopt the document of this kind. It is important to stress that the resolution has a binding character for all UN members. Its application in the world, though not at an envious level, has so far applied only 20 out of as many as 200 countries. I will talk today about the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway in the area of defence. The Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway is bound by a decades-long friendship, whose foundation is the human and solidarity of the Norwegian people towards our prisoners of war interned in Nazi camps in the territory of occupied Norway during World War II. Friendship and well-intentioned attitude towards Serbia The Kingdom of Norway has demonstrated in recent years by providing assistance to the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, which aimed at modernising, rationalising and improving our defence system. The Norwegian side has seen that Serbia has quality soldiers and experts and that it is possible to achieve mutual benefit and interest through co-operation. In 2006, the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation in the area of defence was signed, followed by concrete forms of co-operation, investment, improvement of material and human resources. I consider it necessary to give some examples showing why the Kingdom of Norway should be recognised and to support the continuation of bilateral co-operation with it in the area of defence. In 2007, the U.S. The Kingdom of Norway donated two modern mobile Polish hospitals to VMA. It also contributed to stabilising opportunities in southern Serbia. In fact, Norway donated funds to establish a civil-military co-operation department based in Vranj, which plays a very important role in building trust in Serbia's military among the local population of ethnic heterogeneous municipalities. The possibility of members of the army reaching the farthest villages is facilitated, connecting with the local community, helping people and trying to identify local problems. The highest level of co-operation between the two states in the area of defence was reached in 2009 and in the first half of 2010. Namely, the Serbian Army's Sanitary Team, as part of the Norwegian contingent, is engaged in a UN-sponsored peacekeeping mission in Chad along with representatives of other countries. They provide healthcare to UN members and locals and perform operations. In this way, I think you'll agree with me that they've become their own ambassadors to their country. Far from that co-operation being the most important achievement in the defence portfolio. First of all, it's a return of trust in the military and a return to the reputation of a military call. This is an indicator of the trend in interest in enrolment in military school and high school, which was particularly expressed in 2009 and early 2010. We also have cooperation in the field of military education. Officers from some countries are coming back to school with us. We currently have a group of Algerian army officers in postgraduate studies. This contributes greatly to the promotion of the entire defence system, as well as the defence industry. It was completed and placed in function of the South Military Base on the Cepotin Hill near Bujanovac, which is the largest and most modern base in the region. The co-operation of the Serbian and KFOR military along the administrative border within the common patrols is of great importance. For example, KFOR and Serbia's army of two warring parties have become partners and their co-operation is crucial in the region. To advance this co-operation, it is certainly a disputed participation of KFOR in the formation of so-called. Kosovo Security Forces. As I come from a region under KFOR direct management, I live in Zvecan, I have experiences that are not often mentioned at the official level. There are areas where KFOR has not responded to its task. But we can't say he didn't even meet the Serb community at KIM. Hence, a kind of chilling among Serbs and non-Albanians by enclaves due to a frequent drop in KFOR's number of troops in the KIM territory. In the year 99, we were upset that KFOR was coming to KIM. Believe me, today we are just as upset that the number of KFOR members in the KIM territory is shrinking. We know that the Serbian Army is essentially and dominantly directed towards defending the country and establishing peace in the region and everywhere in the world where this peace is threatened, so co-operation with all the armies and countries of the world is the country's strategic plan, and that is certainly the most important reason why I will vote for this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38984	Six minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of a parliamentary group, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 93 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? National MP Miroslav Markicevic, deputy president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38985	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission, Mr. Minister, we have a dozen laws here, which is a legal form, and in fact we need to approve here, as a National Assembly, ratifications, or agreements that you have already signed with a dozen countries on co-operation in the area of defence. As far as New Serbia is concerned, in principle, we don't mind that our country, the Ministry of Defence, is working with many countries in the field of defence, because it's such a time in the world that it's also advisable, it's just a question of who and when? When we look at these agreements that you signed, they seem to be almost in the same shape, from word to word. However, I have been trying, Mr. Minister, to see some of the agreements with some countries and I have some differences and I have freedom, if you'll allow me to give you a chance to answer a few questions. What I want to comment on first is an agreement with the Republic of Slovenia. Article 3 in the area of co-operation, among other things, says: "Co-operation between the parties will develop especially in the following areas", and I am interested in military history. I'm interested to ask you, in a human way, did you, during these talks, negotiate before signing with the defence minister, seem to me his name is Jelusic, discuss some of the unpleasant parts of our common history in our common state? I'm sure you know I'm referring to the death of innocent recruits in the early 1990s, when the overall accident in these areas began. At this point I wouldn't really be saying who's to blame, it's the subject of some other sessions and politics. I don't want to say on behalf of these people, but in the name of some justice, have you spoken to representatives of the Republic of Slovenia what they intend against these innocently murdered boys, recruits? Some of them weren't even armed, someone ordered them to be there, they had no evil intentions. We've had opportunities to see on many televisions and videos of how brutally brutally they were killed. I personally felt uncomfortable, and that's why I didn't go to a meeting with Jelko Kacin, after he talked to all the parliamentary groups, the president of our party went. Mr. Minister, I don't think I could resist not asking – do you feel a little guilty, man, about killing those people? I understand the struggle for independence, legal and illegal, every nation and every country, that is, we have an understanding, that is human right, to say the national human right of a nation to fight, but not in such a way. As we recall, Jelko Kacin was, let's say, some factor in those tragic days. Am I to say that I think he's responsible for the murders of those boys? That's what every Serb thinks, Mr. Minister. Please, if you've spoken to me, I don't want to make any sense of this, just to briefly answer if they have any intention, any obligation, in the overall process of apologizing to each other for everything we've done to each other, to apologize to someone and those families who have left some without the only son? Next thing I know, Mr. Secretary, it's an agreement with Iraq. As a Chacan, I intend to say a few words. Why do I say it like a Chachanin? As you mentioned earlier, Chuck. There's a "Freedom" factory in Chačka. Of course my theme is dedicated production. I'm personally interested in that, Mr. Minister, because my mother worked for 33 years in the dedicated industry at Freedom in Chačka, and I'm practically educated and fed off her salary that she made there. It's true that "Freedom," that is, our country at the time, had great co-operation with Iraq, why not say so, we sold them ammunition, what makes "Freedom" in Chačka. As a member of the Security Committee, I don't know if I have the right to say exactly what everything is produced there, but everyone knows – ammunition. About that co-operation has been restored, production has been restored, and it is probably also felt on the salaries of workers in "Freedom" in Cačka. Since I'm a former employee of Freedom Cachak, I'd like to get one piece of information from you. I left the factory a long time ago, but then he circled one among the workers, that the state at the time, and today the Republic of Serbia inherited those two-three countries that preceded the Serbian state, that the state of Serbia owed about 57m dollars to "Freedom" in Chačka. What about the debt and whether the state of Serbia, or the Ministry of Defence, is intending to return those funds, but rather to invest in the factory "Freedom" in Chačka in some way. I have to say that we were working with another country at the time, with which we have very close political relations today. I think the assumption of making these agreements and good political relations is. That state is called Iran. So, listening to Minister Jeremic and our country, I can assume that these good political relations with the state of Iran are primarily because they do not recognise the false state of Kosovo and Metohija and that is for every praise. But if you're here saying that we need to look first of all at our interest, including our economic interest, and if we're talking about some of the figures that our country is using through the Dedicated Industry, increasing production, making contracts of which you signed some of them, how much did I send out, why don't we and the state of Iran do that? They, Mr. Minister, are in Chačka, though, we're skilled Chacans, half an hour one, half an hour the other, and each other were entering the factory, and they shouldn't be naive, so believe that they didn't know about each other. So they needed ammo. We have it, and we're still at the top of the world's ammunition producers. Then why don't we make that deal with the state of Iran? To begin with, Mr. Minister, so much so, with the desire that my address to you would not turn into what it was last time into some personal controversy. I have no intention of doing this, and I have no reason to, but I want honest and correct answers to these questions. It's up to you to continue the course of our controversy, I don't think it should be.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38986	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38987	Very short. I don't know what DOD debt you're talking about in "Freedom" in Chačka. You said it was $56 million, and I really didn't get a chance to get to know each other. If you have that information, deliver it to me, and I'll take a look. On the other hand, perhaps you Chacans used to be skilled, so it was an hour's work one, half an hour another. But now it can't go on like that. Nobody's stopping you Chacans from doing half an hour one, half an hour the other. If Iran wants to buy something in Chačka, I assume Iran will call to buy. It may seem so simple to you and simply to sell something. But today's the hardest thing to sell, not produce. A private man told me – find out what can be sold so I'll build a factory for it. "Freedom" Cacak has a production that is very busy and I hope that one contingent of goods that has been sent to a very important country of the world will pass and will manage to codify in the catalogue of NATO standards as a producer that meets these conditions and will practically open up the possibility of selling to an even greater number of countries. On the subject of a shared history with Slovenia, I must tell you that I have said it openly there, and I can say it here too – I am sorry that the country as Yugoslavia was, and I am even more sorry that it fell apart in the way it fell apart. Since I run a ministry in which, for example, three planes fall, it turns out that two Hungarian pilots, one pilot who was killed by a Serb, his wife, Slovenska, one general has a woman from Macedonia, another from Slovenia, means that this spirit of Yugoslavism that existed in its best sense and today exists and lives within our armed forces and I think it's one more quality for the improvement of this country. I said I was sorry about what happened, and I really don't have any understanding about the things that happened, but I was trying to look ahead, too, to look into the future. You know, it's not principled when you're saying whether in these agreements we asked for Kosovo to be defined, whether in these agreements we insisted that there be countries that aren't in this pact or in that pact, and on the other hand, in every other trade today we co-operate wherever we can sell something, or even import, and we do that. So I am really trying to create an atmosphere where there will be no hatred that has been and in which on both sides, and I am glad that this Parliament has had enough strength, although individuals have not, to vote the Srebrenica Resolution. You said you expected in this trend of apology and on their part and now, believe me, it's much easier to talk about it and tell them that one question of responsibility is simply being imposed on the other. Jelka Kacina I met once in my life, or twice, not in Slovenia, and he is not an official of the Slovenian state. He is, as far as I know, an MP in the European Parliament and in no way affects the state policy of the Republic of Slovenia. As rapporteur, he influences the work of the European Union parliament, so I have not had the opportunity to speak to him in Slovenia, nor on Slovenia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38988	I'm concluding a joint single search. National MP Miroslav Markicevic is registered in the electronic system. You have no right to a replica. We are moving to a joint single search on the draft laws on the confirmation of international agreements on points 31 to 44 of the agenda. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38989	Mrs. Komic, a member of Article 85(1) has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So: "Sessions of the National Assembly, which are held on draft laws, development plan, spatial plan, budget, final account, Rules of Procedure, Declaration, Resolution, Recommendations, Decisions, Conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts by the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in 10 to 18 hours, with an end of one hour." I think it was a long-term practice to give a break at 1400 hours. We don't understand why you're in such a brutal way breaking the Rules of Procedure on one issue that is extremely banal, which is that one hour break? We now need to move within two minutes to discuss more than ten laws that are completely different from the laws on which the debate has just been concluded. I don't think there can be quality work, quality debates, quality poles, and I doubt any minister, including Mr. Sutanovac, can pay attention, without a break, to take part in a debate on such important laws that are now on the agenda. So, really, most kindly please, there is no need to break the Rules of Procedure – give that break for an hour, after that we will continue. I believe Mr. Sutanovac will enjoy a break, and here we invite him to coffee or lunch. But in order for this debate to be of quality, I really don't think there's any need to build a law-saving factory from the National Assembly, and that as MPs, we don't care what the quality of the debate about these laws is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38990	People's MP, I assume you know better than I do that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure and that it's a minute and 55 seconds as you've been saying the abuse of a member of 100. I also thank you for quoting the member, but the explanation says – with an interruption of one hour. Your desire to talk about practice is correct, good and we can agree on practice or not, but there are no violations of the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to speak, since I am bound by Article 100(1). When I open a joint single search, the National Assembly will be informed of when today, during the working day, there will be an end of an hour, to which I am bound by Article 85(1). We move to the 31st-44th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CULTURE, EDUCATION AND LAWAL ASSISTANCE DOCUMENT (joint Single Search) Therefore, pursuant to Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby inform the National Assembly that the President of the National Assembly is in charge of a joint single search of the point. From 31st to 44th agenda, in addition to the proposer's representative, Dragan Sutanovac, Defence Minister, and Snežana Malović, the Minister of Justice, called for the members to attend Mirko Stefanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Momirka Marinković, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Vojkan Simic, Assistant Minister of Justice, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Nenad Banović, Head of Administration and Drazen Maravic, Head of the Bureau at the Ministry of Interior, Danica Bajić, Director of the Directorate for International, Cultural, Educational, Scientific and Sport Cooperation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Dubravka Radevic, Council in Directorate, then Sanja Milinković, Head of International Affairs, Bozidar Jovanovic, V. Head of Foreign Ministry and Goran Tokic, Senior Advisor, Milisav Coguric, Independent Advisor and Vladimir Djeklic, Adviser at the Ministry of Justice. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on proposals for the agenda for items 31 to 44 and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 152 paragraph 3 and the corresponding Article94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary groups, and that is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group SPS - 18 minutes; Parliament group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorized them to be represented by Parliament MP Elvira Kovac, a group of minorities. During work, if any of the parliamentary groups are authorized by a representative, just deliver that the National Assembly is notified. Therefore, pursuant to Article 152 paragraph 3 and Article 142 paragraph 2. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the visa waiver of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on the Facilitated Procedure for the issuing of visas, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey on Technical and Financial Co-operation, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on the Laws of the European Public Law, the Proposal for the Law of the Crossing of the law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the Republic of Montenegro on the Cross-Cordining of the Treaty, the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union, the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union, on the Law on the Law on the Europeans and the European Union, and the Europeans, and the European Union of the European Union, and the European Union in the European Union, the European Union for the European Union, and the Europeans, and the European Union, and the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, and the European Union, the European Union, and the European Union, and the European Parliament for the European Union for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council, and the European Parliament for the Council for the Council, and the Council, and the European Parliament, and the European Parliament, and the Council, and the European Parliament, and the Council and the Council, and the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Before I give my word to the proposing representatives, on the basis of Article 85, paragraph 5, I am informing the National Assembly that today, after 1800 hours of discussion of the agenda points that are currently subject to our work, that on the basis of Article 85, paragraph 1, we will use paragraph 1, paragraph 1, about 16:30, 16.45 or between 16.15 and 16.45, the beginning of the break, and that in the course of today, if we finish the debate on the exactly open agenda points, we will move to a joint single search of the points that will follow and after these on the agenda. In accordance with Article 37(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the SRS parliamentary group will be represented in the debate, i.e. the authorised representative will be MP Zoran Krasic. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38991	I'll be very brief, I can see there's anxiety about that break, so I won't take much time. It is about laws on the validation of agreements, memos and other agreements signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia with a large number of countries and concerning the first status of our citizens on visa liberalisation and the possibility of movement in countries, both Europe and non-EU countries. On the other hand, there are a number of other agreements concerning co-operation in the field of culture, but I will participate in the debate. I don't want to take the time now, because I can see that everyone's in a hurry to get this over with as quickly as possible, so we can take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38992	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, he's not there. Does the Defence and Security Committee's rapporteur, MP Dusan Bajatovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the People’s Parliament of the Faith of Radet, which delivered an opinion at the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? Yeah. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38993	Ladies and gentlemen, the basic reason why I have issued an opinion on these points of the agenda is the fact that it is inappropriate to discuss 16 points of the agenda in a single debate. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, where I have singled out an opinion, there were no representatives of the Government with which we were able to speak on the Committee, and since you are constantly potential in the public and that the essence of parliamentary work should be on committees, we have seen and we know well that this is not the case. So, first of all, for the sake of the public, I want to say that this is how you deceive the public and that it only serves as an excuse when someone asks you why they are empty, like now, the benches of the ruling coalition's MPs. All four or five MPs are currently in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38994	I ask you to take care of the reputation of the National Assembly, that you do not count the MPs of any parliamentary group and that you do not present the lies about the deception of the public. It is our joint obligation to contribute to the reputation of the National Assembly by working together, and this is achieved by strict application of the Rules of Procedure, and I beg you, without doubting that you know what the provisions are, that you strictly adhere to them. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38995	Thank you very much. I pray to the gentleman of RTS who is monitoring this Parliament's work in direct transmission to show the public if I have just deceived the public when I said that there are not mostly representatives of the ruling majority here...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38996	People's MPs, I'm warning you. I said you can't say that the working bodies and the Assembly are cheating on the public, and you, as a national MP, can't count the MPs of any parliamentary group and do verbally anything that involves violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are clearly prescribed what the opinion and obligation of the MP, which separates the opinion of the working body in relation to the position of the working body on which the opinion is set out, is very precisely defined by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I ask that you also adhere to these provisions. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38997	Thank you. I said, I gave my opinion because the Committee as a working body of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, was not present as a representative of the Government. It is impossible to discuss in the Committee any proposal from the Government if no representative of the Government is present at the Committee's meeting, proposing certain acts for consideration and adoption to the National Assembly. Is this true, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Comic, accurate? It is amazing that this many points are combined into one unique debate, especially since in a certain number of these dots there are no touching points in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and there is no business opportunity to bring all the points together in this way into one single debate. All these draft laws on the validation of conventions, agreements, agreements, etc., as well as those discussed in this previous united debate, unfortunately insults the dignity of Serbian citizens. Not only are the texts of these laws and of these agreements, the conventions, it is difficult to list everything within 16 points, but the way government representatives act under these agreements, or these agreements are only signed to satisfy some form. This is essentially, in most cases, and I'll talk about it and we'll talk about it when the principle debate starts, in most cases, these agreements are just formally signed and applied unilaterally. In the case of an agreement, a contract, it is therefore understood that the parties have certain rights and obligations in relation to that agreement or the contracts they have signed. Unfortunately, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then these agreements are applied unilaterally. The Republic of Serbia then, or government in the Republic of Serbia, does not benefit from the rights given to it by these agreements, which we are discussing today, and not only by these, but also by many who have already been ratified and many who are not ratified, but only by the other party's party, the other party's party, uses maximum all its rights, and representatives of the authorities in the Republic of Serbia use only what the obligations of the Republic of Serbia are. You cannot convince us that such a way of applying these agreements can be in the interest of Serbian citizens and that it can be in the interest of the Serbian state. That is why we are both on competent committees and here we are obliged to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia to the pest control in the Republic of Serbia, to the pest, I am now speaking against what is now on the agenda. When we are instructed to illustrate how, I have to take advantage of that expression and apologize, how some others make fools out of us, because under some signed agreement they can also arrest our people, they can also seek extradition, and on the other hand, in some countries criminals from Serbia are hiding, those who have committed crimes in Serbia are hiding. That's why you sign these agreements, to give an alibi to those I must say, and you protect, because you allow them to hide out there under these agreements and be out of reach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38998	Five minutes. Thank you. Do the MPs of Natasa Jovanovic, Jadranko Vukovic, Branimir Djokic and Dragan Todorovic, who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u38999	Mrs. Komic, at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, we issued an opinion, given the fact that we had these military agreements in the previous discussion, i.e. a set of ratifications. Here now in this new series, as Mr Martinovic said, more than 10 points of the agenda are also agreements on the confirmation of the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on an easier procedure for issuing visas and the Government of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on visa waivers for holders of diplomatic and official passports. As representatives of the SRS, we were not against these agreements at the Committee's session, but we had a different position on the Committee. First, because of the fact that some of these agreements were signed, as they say, back-to-back, and on the other hand, because we thought that the board should have considered some of the other questions we asked before this. There were also associates, Mr. Spasojevic and other co-workers of Mr. Sutanovac at that committee session, that the Committee should deal with what is a priority for this country, which is the state of security in the country, not the ratification of these agreements, which were the points of the agenda at the time. We have failed to obtain information from Mr Bajatovic, who is currently still acting as deputy chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, although the public has not yet informed the public of its conflict of interest and its functions, as you know, more than this MP. We also insisted afterwards, when we were asked to discuss this under various conditions, we left the Committee, because at that point we did not fight, and they had absolutely nothing to do with the presence of a gentleman from the Ministry of Defence, but I am the deputy president of the Committee, to discuss what is currently a priority. Because it is obvious that after all our warnings and warnings by the then president, Mr Todorovic, who has been removed and all of us and the members of the Committee, and who are not, that the mafia is threatening the state and that these are serious threats and that it is not only the process of destabilising political opportunities through SNS and its leaders, both here in Parliament and their actions everywhere, so here and now, in a campaign for local elections, which, of course, is funded by tycoons and organised criminal groups, but also by the fact that this topic should be opened here in parliament. That's why we singled out our opinion, and the Committee was different. We will later, during the debate on these points of the agenda that are proposed, specifically talk about what is really about this topic that we want to impose, because of the interests of Serbian citizens and the dangers in which the state is at stake and all of these threats that come from organised crime groups, the mafia, which, of course, does not want well and which, in that sense, makes it all seem to be all the institutions of the system, including parliament, because it was the beginning of their process a year and a half ago, when a new non-parliamentary group was created, after the SRS' mandates were kidnapped. But later on, we really have a great opportunity to talk more about it and I hope and expect, Mr. Sutanovac, you are, first of all, vice president of the DS who is in power, a man who, in the right sense, is in charge of a single security sector, to actively engage in the discussion. Because, Minister of Justice, Mrs Malovic, who is also being referred to by these threats, as well as Mr Homen, the State Secretary who has also been called, are currently not in the O.R., may arrive to discuss this most serious and dangerous matter for our country and for our society in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39000	Do any of the MPs who have given their opinion want to explain? National MP Milan Veselinovic is in the electronic system, in the report I have. People's MP, there's no record that you've singled out an opinion on any committee. We'll check it out, MP. Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39001	The Honorable President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really hard to talk, even in 20 minutes, about all the draft laws we're discussing today. That is why I have decided, as part of our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to discuss an agreement on the validation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. Among other things, I am a member of a task force, which is unfortunately not yet formalized. She's called the Children's Rights Working Group. We're working with UNICEF and other NGOs. I will try to base myself on children's rights in my presentation which, unfortunately, we talk very little about within this institution, but a lot has already been done. Our country's legislation does not have a law that contains a general definition of child's concept, but a child's concept is implemented through defining the concept of full business ability. In accordance with the highest legal act, the Constitution and the provisions of the Family Law, it is defined that adulthood is achieved at the age of 18, that a child can actually be regarded as any human being below that age. However, the Criminal Code, under the notion of a minor, implies a person who did not turn 18, but besides the notion of a minor, the Criminal Code defines the term of a child – a person who did not turn 14 or a minor – a person between 14 and 18. When we talk about kids, we actually think about that category under 18, but mostly that category under the age of 14. This Convention on the Protection of Children From Sexual Exploitation and Abuse actually refers in many of its members to discrimination against marginalised groups, to discrimination against children, and I would therefore like to stress that there are currently two laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia dealing in particular with discrimination, namely the Law on Protection against Discrimination and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. But unfortunately, despite the fact that in the last few years the necessary legal rules have been passed, that a lot of this has been done from the point of view of law-making, the issue of discrimination still remains one of the biggest burning problems in this country. In that sense, they are still discriminated against, threatened, so-called. marginalized groups, so groups that are discriminated against in view of their differences, whether they're persons with disabilities, persons of different sexual orientation from heterosexuals, or that's why they're born, or half, or whether it's because of years. Unfortunately, children also belong to this marginalized group. Although there is a principle of protection of the best interests of the child defined by the family law and a number of our strategic documents, so a large number of strategies are brought by our Government, among which is for example. The anti-trafficking strategy in the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, does not consistently implement this principle of general protection of children's rights. In particular, Serbia has ratified the Convention on Civil law aspects of international child abduction and the central executive body for the implementation of this Convention is the Ministry of Justice. I'm really sorry that the only representative of the Department of Defense is present right now, and we've heard that these conventions that we're talking about today apply to a lot of resolutions and I sincerely hope that someone else might join us. The ministry of justice should implement this mentioned Convention on Children's Kidnapping, however, the service that should deal with these issues is not very efficient, and data on the number of processed cases remains unavailable. As mentioned in the introduction, the protection of children from exploitation was already provided by the highest legal act of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution and the Labour Act. However, whether and to what extent children's protection measures are being implemented remains unknown to all of us because there are no appropriate mechanisms for monitoring the application of these laws. We are all aware of the fact that the black labour market is still highly developed, where children work. Let the kids live and work on the street. I'd like a little more to refer to the child's right to protect against sexual exploitation and abuse. Sexual exploitation of children is sanctioned through several crimes. Our Criminal Code also prescribes in its 18th chapter the following crimes: subduing, enabling sexual intercourse, intervening in the pursuit of prostitution, i.e. showing, obtaining and possessing pornographic material, exploiting a minor for pornography. The latest amendments to the Criminal Code adopted last year have also set up two new crimes, very significant – to lead a minor to the presence of full-time actions, to exploit the computer network or to communicate with other technical means to carry out crimes against semi-freedom against a minor, i.e. severe penalties for these acts. We're all aware of the fact that the most sexual exploitation of children is done via the Internet and computer networks. By legal description of the criminal act of exploiting the computer network or communicating with other technical means to carry out a crime against semi-freedom, the Republic of Serbia, among other things, has committed itself to taking criminal sanctions, which we consider very significant, and who, using a computer network or communication with other technical means, deals with a minor, a child, a meeting and appears in the agreed place for the purpose of meeting and in relation to the production of child pornography. New amendments and additions to the Criminal Code have introduced a new measure of security, a measure of restraining and communication with the damaged. The Court may, by this measure, prohibit the perpetrator of a criminal offence from approaching the damaged area at a certain distance, prohibit access to space around the place of residence or place of work, prohibit further harassment of the damaged, or further communication with the damaged, if justified, if it can be considered that further carrying out such actions of the perpetrator of the offence would be dangerous for the injured. Parliament Club Manjina and I personally, I think we'll all agree on that, I believe those provisions create assumptions for more adequate protection of minors, as victims of those acts of sexual abuse. Unfortunately, accurate data on dimensions, specific forms of occurrence and characteristics of children victims of sales, i.e. trafficking in human beings, exploitation of pornography and prostitution in the Republic of Serbia cannot be given, since unfortunately, there is no such thing as creating a unique system of recording and monitoring of these phenomena. Some of the authorized ministries have their own recording and monitoring system, but unfortunately these systems are not mutually synchronised. In the mentioned areas of sexual abuse and exploitation of minors and children, an important source of data is research conducted by individual scientific institutions and various civil society organisations, and I would like to commend the most about Oebs and Unicef. However, the largest number of these studies relate to the indirect knowledge of the public and experts on these issues. The data we get from these, sometimes they're called shadow reports, so when NGOs do certain reports, shadow reports. They refer to public attitudes and sensibilities more, and less talk about concrete forms, characteristics and what is important to us, the extent of the frequency of these phenomena. The identified minors in most cases in our country, according to various studies, have been exploited in various ways. They were traded for marriage. Unfortunately, still established practice mainly in the Roma population. The children were forced to beg, they were exploited. There are no rare cases of multiple exploitation, such as exploitations in order to make marriage or to force begging, accompanied by sexual exploitation combined, both labour and sexual exploitation. Of course, as I have already mentioned, a large number of incidents are on the Internet. Many international agreements have been ratified in the Republic of Serbia and these ratified international agreements should be applied directly, but in practice, domestic authorities are directly applied in a negligible, very small number of cases, which imposes the obligation of state authorities, which I think is very important, to comply with the first domestic legislation with international norms and standards. The introduction of new solutions is happening, but it is slow and perhaps less visible in practice. I would also like to talk a little more about the concrete results that have been achieved in this field, namely the legal solutions that contain our legal system. The most important results achieved on the legislative plan on children's rights are more mentioned in my presentation of the Constitution, adopted in 2006, which explicitly speaks of children's rights for the first time in the constitutional and legal history of the Republic of Serbia. The highest legal act guarantees the right to freely develop a person. Forced labor and every form of human trafficking has been banned. Children enjoy human rights appropriate to their age and mental maturity. Children are protected from physical, psychological, economic and any other abuse and abuse. A number of important laws have been passed over the past few years, and I would like to make a few out of them. The Law on the founding of a system of education and training which, among other things, prohibits physical violence and insults the personality of children, or guarantees the right of a child of a student to protect against discrimination and violence. This law is a roof form for laws and it's brought a lot of things, but now I'm just based on this part. Family law established the obligation of the State to take all necessary measures to protect children from neglect, from physical, sexual and emotional abuse and from any type of exploitation, as well as the obligations of all children's and health educational institutions, social protection institutions, judicial and other judicial authorities, associations of citizens to inform the public prosecutor or custody authorities of the need and reasons for the protection of the rights of the child. Family law also establishes a child's right to independent representation in cases of conflict of child's interest and legal representative. It is clear that this is significant because very often children are, unfortunately, abused by their own representatives. The next very important law in this field is the health care law, which guarantees every patient's right to receive health care with respect to the highest possible standard of human rights and values. In this way, for the first time a child has the guaranteed right to physical and psychological integrity and to the security of his personality, as well as to respect his moral, cultural, religious and philosophical beliefs. I also wanted to mention the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information, which introduces some harsher penalties for the economic offense of founders, when it is unadjusted to children. There are more examples. To somehow sum up, the fighting track for children's rights and against all possible forms of child abuse has been defined by an action plan for child protection. One of the basic objectives of the children's action plan is to protect children from abuse and neglect. Within the framework of the activities on this plan, the coordination of the Child Rights Council, with the support of the more mentioned UNICEF and the five relevant ministries of our government in social security resolutions, the educational-examination system, the health care system, the police and the judiciary, are being continued to carry out activities on the protection of children. We must also mention the working group on the rights of the Serbian Parliament's child, led by Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, whose members, regardless of party membership, are very active in this field. The problems identified in the system of child protection from sales, exploitation, pornography and prostitution are, among other things, low levels of awareness of this problem, and especially children, about the problem of child trafficking, the exploitation of children in pornography and prostitution, an underdeveloped national child protection system against these dangers, an undeveloped information system for the collection of data on these problems, insufficient representation of child trafficking, the exploitation of children in pornography and prostitution in the regular school program of primary and secondary schools. I hope that in future, in cooperation with various NGOs and with the government, we can at least introduce health education in schools or find a pilot project that will work on various issues, including informing children about the dangers surrounding them. The results of various studies show, fortunately, that children still have some basic, although insufficient, information about exploitation and emerging forms of exploitation. But what can be seen from these studies and what is devastating is that children do not trust that the state can provide them with protection and are not at all familiar with the mechanisms of protection. The big problem is also the fact that media and peers are their primary source of information, which on the one hand shows that the state may not have done enough so far to make the necessary information available to children in an adequate way, and on the other hand indicates that preventive programmes should be organised through interactive peer education because children feel more free to discuss these phenomena and problems with them very close peers. The essence of special criminal and legal protection of children is based primarily on the social need, the common need for all of us to react more effectively to the threat and injury to the faces of the youngest age categories, i.e. the fact that these persons are in many situations due to specific adult and psychophysical development much more endangered than large, adult persons. What I would like to point out in the end is that with the latest amendments to the August 2009 criminal legislation, the possibility of easing penalties is also below the legal minimum, which is very significant. Therefore, Parliament club Manjina and SVM will support in the day to vote for ratification, to confirm all these documents. I hope that at least around the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse will have a general consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39002	The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39003	Mrs. Komic, it would probably take me five minutes to just count these laws that are in this united debate. That's pretty complicated. We've agreed to do something within the parliamentary group to share this work, but we still won't be able to cover all the laws that are under this joined agenda. For the sake of the public, there are some international conventions, protocols on which as soon as we enter the congregation procedure, and we cannot have any more significant influence because it is by the system take or leave. It's about international conventions and the Council of Europe. I see there's a protocol here. It refers to the 1949 Geneva Conventions. And it certainly is our obligation if we want to understand the connection with the civilized world, but that's some of our own depraved need. It's not just a matter of integration, but in the second half of the 20th century, imperialism has given foreign trade, international standards, etc. as one of its currents. That's probably not a bigger problem. There are other things that are really problematic. Of course, there are a number of laws regarding the validation of bilateral agreements, whether it is Switzerland, the United States and there is one concerning Turkey, some concerning visa relief and travel, some concerning diplomatic status, or diplomatic staff status, status of diplomatic staff. For all of them, it's characteristic, I'm expressing the SRS' position, which we have to make one distinction. Because we are entering some bilateral relations, first of all with friendly countries, and we are deepening these relationships, developing if that friendship is genuine and in mutual interest. There is one set, I think there are three laws, on confirming some agreements with the Republic of Montenegro. As far as I can tell from these dates, these are recent agreements -- August 2009, January 2010, and I see it's also January 2010. One is an extradition agreement, the other is on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters and legal aid in civil and criminal matters. Now the question is, are we in need of such agreements? Well, they are, if we're fighting crime. What is our practice with, say, Montenegro - well, the worst, least said bad. No one could boast. Is there any friendship? There are peoples, peoples living in Montenegro, and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the authorities in Montenegro are concerned, the same target is the same distance. Practically since 1995. Milo Djukanovic set out in every way possible to help bring down Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's regime, to bring down the regime. I was defending the state. I wasn't defending the regime. The SRS defended the state and the interests of the citizens, did not defend any regime. I often visited that Montenegro, watched what was going on, how it was going, and it was clear to everyone that it was slipping away, that it was leaving, but not only leaving, but also antagonism. However, there is something that has not gone, which remains as co-operation, which is organized crime. Montenegro was quite a safe house for criminals from the Republic of Serbia. When I say "from the Republic of Serbia", don't just tie it to residence, citizenship, but also as territory where a criminal is in charge. There was also a story about Zlatibor being the most important destination for the wintering of people from Montenegro. Well, they like prosciutto. But they don't like prosciutto, but that's where the materials are handed over -- these goods, these money. There we began to see first those beautiful jeeps, then smooth people, who seem to demonstrate European values to us. Just about seven or eight months ago, this government realized, maybe she'd realized it before, but they started thinking a little more seriously about stabbing someone in the back. Remember? Serbia managed somehow in the General Assembly to act on a decision to initiate the procedure to get an advisory opinion on the very declaration of Kosovo's independence, but immediately the day tomorrow, Montenegro recognised an independent Kosovo. So they opened the embassies, so I wouldn't tell you there Ulcinj, Comfort and that part there, now you don't even know who owns it anymore. Simply, the government in Montenegro, I potential power, the Mil Djukanovic regime, he is racing with Knjaz Nikola, to see who in Montenegro's history will be remembered as the longest dictator or ruler. Although it's hardly possible for the Book of Nicholas to pass. But he's obviously pushing. He used to be the youngest prime minister, you see now how much he celebrates, almost 20 years he's already in power. It wasn't for a while, but the devil took the joke, got back faster. Now the question arises, what is it that binds them, when I say them, power in Montenegro? Do they be bound by the Constitution, the law, the international convention, the regulation or the cruel personal interest? Yesterday or yesterday in Montenegro's parliament, they had a debate on the confidence of the government of Milo Djukanovic. You know what argument was used -- what the SRS wrote in 2001 in the book Cane Frog, the Balkan king of the tobacco mafia, I guess something like that. But when it was written by the government in Serbia, she said – that Seselj something again, a conspiracy theory, like the Cane tailor, like these, like what the devil, it has nothing, etc. And that's what we described and what Happy Kessler said. Here they say, at the time the government said – it was all invented by the Rovinj tobacco factory. He says it's the conflict of these tobacco mobs. Then we looked at those books, and we saw in New York that there was a procedure against the great producers, Philip Morris, British Tabak, etc. There was a great expert here at the time, and he called the FIU, you know that agency, there was that Wolf Minic, so these guys arrested him right here. Unauthorized to carry a gun or something about a car, etc. And it was all covered up. We talked, warned, you laughed. You laughed sweetly, I must tell you. It was a reward—whoever gave some information will receive 300 thousand marks to solve what was left of the past. Vojislav Seselj writes that, you laugh again. You're making yourself laugh. We were talking about Milo Djukanovic sending a lawyer's sister to Bara for six months to take some of that prosecutor to cover it up there -- you're laughing yourself out. You're leading the case against Vojislav Seselj for slander. Yes, and the D.A. for public harassment. So he remained in the history of Danko Laushević, the judge who ruled, and forgot his immunity. At the time, Minister Vladan Batic was baptized with his left and right hands, as people exist in court. You laugh again, you smile sweetly. We're talking about changing its shape. Some times here in a joke, when you make a fuss about smokers, I say, don't touch smokers, they regularly finance both the mafia and the state, every morning on the street. Foreign producers said, if we buy these factories in Serbia, smuggling will end - the boom of smuggling. We said the bamboo sold it there, and now you're attacking someone who sold the tobacco industry in Nis. We warned you all on time. And you're laughing yourself out. You're smiling so sweet. Of course, like a half hour ago, nonsense, conspiracy theory, and those qualifications, and you're making it, I'm not mad, I'm used to it. When you attack someone, they can be proud. Like it's a shame when NATO honors someone with a medal, like a big fan of the NATO Pact. It almost gets one of those medals, and the fact that it's hard for you, that it's embarrassing for you, that whoever bombed you, to honor you with something, so he says, that's our real representative in Serbia. Bruca and shame, but he's proud of it, what to do to him. All of you in time warns, we, absolutely everything. I can also tell you about the smuggling of Niksic through Milic, boxers, cigarettes, fuel -- it all worked out. The state had to know. The state couldn't, as the state puts its hand on its eyes, and it says, no. It's all right. Peace, peace is no one's fault, it's all fine. But when you cut the bar, you know, you cut the bar, the crocodiles get a little fat, then he starts playing the match and it gets very, very dangerous. This may seem a little funny to you, but I tried to explain to you that the political reasons for our dissatisfaction as to what the government in Montenegro is doing to us exists and that our anger is justified, I guess that's clear. As for this economic co-operation, please excuse me, since payment traffic in Serbia and the region has crossed over and is in the hands of banks, the state has lost all possibilities to control the flow of money, everything. Now what was domestic traffic is now foreign trade. What was internal payment is now a payment to abroad. It goes through banks of conto-root accounts, when it's rotated within the same bank, under the same name, that operates on the entire territory of the former SFRY. You go to Sarajevo, you look at the bank ads, just like you're in Belgrade. You go to Podgorica, just like you're in Belgrade, and the names of the banks, and the ATMs, and the racing, they open up next to each other, etc. You go to Budapest the same, you go to Pristina the same. Where's the state? She picks up the phone in slow motion when it comes to some kind of interest. Is that a state or some kind of personal? Probably more when it comes to a personal one, when someone gets arrested and there's a disturbance in organized crime. I am saying this to make it clear that it is a small one of these agreements when it comes to Montenegro, because it will be put first and foremost in the interest of Milo Djukanovic and what is around him, and what surrounds him. He has his own exhibits here in Belgrade. They boast, both Belgrade and Serbia should really be proud. Why? Because we're obviously the best country in the region. Anyone would like to be a refugee in Serbia, would not want to be in Croatia. Five hundred thousand refugees we have here. I guess that's proof that someone kicked them out of some territory. Multiethnicity remained in Serbia. There are incidents, some kind of disturbance, but it can't spoil it. There's some kind of break-in at those football games with the fans, but obviously it's the BIA that's holding to train the police because this is how they'd leave themselves, there's no conflict, that they're keeping fit, because amazing things are happening. In the north of the star, fans of the same team are killing each other. How is that possible spontaneously? It's not spontaneous, it's probably the police's training hardness to justify holding those helmets. He needs to break up with this act. You know, we now have a situation where organized crime controls political parties. I'll give you just one topic to think about, you can all argue afterwards, say Krasic is wrong. Let's say you have this election in Arangelovac. The tycoons and organised crime representatives are interested in winning theirs. Who are they? They don't care about that at all. They will give one stranger, another party, third party, to be sure that any party if it wins their crime will not be touched. Very simple and simple. Miskovic, Beko, they will finance everything except the SRS. Why? They control both the government and the opposition. The media are in the hands of organized crime. As they estimate, someone will be the most beautiful, smartest, richest, European type. Three showers, you know, he's for Europe. This one is showered on Saturdays, when he's arrested, he's not a European type. Those are your criteria. Both people and politicians are just infatuated, thinking it's some state business, and it's a job for others. If Ivica Dacic had just been so prepared yesterday, he could have gone into the union and arrested everyone. There were union, government and tycoon representatives. They spoke of their interests. This is where the parliamentary debate ends through the media two months before the law comes to the National Assembly. Public opinion is already being created and then comes here and when it comes here in the afternoons the National Assembly is decimated, only 10% of the total number of MPs are there. Which one? You're the only one I've ever had. Same target, same distance. We're criticizing, we're making arguments, we're submitting evidence, we're asking to get rid of it, and so on, you're smiling. Now Natasha's gonna show you the book, and you smiled about that book and you played the match. She played it because the benefit of those people who co-ordinate inside organized crime doesn't know about borders. Anyone can get in their way, and anyone can be suitable for them. Until a few days ago, I didn't even know there was a last name for Saric. And today I doubt that this man exists, believe me. Maybe there isn't that man. That the man who lives doesn't know how to organize a criminal group from, they say, 200 to 400 people and that a billion and 300 and a few million euros washes, to get into legal flows, so people won't believe you kids who go with their parents to the bus stop. Who's gonna believe that? Where was the state there? Where were the representatives of the government? Is it possible that every organized criminal group in every state institution has its own, not to go any further, even if spies? To make an organized group faster than the state in two steps, and here we hear the ministers swear that organized crime in conflict with the state will lose the fight. No one beat the state. So they will not defeat the state; they already have theirs in power. Now it turns out what I'm saying is I'm fighting the windmill. You'll have another sweet smile. There's no problem, smile for free, just laugh, but that's our reality. It's not like Cvetkovic puts his hand on his forehead and he doesn't have it, it's okay, turkey dots don't work. These are our problems. Please, we have 90 in this session and some laws. Oh, man, that's offensive. Now 14 laws are joined together in one debate. Who's gonna take this seriously? Look, with this kind of work, you devalue all these international conventions. If Elvira hadn't told you so nicely about these two conventions of the Council of Europe, it would have been undetected if that had been on the agenda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39004	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives, want any more words, I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search of the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted by the MPs' groups LDP, G 17 plus and the SRS. I give my word to the People's MP Verjec Radeta, since Mr. Zoran Ostojić is not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here for the public's sake I'll quote Article 98. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, it is a huge national pity that MPs of the ruling coalition do not care about the dignity of the National Assembly. This shows that they do not want to participate in the work, by not sitting in the hall while discussing such important points of the agenda, by allowing the government to play ball with the Assembly, I am now of course not wasting my time quoting all 14 drafts of the law, but let's say they accept that in a united debate on the draft law on the confirmation of an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on an easier procedure for issuing visas, and the proposal for a law confirming a contract between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters, let's say, the proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, etc. So is there any touch point between just the ones that I set as an example? If you can back it up with some fact and convince me that we're wrong, we'll admit it. But it's impossible. You can't convince us of that. Why does the ruling majority not care about Parliament's dignity? Because Mrs Comic before you here read the names of 20 people, representatives of different ministries, which she said you invited to attend parliament's work today on the topic of these 14 agenda points. Is it possible that the government doesn't care because the President of Parliament invited them to participate in the work and that there are no government representatives here? There is Mr. Sutanovac, and we have been informed today that he will also be authorized for these points of the agenda. We don't mind, but it's transparent and it's obvious. Mr. Sutanovac was here today according to the points of the agenda for which he is and qualified and invited to participate in the work on these points of the agenda and then, about, while he is here, he lost the day so let it be until the end, and the Assembly will work without a break, and then the break will be, Mrs. Čomić informs us, about 16:45 hours, according to her assessment. Then what? The break will be by 17:45, so we'll continue to work until 18? So this is very irresponsible and irresponsible, Madam President of the National Assembly. On behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and on behalf of the dignity of this house, please do something. Don't say we're to blame for the press, we're to blame for the media. We're making ourselves this bad atmosphere. That's not good, believe me. It's not good for the state's interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39006	Mrs. Radeta, I'm going to ask you first of all to stick to the agenda, and I'm going to ask you to bear in mind the fact that I represent as many citizens here as you do. Therefore, do not speak on behalf of some other citizens. You speak on behalf of those citizens who sent us here, or you, which may be to give you a good orientation to think about and those who will do it for you in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39007	Thank you very much, but I really don't know what other citizens you're talking about? I'm talking about the citizens of Serbia. I want to talk about the agenda, but I'm trying to explain to these Serbian citizens who, both you and I, and they chose us all, how to talk about 14 points of the agenda as one point. I'll just say very briefly about this law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. Yes, colleague Elvira Kovac spoke nicely about confirming the convention, and I will only, again, for the sake of the public, tell you that, let's say, the health council of the Serbian Progressive Party for the Jablani District issued a statement on 9 April 2010. Among other things, this is something that is really worrying, the statement said, refers to the status of the Roma, and then the conclusion of the Serbian Progressive Party – that the practice of ending childhood and marriage in 13, 14 and 15 years has been demonstrated by the indicator of low morals and depravity and the social environment, etc. This is an incredible insult to the entire Roma population. This statement is not something that we pulled out of the drawer, but rather a press release and in the context of this convention, which is on the agenda, it would be good to make sure that party representatives must first and foremost take care of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, take care of the rights of all citizens and that no one, nor the Progressive Party, has the right to insult the entire and overall Roma population in Serbia. I also want to talk about these draft laws on confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, again in the context of some previously concluded contracts. When I tried to explain why I singled out my opinion on the Justice and Administration Committee, I mentioned how much all these contracts and all these agreements are actually something that the state of Serbia and Serbian citizens have no use for. We have these contracts with both Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I ask you, gentlemen of the government and the ruling majority, how did you not manage to do this on the basis of the agreement you signed and which here has been ratified to do something to initiate a criminal case for the war crimes of the participants of the crime so-called crime. The Tuzlan column? Why didn't you get Ejup Ganic to go against him? Why have you allowed such criminal charges based on which no one can make a red warrant that you allegedly call, but no one cares that you, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, call those warrants, no one cares, no one will behave in accordance with those demands because you have allowed your behavior to show everyone that you don't care, that you do it in the interest, again I have to say it no matter what anyone will be offended, everyone more than in the interest of Serbian citizens? The other day, the secretary of state, who was also invited to attend here today, Mr. Homen, and he wasn't, tried to explain on some television that once again, in the time of the 1990s, such arrest warrants were written, "unconquered", he said, in some criminal acts, or the Code of Criminal Procedure, but cited an example, say, Javier Solana. He says -- you know, if we hadn't pulled that BOLO, we would have had to arrest Javier Solana when he first came to Belgrade. Of course, then the government wrote that warrant with the intention of arresting Javier Solana, because he is a criminal in relation to the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. That's why you've written an APB against Stanko Subotic Canet, but by stating a crime that doesn't exist in Switzerland, where Cane Sobotić is hiding. Whoever wrote that BOLO and who started this criminal procedure, I don't believe that he was so unprofessional that he didn't know he was doing anything that would mean anything -- here you go, Cane Sutotic, with his friend Milo Djukanovic down there, take a little bath, rest in various villas, his or Milov, anyway, there are as many of them as you want, and then go to Switzerland, again via Milo Djukanovic, via Milo Djukanovic's regime, see how you'll send money to some political parties in Serbia that finance these money pre-election campaigns. Then Mr. Homen shows up again and says -- it's true that some political parties, or some politicians, are funding the money of that dangerous Saric clan, which Homen says is more dangerous than the Zemun clan, are being announced today by the media, but they won't say either those parties or who are politicians. We have been asking you for months which, I suppose, if you are in power to know that information, to bring it out as a government and to explain it to the citizens of Serbia, here to the citizens of Arangelovac, let's say, where SNS has so much money that it can finance a local campaign today in Arangelovac, yesterday somewhere else, tomorrow, somewhere else, where money comes from, if it is known that no single dinar is received from the state of Serbia. This is what I'm saying in the context of these agreements, these conventions and these contracts that will be ratified here today and in a few days' time, which will only remain a dead letter on paper, because you won't do anything, you won't use those agreements and those contracts that you're ratifying here, which you previously sign, in lighting up some crimes and in lighting up these organized criminal groups, in lighting up war crimes. Also, I want to remind you what kind of cooperation you have when it comes to war crimes with Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have a formal agreement on mutual co-operation, and when Mr Vukcevic, Bruno Vekaric, or someone from the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, boasts that we have excellent co-operation with war crimes prosecutors from Croatia or Bosnia and Herzegovina. How exactly does this co-operation take place? Whoever they're pointing their finger at, Serbia is choosing, conducts a criminal case for alleged war crimes or against alleged perpetrators, and those there, say, at the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Tuzla, I was personally able to see to it that a lady who is the prosecutor in that Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Tuzla had some people arrested here, because they allegedly committed some crimes on the territory of Zvornik. And of course, that warrant is done neatly. In 24 hours, some people have been arrested, the question is whether they are responsible, whether they are not for these crimes, and on the other hand, the same war crimes prosecutor's office gets concrete information about war crimes committed in the Hrid settlement in Zvornik. Several witnesses, statements by these witnesses, who say - these war crimes were committed by Arkan's tigers, and then one of Arkan's tigers, Pelevic, who is also a MP, did not just say, "That's not true," because I would know that because that day I was in Zvornik and Hrid. Nothing to anyone. So we need to co-operate with countries in the world. We don't mind that, but you have to take care of who and how. In this co-operation, we must also take care, first of all, of the interests of the Serbian state, of the interests of Serbian citizens, and not only of running, we sign everything we are offered, and we apply only as much as it suits someone else. These are really examples I've been talking about, and I'm sure the rest of my colleagues will, for example, show you that we're right and that it's not nice that you laugh when we talk like this. Just now, the minister saw a list of the book "Stanko Subotic, Cana Zabac, king of the tobacco mafia" written and published by Vojislav Seselj, at the time, said Krasic, I do not want to repeat, when we talked about it, that when we talked about it, many of you here were grasping the belly of laughter, as we talked about Russia becoming a force, that Russia would be the only real orientation for international co-operation between Serbia and Russia. It's been five, six, ten years, you've been laughing no more, but you're repeating what Serbian radicals are saying, but at the moment we say so, you're trying to show it to the citizens of Serbia as something that happened to us, which is not justified and which isn't backed by facts. That's why what we're saying today, and the Serbian citizens know very well, when they hear something from the mouth of Serbian radicals, they know it's true, it's only a matter of days when you, who are in power, will accept that truth and reveal it to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39008	Since Mr. Ostojić entered the moment I gave my word to Mrs. Radeti, I hope you don't mind if I give my word to Mr. Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39009	Thank you, President. I really didn't expect any of the powers or bosses of the parliamentary groups to appear on such an important agenda. Anyway, I thank you, too, for your esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have 15 laws before us confirming protocols, agreements from various areas. Most of them will make life easier for citizens, such as An agreement with the Swiss Federation on an eased procedure for issuing visas. Some of these conventions, such as the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, are what we in the LDP call European values. If we want to be part of the EU, we need to accept European values. No one's against it. I will keep my attention for a few minutes on the laws confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on Extradition and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. These three laws, which with Montenegro, which renewed statehood in 2006, basically solve one of the major problems created after Yugoslavia's collapse, which is that criminals have taken on various citizenships, and we know that visas have been easier than ordinary citizens, in essence, have not only made it easier for themselves to commit crimes, but have effectively avoided the hands of justice. I know that many here find it difficult to conclude agreements and agreements with Montenegro as an independent state, because many were against the restoration of Montenegro's statehood. Objectively, Montenegro and I have lived in a common country for 80 years or almost 80 years. We think this is extremely important, not only because of the latest events that led to the disclosure of a large criminal group known as "Brothers Saric", although, as far as I know against one, it is not the case, but it is the prosecution of those brothers, but only against the one called Darko. We support this action and we think that the adoption of these conventions will facilitate the fight against organised crime in these areas. On this occasion, I can only say that I hope that in the future, and when our authorities are concerned, police affairs and legal affairs will be left to the police, competent security services and courts. It should not involve politics, because when politics is involved, only criminals or those suspected, accused of crime, benefit from it. It's undeniable that these days, when it comes to organized crime, we've been showered with information that this criminal group, which would not have obviously been discovered if it hadn't been for the involvement of the U.S. Narcotics Agency. That's where we did the job, obviously, okay. They were right under our noses. The initiative didn't come from this country. We've been showered with information that this criminal group or some members were planning or planning to plan assassinations on top of state officials. In a country where Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was killed seven years ago in a conspiracy that objectively meant an attempt to strike the state and derail Serbia's European integration path, it is terrifying. After Sablje, who unfortunately broke up that criminal group that killed Zoran Djindjic, did not move on. We all know why. The government and the Prime Minister have changed. Why am I saying politics shouldn't interfere with what is police and judicial work? It seems to me that over the past few months politics has interfered with something that is evident - the breaking of one of the most powerful, if not the most powerful drug cartels in Europe. She got involved, I try to transfer responsibility to that Montenegro, and that's why we support these conventions with, until yesterday, an eye in our heads. If politics interferes, there will be no fight against organised crime and drug cartels, or there will be, but only half as unfortunately as it was in Sabrela. We're asking a question here that the authorities have to answer at some point. We support and believe the government sincerely wants to deal with the drug cartel and this criminal organization. But we think it's this organization, and that two or three tons of cocaine, and that money, it's just the result of one process. The process essentially led to the fact that after the destruction of the Zemun clan, and let's remind ourselves, unlike this group, which is now at the heart of the public and the judicial and police authorities, that group that committed the murder of Zoran Djindjic was essentially a group belonging to civil servants and officials. Direct assassination, convicted assassin of Zoran Djindjic was a civil servant. The one who organized it was a civil servant yesterday. At that point, he was a pensioner. This isn't about civil servants. On the other hand, the whole or most of the public, the media that controlled these state structures or criminalised structures, inherited from the Milosevic era, prepared an assassination on Zoran Djindjic by criminalising him and declaring him a mobster, criminal and co-worker. We don't have that case here right now. We have absolute support in public and media for final account. I repeat, this is only a consequence. Scarecrows are the consequence. What's the cause? The cause, who made it possible for the group to, after "Sablje", after the government's change by assassination, strengthen the way it buys through Serbia, to launder money, preferably drug-business, to have the protection of the state, to get citizenship so that they could participate in all of this. That's the essential question. There are no, gentlemen, two answers, or security services didn't know they were doing their job, so in front of their noses, everything we read about today was happening, or those structures were under the influence of politics, and it allowed it. There's no third. That's why we think this thing needs to be cleared up. If as a society and for what Rade Bulatovic would say, general social circumstances, after "Sablje" we could not reach the political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder. When I say the political background, then I'm talking about the relationship between those who organised and committed murder with those who inspired them and those who had benefited from the murder of Zoran Djindjic. If we couldn't do it then, now, under other circumstances, I think we have to. It's the only way we're going to go with the cause of organized crime, which is the crime, the secret service, the dirty money and the politics, we're going to figure it out. If we don't do that, it ends up in drug cartel judgments, taking away property, etc., and this doesn't clear up by the end, then in a year we're going to have something like that again. That's why we think it's important that we do this thing with Montenegro together, but I repeat, we won't be able to do it effectively if politics gets involved in this. I know it's hard not to mix politics, if the politics behind it are somehow standing. I'm not insinuating which direction the investigation should go, I'm just saying that the current LDP government has the support to clear up until the end of the political relationship and the circumstances that made it possible for the Sable to grow in several years, in this country a criminal organisation that turns that kind of money has such an impact on the state, which participates in privatisations. In 10 years, a society cannot stumble twice over the same stone. In 2003, we didn't end up having the strength to clear up and get to the inspirer and the political background of the murder. That's not what the judiciary, to be honest, didn't want to do. You know that even today, judicial officials for what the Red Berets did at the Sava Center use the word "protest" and never "insurgency" because the rebellion is a crime. Let's not make the same mistake twice. We've paid one dearly, as a consequence, the growth of this group that now again, if you trust the media and the authorities, and there's no reason not to believe, threatens the highest state bodies. To the end, clearing up will only lead to a situation where crime will exist as in any country in which it exists, bigger or smaller, but never again to the extent that it can plan coups and murders of top officials, etc. My distinguished predecessor mentioned Russia. I guess she forgot that Russia always goes "mother" Russia. I'm sorry that this Russia is holding and keeping and not handing over some of the people our judiciary is looking for. So much for, how can I say, the law and justice and the interests that Russia has in Serbia. If it were fair to say that it was a legal state in which we wanted to be, when we were a member of the EU, that would not have happened. Therefore, when someone mentions that some are hiding in Montenegro or here or there, and loves Russia and thinks Russia is strong and protects Serbian interest, then let them wonder why this Russia is looking for those who are wanted by our judiciary for serious crimes, not only to protect, but to give them citizenship. I don't want to talk this time about why oil was 50 dinars, and the best villagers know it, and this year it's 100 dinars. It's probably because of that love of Mother Russia, but it's not a topic, I wouldn't want to get a warning. Let me rephrase and conclude, we support this convention in particular, but we appeal to the authorities to go to the end this time and answer the question – how is it possible that, after "Sablje", such a criminal organization could have been created in a few years that could have put the lives of the highest officials at risk? If I were underprivileged, I'd say - if they were from Pleuvi, let's see who they supported in Pljevi, whose authority until the referendum, etc. It'd all open up real quick. But it's not the job of an opposition party like LDP. Our job is to influence. When we're in that place, then we'll insist. Now we're just saying, clear it up to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39010	Mrs. Radeta would be entitled to a replica, but she's not here. He didn't mention the SRS, he mentioned a colleague who spoke earlier, etc. There's no basis for others. If Mrs. Radeta were here, she'd have a word. National MP Jelena Travar-Miljević has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Travar.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39011	Thank you, President of the Assembly. The honourable representatives of the proposings, colleagues and colleagues, as well as yesterday, and today I will talk about the confirmation of a convention that I also believe must not and cannot be political inexperience, because I am talking about the confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. Why did I say this previous sentence? Because we have many times, and I in this House, and probably the public, of all my colleagues knows that children are our future, but the day we get to confirm the convention doesn't always show up like that. At the very beginning, I would remind us of the general definition of child abuse – abuse or child abuse includes all forms of physical and or emotional abuse, sexual abuse, neglect or reckless procedure, as well as commercial or other exploitation, leading to a real or potential violation of child's health, survival, development or dignity within a relationship involving responsibility, trust and power. This is the definition given by the World Health Organization, and I will remind you that the world day of prevention of child abuse, which is marked on November 19th, is actually established in order to raise awareness and increase public sensitivity to child abuse, abuse and neglect. Sexual abuse of a child is manifested as activity between a child and an adult or, unfortunately, increasingly in our society and another child, who has a position of responsibility, trust or power because of his age or development, where activity aims to provide pleasure or to meet the needs of another person. This may include, but it's not limited to merely citing or forcing a child to engage in any illegal sexual activity, exploitative use of a child for prostitution or other illegal sexual acts. According to Unicefu, about two million children are used each year in the so-called to the sex industry. Today in Serbia, we talk much more about this, and I can't really appreciate whether talking about this subject even means that the presence of sexual abuse of children is increased or the possibility of speaking openly and recognising certain things, gives us the opportunity to see certain legal standards and establish certain mechanisms to prevent this from happening. What I find extremely satisfying is that, in terms of this convention, we unequivocally define the concept of a child and that means every person under 18. I believe that confirming this Convention will significantly and institutionally improve the protection of children and children's rights, and certainly the possibility that children will receive information during primary and secondary education on the dangers of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, as well as the means to protect themselves, in accordance with their own powers that are being developed over time. Of course, I am aware that the very confirmation of this convention will not significantly improve things, but we are certainly taking another step towards improving things. My concrete and modest contribution today would be to the suggestion of changing the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, in particular to the members of 183 and 184 and increasing the criminal provisions, where in article 183 says – who takes a minor to make a promise with her, an equal act or a second half, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to five years. My modest contribution is to suggest that we increase that provision within certain deadlines, through certain congregation procedures. In addition to that, I would like to point out, statistics, which are unfortunately modest, say that of the four children who are sexually abused are three girls and one boy, that the perpetrators are unknown persons in 1.75% of cases, which indicates, in any case, the need for education and parents and children and all those people who work with children to recognize such types of abuse. Of course, this abuse is at 62.33% per year. I certainly can't talk about this without mentioning the positive measures taken by the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, which last year also marked as a year of safer Internet and by "click safely" efforts to get to know both parents and children with the possibility of using information technology. In a real desire to warn some things and in a real desire to do certain things preventively in this country, I call on all my colleagues to support the confirmation of this convention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39012	Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39013	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not only is Mr Sutanovac not in the O.R. right now, but he remains one of his associates and I want to continue this very serious story started by a colleague of Radeta, and before that, Mr Krasic, as our authorised representative. Please, you are a serious woman and a politician who is at the head of one of the most important institutions in the country, to take seriously that what we are about to talk about here in this plenary debate is the only window in the world, the only possibility that Serbian citizens can hear many of the things that we are starting at meetings of the Assembly committees, specifically at a session of the Defence and Security Committee, which the media are fairly correct, but there is no direct transfer of the Committee's sessions. One was when the majority in the Committee decided to take Mr Todorovic's shift from the post of Committee President, and when we began, or continued, from who knows what stages, the story of organised crime, the tycoons, the mafia and the dangers and threats of state officials. She mentioned Mrs Radeta, and before that Mr Krasic also said that this is not for the SRS story only because of marketing, because now the Toboj state is going to fight organised crime, because the war on the mafia was declared by the president of the state, Boris Tadic, but it is indeed the basis of our political action in the uncompromising fight against organised crime from October 5th to today. If you remember, and remembers that Mr Sutanovac, because we talked about it in a few sentences and informally, in 2002, Professor Vojislav Seselj devoted the entire political campaign, first for the elections as a candidate for the president of Serbia and then in parliament, both here and in the SRJ Assembly, dedicated the fight against organised crime. This book, mentioned by the camera at one point, which he wrote, "Stanko Subotić Cane Žabac, the king of the tobacco mafia", is only one of the materials he collected and on the team on which Mr Krasic was on, and Mrs Radeta and other legal experts from our party, because we thought and he thought then, as he now believes, and you heard that a month ago at a status conference he ordered from The Hague tribunal, from which we expect him to return to the country soon, that he was not yet able to go after Serbia to arrest, but when he was able, it will be very dangerous for many individuals. Be assured that not only are we going on that path that we have gone on then, but we want to get everything out of the way and that the citizens of Serbia see if the country really has the intention of going into a crackdown with organised criminal groups, because none, not to advertise it, but, behold, it is the title in one of the read and famous Sundays in Serbia published today and this title "The Mafia is threatening the state" and here it is seen as the President of the Republic entering the old one, and now probably, after the decision of the state authorities, will use a safer car. Last year, at this time, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and one of these contracts, which I will look back at during the discussion, was signed on 29 May, days before the parliamentary elections in Montenegro, on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministry, by Mrs Snezana Malovic, who we also expected to come here today. Even then, I thought about when this, as well as this other agreement regarding the execution of judgments, would come on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and present gentlemen, that this would not happen until the regular autumn session that this was not the case of Saric, but of all the anxiety and political, the state summit over the fact that organised crime threatens, we have heard from the President of the Republic, well, we have heard from Mr. Homen who is today, and unfortunately not at the session, and Mrs. Malovic, Mr. Radisavljevic, the special prosecutor and all the others who, they said themselves, are declarative, and we will see what they will do until the end, decided to go into action against organised crime. But what happened in the meantime until this happened on the agenda? Serbia, and Mr Krasic had just asked himself - so who is this man, according to Mrs. Maja Kovacevic, Darko Saric was later registered as a waiter at the cafe, or at the restaurant "Kazino" in Kragujevac, later changed addresses. However, I will speak more of this second in Serbia than the 1990s known criminal Stanko Sutotic Canet, whom Mr Seselj described in this book, or gathered enough data to continue what was hitched to SRS before the entry into that common government of state unity. I see that since this morning you have been honored here by Mrs. Kolundzija and many others that period and when they spoke of us from that time on, they of course spoke to you, and that was the time when someone decided to abolish Interpol's warrant in 98th year for Stanko Subotic, i.e. she was later re-scheduled, but was abolished when DOS came to power. Now we're facing a situation here that's worrying. Stanko Subotić Cane took part in a television show a month ago, on television with national frequencies, quite boastful, I would say and ossion, almost threatening the country whose citizenship he has, and we are confident, and this should be investigated by the state authorities that he also has the citizenship of Switzerland, so he will be able to speak further by speaking to the tycoons Miskovic and Beku on behalf of the privatisation of "Evening News" and Luke "Belgrade" by addressing one of the actors of Montenegro's political scene. Until that happened we tried months before through the institutions of the system, through the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to raise the issue. Afterwards, the drop in a glass was Saric's group, i.e. the fight with the cocaine mafia, because if the state had done its job in time and didn't just let Subotić get out of here, first in Croatia, then Moscow, then Montenegro, then Switzerland, and there's the possibility that such ossion and boast would occur, and that she did everything our president and our party asked for after October 5th, we would find ourselves in a much better situation than the state and society, because if you think only the heads of state and not ordinary citizens are disturbed, then you're wrong. This is a situation in which politics is and how it has been brought into line with organized crime. Mr. Homen, and if he were present here right now, according to the Rules of Procedure, he couldn't answer this statement delivered by this weekly, that there would only be words about it, and that the competent authorities were working on an examination of the links between Saric and Subotic's groups with known politicians in the country, but this is an opportunity to present some of our findings. We used one man's testimony. Many can dispute and give him an adjective "controversant", one or more, but allow it to be a man who was an official representative of Montenegro when we were in the SRJ community, it was Ratko Knezevic, who was a representative of Montenegro in Washington, and later on, who decided that for his own safety reasons, because he was close to Ivo Pukanic, whose murder was in some way suggested by Dr Vojislav Seselj in this book, because Pukanic as the owner of Zagreb's "National" went into a tough fight with Stanko Sutotic and his tobacco cartel. Now it is clear that the whole connection between the then government and some DOS politicians and DS politicians to protect Sutotic, and later when Subotic lost that support and when changes occurred both at the head of the DS and when another government came together, he sought refuge abroad and defined himself as other political actors and players. Who was it identified for? For Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic. Ratko Knezevic, as former close associate of Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic and as his best man, accused Djukanovic and Serbian businessman Stanko Subotic Canet of being the organisers of the tobacco mafia and published many interviews and asked a logical question that I am now asking here – whose Subotic is all citizen? Since the contract applies to two contractual sides, Serbia-Montenegro, and since we all know, state security authorities also know that Stanko Subotic has Serbian citizenship, he is subject to this contract. After the vote on ratification of this treaty, the state of Serbia should immediately ask the Government of Montenegro to hand over Stanko Subotic as a citizen of Serbia, so it says here, there are all elements, there are charges, in fact, the case before the Special Court, 15 days ago there was a hearing, there are crimes for which extradition is allowed. Such a crime is allowed for extradition, it is not allowed from Switzerland, so it is a more permanent haven there because, as Mrs. Radet said, the international Interpol warrant is misspelled, so it is charged with abuse of the official position, it is some crime from that sockomunistic time, which some of you here remember or commit fraud, but certainly not for the organized crime group that kills, which ordered certain murders. Because, as we quoted then, and ultimately, it is the BIA, because there is a conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government in which we were together in 1999, it seems to me in January, an official conclusion when the minister of police was from the SPS, that it was unequivocally proven that Stanko Subotic Cane, in addition to these others, ordered the killing of the deputy police minister Radovan Stojčić-Baj and no one. After 2000, Dr Vojislav Seselj left, the SRS started to figure it out, and in the meantime you can see what was going on. These tycoons are taking on a growing dimension. They increase their capital, Miskovic, Beko, Djindjic and others buy blood and criminal money from enterprises in Serbia. No one's doing anything. Someone is a criminal who is this cocaine mob, with whom the state has gone into account and praised by both Americans and by whom, it has issued citizenship. At this point, we don't know whose citizen Darko Saric is. Milo Djukanovic was justifying citizenship to him with simple things. He says he filed before a Serbian indictment was filed against him and an Interpol arrest warrant, quote Milo Djukanovic, has no unconditional conviction, imagine, Milo Djukanovic says, for more than a year, so he claims, so why not give it to him? After all, Montenegro as a country that is a haven for the escape of all criminals from the entire planet, but Sutotic, above all, has also issued citizenship to Taksina Shinavatri, the ex-Prime Minister of Thailand, who is legally sentenced to prison in his country. We're now coming up with a serious situation. Will this launched action by Boris Tadic, and Snezana Malovic, and Home and all others and Radisavljevic, whom we also urged to come to the meeting of the Security Committee, is now, as we hear personally threatened, will they get strength and whose help they need if they can't do it themselves? So the Democratic Party's summit, because until the Democratic Party is determined to link organised crime with politics, we will also have greater political tensions in the country, such as in Arangelovac these days, so those financed by Stanko Subotić Cane and Saric's group and tycoons in Serbia, which is this SNS, will go so freely and uninterruptedly around the city, as they do these days and nights in Arandjelovac and beat people. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and you and I are Kragujevcanka, you know that this group of these people are ossions and who are being paid by the mafia, and that the state should examine to the end and above all the Anti-Corruption Agency, that the group, except that their leader in our town is the older son of Tomislav Nikolic, Radomir Nikolic, as members of the Novak Djokovic family, is responsible for the fact that Kragujevac lost an investment worth 14m euros and that he is "Femili sport", owned by Srdjan Djokovic, the father of Novak Djokovic, gave up his investment in Kragujevac. Here, you see, so it was an overture. In Kragujevac, they organised a hajka on the second racket of the world, Novak Djokovic. And not only that, but with an anti-constitutional discriminatory and anti-Serb finding - that he is, imagine, Shiptar with KIM, so what he has to do with Kragujevac. That's terrible. To lift a man's hair on his head. The same are now taking part in a city in Shumadia, where you and I are going on a campaign, as well as many other colleagues, who are not from our neighborhood, are taking action on activists and yours, and the SRS and DS, so imagine being given power and financed by the mafia? Here's this group, Canet's group, who ordered all these murders -- and Baje Sekulić, and Bokana and others? I only mentioned this, because there was still a day-to-day official conclusion in the archives of the government. They would then be able, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, such ossions and boasts, disfigured to say, in their hatred and in all that and in order to justify the funds they were given, to carry out the coup in the SRS first, and then - to try to bring criminals to power through the system and to justify it. You know, Milo Djukanovic won't, because first of all Stanko Subotic Cane is his player, Milo Djukanovic won't just shoot empty. When he and Nikolic and Vucic met in Hotel "Ric" in Paris in October 2007, and later said it was quite a random encounter, there he met, he went with someone to arrange a job to build a project in Novi Sad, which was also a mob project and a thief project, first of all, because they cheated on certain partners from Russia, and so he sat down and asked him – where you are Tomo, I haven't seen you in a long time. This guy comes up and shakes hands with him. You believe that? You don't believe it, neither does the Serbian public. Ratko Knezevic argues, and this he claimed to the official authorities, therefore, made a statement to the Serbian special prosecutor's office, gave a statement to the court in Zagreb, where the process for killing Ivo Pukanic is being conducted, that these people, who are in the parliament here, are the opposite of the will of the citizens and this other one who is breaking through Arangelovac, where he sends 60 of his mobsters, with cars, audiences and jeeps -- that at night the party activists are going to fight in the election campaign, these same people are now unhindered by some better lives and, as they say, change. Because when you enter the Arangelian from the pecan road, you from Kragujevac see that all these paintings are glued together. So today, a daily newspaper reported that they printed 50,000 posters. Oh, come on! A hundred thousand! Because they have as much money as they want. It's not just the five million that Cane gave for the project at Rica, but later who knows which tranches came, and who's going to examine it, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic? We can't wait for Stanko Subotić to get back on some show and say, if he sees that the project has failed, and eventually he'll have to, if the state authorities do their job and arrest him -- I gave them five million then, and then they asked him for more. Who else is gonna talk about it? Why was he not called before the authorities, that here in Serbia, to present Ratko Knezevic, through whom we have and based on whose statements we have learned all this. So we think that this contract in the right sense doesn't mean anything. You know why? Because they are fulfilled, therefore, by contract and by our side, by the states she has asked, if she does, and before that she would have to explain again, and there is no Mrs Malovic, nor Mr Homen, whether the amendment of the indictment for Subotic was made, therefore, this one, as it is, valid under this contract - that he was delivered to Serbia on the moment he set foot on St. Stefan. Mr. Sutanovac, if you wish, you know it very well, and as a responsible man and I suppose a serious politician who is in power, is that right, Minister of Defense, a state if he will, i.e. If you want from the DS, in 24 hours he can deal with those connected to the mob. So here we are, colleagues, and we end up with that information that even the media publishes -- that this empire and this family image of power and wealth, not only by Nikolic and Vukic, but also by all those close to them, will spread until the moment you start to do your job seriously. The very statements, a letter from Boris Tadic, the inability to make the right conclusions, which is why Mr Todorovic and appointed to the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, is holding us back to the end. Because, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, when you were in Arangelovac, as I could hear you with your own eyes, so in the end Mr. Martinović, Todorović and Krasic went, so those two promise to every farmer whose grandson stays in the country - that they will buy him two cows, I don't know how many sheep, etc. They won't do it with their money. This one certainly won't bring a cow to the Arangelovac on his way from Bicettin. Somebody's got to pay for it, and they're gonna pay for the mob, because he doesn't have any other money. He didn't earn them from the Parliament. So, Mr. Sutanovac, tell Boris Tadic here from this place and your DS to start doing this job till the end. If you do so and therefore it is in the interest and political opportunities in the country and the stability of this country and, above all, what is our obligation, do this job - you will have the support of the SRS. Because if that weren't the case, we wouldn't be like the people who go down the normal street, who nobody protects, raise questions like this, and, as they say, put the mob's finger in the eye. You, if you're willing to do that, then it'll be a rescue for this country. If that doesn't work, there's no saving us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39014	National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39015	Ladies and gentlemen, sitting in these benches for a very long time, sometimes I feel like I've been repeating class and I don't want to hear the same stories and talk about the same things anymore. For me, I have to say, the above-mentioned topics -- whether we will be friends or enemies with other countries, whether our children will play Serbian volunteers and whether Serbia will ever bring itself back into a situation to wonder how they should treat the world and themselves. That's why I want to talk about that last convention that's on the agenda today, which is the Convention on the Prohibition of Sexual Abuse of Children. Why? Because for me in Serbia today is a much bigger question - what happens to people and what happens to children? What's going on with their personal lives? And what happens to the values that we, as a society, cultivate and pass on to our children. For me, it's a much more important question, let's just say, will graduates in Leskovac play the menu with Europe, not because it's a tradition of Europe, but because they used to do it and their great-grandmothers, fostering a civil tradition, or will otherwise be torn apart and half-drunked by books and playing with the trumpetists of the city streets? For me, for example, the far more important question is whether children will celebrate their little prom in cafes, where they will drink beer together with their teachers, of course, dressed in the tradition of modern folk stars? Will, for example, the only place to go out in my city for children 13 years old and 50 years old be one night club? Will the idols of our girls be criminalized folk singers, happily married war criminals or criminals? Why am I saying this? Because I think it's our topic about the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse, because this convention, which we're about to ratify today, is not just about our obligation to protect children from making a promise to them, but about having to develop the consciousness of our entire society about what is unacceptable and what is acceptable in the sexual conduct of children and young people. Our country has made some moves on this plan and when it comes to children, and when it comes to this topic. First of all, the UN Convention on Children's Rights has started to apply to a greater extent, and it has been incorporated into some of our laws. My colleagues before me are already talking about how many of her provisions became part of the Family Law, which we passed in 2005. Also, the National Plan for Action for Children has been established and local plans for action for children are being implemented in some municipalities. I would also like to mention a particularly significant general protocol, but also special protocols on the protection of children from abuse and neglect, within which there are provisions concerning sexual abuse. Unfortunately, no specific protocols are applied in all systems equally well and equally successfully. As for sexual abuse and child abuse, what is the situation in our legislation, and what have we really done? Some things are good, some things aren't good enough, and some things are bad, for God's sake. I'm not an expert in legislation, but as a psychologist, a mother and a citizen, I don't think there's a very big difference between illicit sexual acts on a child, promises and rapes. The lawyers might explain it to us, but I believe that all of this, when it comes to children, should be the most severe punishment and I absolutely stand for it. What does it mean to do an illicit sex shop over a child of five, six or seven years? Isn't that the rape of that child? Is rape really just a sexual act and, as the law defines, a promise? So, I stand for absolutely maximum penalties when all these acts of sexual abuse of children are at stake. Who's the perp of a child's shop like this? Most often people who are close to them and most often people of their trust and, unfortunately, persons of authority, family members, members of a wider family, family friends, teachers, educators, in homes for carefree children, those whose children are entrusted to the care or church dignitaries. We've had situations like this. Are we really going to remain a society that will allow itself the shame that these processes become obsolete and that the perpetrators remain not only unpunished, but that in our society there is a dilemma whether it really happened or didn't happen? Is it possible that an institution of the highest confidence of citizens, such as the church, allows itself such a thing and that our society and our legal system do not react to such a thing? For me, it's totally unacceptable, as it's unacceptable that such things happen in children's homes. I received information that such a case existed in Vranj, but also these days in the Title. So we didn't do something right, and we have to change it drastically quickly and efficiently. What's good about legislation? Any contact in terms of promise is forbidden, even if it is initiated by a child under the age of 14. There are high sentences threatened. The promise of abuse of office is forbidden, these are the situations I spoke of a short time ago, in Article 181 of Article 2(2). Criminal code. Here, with the latest amendments to the law, punishment has been increased, criminal policy has been tightened and minimum punishment is one to 10 years. Also, the latest amendments to the law are forbidden to be tried below minimum. Believe it or not, judges are often such acts, beware of the work of the promise of abuse of official office, the practice existed to judge under the existing legal minimum, taking into account the expedient circumstances. I ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, but I also ask the Serbian judiciary, what are the extenuating circumstances of someone who makes a promise of a minor child or a child under the age of 14? What's the extenuating circumstance? That he was a respected citizen, that he wasn't convicted, that he was a father of the family? Please, I think that's funny. So there are no extenuating circumstances for such acts and it's impossible to judge not below minimum, but at minimum. It's totally morally unacceptable. When rape is committed to a minor from 14 to 18 years of age, the sentence is between five and 15 years old, and the threatened sentence if executed by a child is at least 10 years old. So we increased the minimum penalty rate to prevent him from being tried under these penalties, which was practice. I really hope that the reforms of the judiciary will deliver results and that this really will not be a practice in Serbia anymore. What's wrong? What I was just talking about, which is that there's a difference between promise, rape and illicit sexual acts. When it comes to illicit sexual acts, the Criminal Code, Article 182, does not provide for a special situation at all, a special possibility, therefore, there is no specification when these actions are carried out over children and no specific criminal policy is provided for when they are carried out over children. What does that mean in practice? This means that it does not matter whether an illicit sex store is performed on an adult or on a child. This is unacceptable and we have to change this, there's no dilemma. Another thing that is also unacceptable, which is that this kind of action is not being prosecuted by official duty, but rather the requirement of the one over which it was committed is necessary. So what's the real situation then? Until the child or his parents have had to go through the painful stages of the procedure to prove it. That's what a so-called creation is about. Secondary victimization. So, you make the victim multiple times, she goes through a difficult trial in which, unfortunately, the largest number of parents or children give up these processes and we don't get adequate sentences for the perpetrators. It's something that's unacceptable and it's something that needs to be changed automatically. Unfortunately, it is not even applicable to what is provided for by legislation in the area of protection of minors, which is that children who are subject to such disputes cannot be questioned more than once, faced with perpetrators etc. So there is a procedure by which their statement can be recorded once and as such used in further proceedings. It is not disputed, I believe for no one, that we will ratify this convention, but I call on you to apply it by changing our legislation and aligning it with it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I address you, but also to all competent ministries, institutions and experts working with children, to take this seriously, that everyone is obliged to report any suspicion of sexual abuse of children, whoever she came from, that foreign children are not someone else's concern and that they are the responsibility of all of us. I'm also talking to my parents, and I want to tell them that they have to organize themselves much tighter and ask all the authorities to protect their children, but also anyone else's children. When politicians come to campaigns not to ask them how many light bulbs they will make in their village, they will ask them what the local work programmes are to protect their children and improve the position of their children. Finally, dear Serbian girls, do not try to look like Cece, Sek and others, dear young men in Serbia, do not identify yourself with those whose nicknames are Cana, Mutavi, Fool or Legion, because you are the most beautiful when you look exactly like yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39016	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Your MP group has 27 minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, when you decide to raise your dignity, authority and all that is positive, in this high house, you will have a big partner in the SRS, as Minister Sutanovac likes to say. We have also shown this by attending the O.R. when discussions are being held, and by taking part in topics that are on the agenda. Why did I have to distract you now? It is unacceptable, above all, that of the 14 laws that could be settled in five groups that have nothing in common, a joint and united debate is conducted. I believe Mr. Sutanovac, by the topics that were at the point before this, could speak with respect. We can disagree with his policy and his political party's policy, but he was a real representative of the topics on the agenda. And now, if nothing else, and precisely because of what you could hear from Mr Krasic, from Ms Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica You are working on this topic, there should also be a Minister of the Interior, Minister of Justice, Minister of Foreign Affairs, not only because of the topics that are on the agenda now, but also because of what they are, and of course I also want to talk about, so to show up – either there is a place in prison or we need to bear political responsibility for the public statement. Mr. Sutanovac, since you are already present, I must tell you that in some future period or perspective you may also be able to become a good Serbian radical. You don't have to, but I'll try to tell you what I'm working on. You are pushing for Serbia's entry into the EU. You don't want that in any harsh and war way. We want to live one day in big Serbia, also in no rough, wary and any other way. How can we achieve this, how can we foster a desire for those of whom we want to be in great Serbia? First of all, by keeping our country in a very responsible state and political way today, and by creating good conditions for the lives of all those who live in this and this, and now this much, and for us, Serbia. You know the good boundaries, which is why I said that in some ways you can also compete for a new and young member of the SRS, but you can stay where you are, there may be a more interesting political scene in Serbia. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, if those whom some of your coalition partners say are their friends, and we don't think they're enemies, but we believe that in a historical period that is not far from incorrect towards the Serbian people, if we knew about the first few topics we are talking about, or legal proposals, it is about visa liberalisation, who represents us in the name of the government of this law, and none of them, there would be one stain left in this debate, although you will accept and adopt this most of the 126 votes in the National Assembly of Serbia. What does it have to do with the laws with which the government wants to implement visa liberalisation, the agreements that we need to ratify with Montenegro, the bill confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse? One of his colleagues said it was a liquid of European value. We Serbian radicals claim that this is a flow of Serbian value. When I say Serbian values, I mean all citizens living in Serbia. It has always been so, and I must say that with a full sense of responsibility, they can join colleagues Miljevic, and at first, at the very least, what the justice of the Republic of Serbia can do, it is to apply the laws, that is, to impose those sanctions which are provided for and prescribed by our criminal laws, and certainly should be approached by amendments and additions to certain provisions of the Criminal Law, because we now have one dispersion of criminal norms that deal with this issue of protection, primarily of youth, from sexual abuse, but ministers do not arrive enough to prepare these legal proposals. For what? Because a little bit or so in some local self-government, emergency elections are being held, and then all ministers run to those places. Ministers, do your job, leave local choices to those people who are there. I come from a small place where DS and SPS are in power, however, the SPS is not full of the mandate of this summoning, where he was neither or perhaps he was one minister. If there was an emergency local election there, then everyone would come. Do something, as responsible people, without making a choice, at the time of your term of office, and I don't think you're going to do it. One of the Deputy Prime Ministers, Mr Djelic, said -- Serbia's failure to enter the EU costs us on an annual basis between two and three billion. Who are our ministers now? Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you will agree, when you and we were in power that ministers were economic and otherwise proven people. Now we have ministers, maybe not all of them, those people who don't know where and what they did. What are they trying to do now? They are trying to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia how nice it is to join the EU and use money from pre-accession funds, but these LDPs have already started to criticise you, because they say you would only take the money, and you and we have not met those obligations, I mean you, the ruling coalition and LDP, which you would be obliged to implement to be able to talk about the EU. Something that was necessary to implement in the state of Serbia, it is privatisation, a stain fell. Probably a small number of privatised businesses were implemented in a good and legal way, and much greater, incomparably, than privatisation in this way was implemented with all possible abuses, from abuse of positions and certain ministers and people in power, to finally breaking the law that regulated that area. You've allowed some, I'll tell the tycoons to buy 30, 50, I don't know how many companies. When someone didn't create something, he can't even have a real sense of that value and he's willing to make one, maybe he's, I mean the man who bought a certain company, because of one that he created to destroy the other 30, 50, maybe more or less, and it's all the same and the relevant thing, to launder money from these companies, to make it nice for him. What does Serbian citizens have to do with it? Of course they don't have anything. I'm interested in three draft laws. These are the draft laws confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on legal aid in civil and criminal matters, a bill confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on the extradition and a bill confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. These legal proposals, if the government in the state of Serbia, I mean the rule of law since 2000, were responsible, perhaps not. Montenegro had a strong desire for the Mil Djukanovic regime to break the SRJ first and then the Serbia-Montenegro community, which was supported to the greatest extent possible by Belgrade authorities. Why was that done? Because the government was criminalised during a period or a number of people who have such a past and present were prepared and in close co-operation with representatives of the government, and that Montenegro would serve them as a good place to hide after even crimes committed, from murder, perhaps the most important state officials, and beyond. You don't want to, I have to tell you that in addition to keeping that community seriously, we wouldn't have to pass these laws, but now that you've passed those laws, they won't have any more serious application in practice. Here, you see only this one law that speaks of confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on legal aid in civil and criminal matters. Article 10: "If the requested authority has not been able to satisfy the applicants, it will immediately inform the requesting authority and will return the act, stating the reasons why it could not act on the application". This is the formal nature of this law. There's always a reason why he won't act and it'll be returned. Then, no legal aid. The requested State will refuse to provide legal assistance if the conditions for granting legal assistance provided for in this Treaty are not met. The requested State may refuse to grant legal assistance if it considers that satisfying the applicants would endanger its sovereignty or security or would be contrary to its legal order. You can always be called upon by the requested state to have such a problem and here there are several other legal provisions that will essentially mean nothing. Perhaps they wouldn't have put themselves in the process of these legal proposals if one big problem hadn't appeared, had Darko Saric, who began to threaten, these are your statements, your press reports about it, and the highest state bodies. When that came up as a problem, let's fight it now. I don't think you have the willingness to deal with these problems. These are very serious problems. Why? Because criminals are mixed up with those who exercise power. You see one situation where one Thursday there was a prime minister with several ministers and when someone asked about Mr. Dark Saric, do you remember that, Mr. Legion, for Mr. Dark Saric, the prime minister said -- he was given citizenship at a time when Vojislav Kostunica was prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Then a round of applause was spilled in those parliamentary groups supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia. For what? Does it matter when he's got citizenship? It is important in an attempt, in order for all those who think in an illegal way to gain wealth, or to endanger vital state functions, to stand up to them and to be arrested in time, or processed, and if guilty, to answer for it, and if not guilty, that would be good. You're not ready for that kind of thing. In this we cannot cooperate with you, and therefore once again, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I have cited more serious reasons why we should pay attention to everyone together, but not because of us, but because of those who sent us here, whose interests we represent, we are doing more seriously and more seriously to all the legal proposals that are here. Serbian citizens expect us to say what they are telling us in the face of them and to express our views that they see what we think of certain political matters. Your struggle to join the EU cannot be the only priority of this government and the sale of few other companies, and nobody takes care of the citizens of Serbia, how they live, how and how they educate their children, and how and how they will treat their old and sick parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39018	National MP Gordana Milosavljevic. You've got 13 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have 14 draft laws ahead of us. I will talk about the law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. The first member of this bill states - the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, drawn up on 25 October 2007. It's 2010. Since 2007, you have failed to confirm this law in this assembly. Therefore, the SRS parliamentary group believes that the Serbian government is responsible for the fact that they are sexually abused and exploited by children because of the poor economic and social situation in Serbia. That's why many girls and men are forced to commit prostitution. Today, about 200 million children are used in the sex industry. For SRS rape and child abuse, as well as neglecting children, is a crime that must be punished. Sexual crime is related to emotionally unstable or mentally ill persons. Sexual abuse and child exploitation are performed exclusively by aggressive and impulsive persons. Sexual violence is one form of antisocial behavior, with the existence of a disturbed structure of moral values and character. Ammorality and low social standards, with increased aggression, are typical attributes of persons prone to sexual exploitation and child abuse. The consequences of the economic and social crisis in which Serbia is being destroyed by the entire society, the family, and especially by children. The bad economic situation is a chronic, exhausting factor that leads to violence and an increase in sexual crime. The rescue from uncertainty at a time of crisis, a young person, as I said both men and girls up to 18 years old, is found in very often amoral actions, such as prostitution. Families, especially children, who belong to the poorest category of population in Serbia, are on the verge of existence, so many abuse them, giving them false hopes of getting rich overnight. The poor economic situation has weakened the purchasing power of parents, so they are not in a position to provide their children with diverse content, so children manage, unfortunately, in various immoral ways. Today, the government has expressed its concern for the family, especially the children. The government adopts laws, signs international declarations, but does not respect and implement them. Labour and Social Policy Minister Rasim Ljajic said the Serbian family is in crisis and that 255,000 families in Serbia are poor. The Serbian Radical Party advocates strengthening and surviving the family, especially families with children facing poverty. The government must make efforts to improve family conditions, as the family is the biggest support in the lives of young people. The most endangered category of the population in Serbia, I have already said, are children. From about two million children in Serbia to 18 years old, one quarter lives below the poverty line. All these children grow up without incentives, without adequate health care measures, with reduced hygiene habits, without cultural and sports content. Every tenth child is malnourished. Care for children and young people and their basic development needs leads only in one direction, towards the creation of traumatized adults and potential minors of delinquency, drug abuse and sexual crime. Rape is one of the most severe psychophysical traumas that leaves permanent changes in the personality of a child. In addition to rape, children are subjected to cruel and monstrous psychological and physical abuses, which can lead to the destruction of the lives of children, which we are daily witnesses to. It's unacceptable and it needs to be changed as soon as possible. Mental abuse goes from threats, intimidation, blackmail, humiliation, to brutal sexual experiences. All the things I've been talking about, sexual exploitation, sexual abuse, should be a reminder to the government of the Republic of Serbia and that this problem has already been addressed in an adequate way, as the percentage of these crimes has been increased in the last ten years. We are afraid that the law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse will remain the same dead letter on paper, that in practice they will not liven up that, unfortunately, children will continue to be abused. We don't think you have the courage to face this big problem. We need to focus more seriously on all the legal problems ahead of us, because the citizens of Serbia expect it from us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39020	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if anyone who has not applied his right to Article 93 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? You want to do business? Here you go. Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, while you were in charge of the session about 40 minutes ago, I can say that article 105 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure on your part and Article 104 by the speaker who was speaking at the time. I can see that in that speech there is a series of lies and fictions in that people's speech, when there is no cat, a mouse round of water. What happened about half an hour ago, it looks to me like that session period between a year and a half ago, when we had a situation to see a group of MPs who were acting in violation of the Parliament’s reputation. The facts are now that the SNS are supporting the tycoons, to finance Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and even to the point where members of Mr Nikolic's family are called in this Serbian Assembly. It's obvious that many people mind the popularity of SNS and those parties who compete to beat invalid ballots in all elections, so they mention some cows and sheep, which are noble animals, although they are animals, and if they are human, it's something ugly, so I'd ask them not to plead on that issue anymore. They also seem to mind a million signatures collected by the SNS to call early republican elections. It's obvious they'll never be able to do that again. It seems to me that the goal of these shows is to disable the SNS, which is the only one who can beat the DS, to win...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39022	Time. Mr Arsic, according to my assessment, there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, even though I should now take another chance to ask all MPs to take care of their performances and verbalizations, the dignity of the Assembly, the dignity of every man, every MP. All those who place and sign quotes, and mention MPs and families, should have full responsibility for the matter and bear that responsibility. There really isn't any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, in voting day, we'll be able to tell if I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Martinovic, I started to conclude the session, I didn't realize. I am concluding a joint single search on the drafts of the law on items 31 to 44 of the agenda. I thank Mr. Sutanovac and his associates. We're continuing our work. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39023	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, the SRS cannot take lessons in good education from people whose bosses swear in the National Assembly, they insult. As for a million signatures, whether all millions of signatures are collected in a valid way, whether there are counterfeits, we're not getting into it, but we don't care about their signature collection action, because there's no fundamental difference between DS and SNS. If you find me one point in the program of these two parties where the difference is, I will thank you deeply. It's all the same. At the scene, it was seen in the case of the Srebrenica declaration. People who here, i.e. at the old National Assembly building, spread posters that said "Bulevar Ratko Mladic", "Safe house for Ratko Mladic", "Ratko Mladic a Serb hero", after two or three years they said in such a way -- that they should co-operate with The Hague tribunal. Ratko Mladić is a criminal. There was genocide in Srebrenica, etc. On the other hand, here we are talking about very specific things, things that should be dealt with by a public prosecutor, police and courts. This is about the fight against organised crime and a particular political party, which does not receive dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and has the most important campaign in local elections. Their boss recently said that Serbia's elections are not a expensive political sport. I'm sorry, they are. Anyone who understands politics a little bit, in elections, knows how much they cost. The SRS asks only one fundamental question – where does the money come from to a foreigner who is not financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia? (President: Time. Someone's funding her. If it's not funded by the state, it's financed by the mob.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39024	There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and everything you have stated absolutely cannot be brought under the argument that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Do you want parliament to declare itself in the day of the vote? No, I don't. I thank you. You have no right to a replica. We move to point 45-58 of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE LAW ON CONSERVATION OF THE ECONOMY AND SARADY CONSERVATION WITH INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS WITH TURS, ECONOMY AND TURISM, CONVENTION ON COURT TURISM, WITH MALT, CCE, ESTONY, IRSIA, LIBIA AND CATEOR ON THE EXECUTION OF THE DELECTION OF DOUBLE INVESTURISM The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the occasion of a joint single search on points 45 to 58 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the motions Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance and Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, I have called for the presence of Vesna Arsic and Goran Petkovic, State Secretarys of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Vuk Djoković and Vesna Hreljac-Ivanović, Assistant Minister of Finance, Jelena Marjanović and Renta Pinjo, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Ljiljana Milić, Head of Division and Vera Janković, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Mr Dejan Dabetic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Stanka Radan, Srdjan Stević, Vojina Milić and Jaslav Vuković, Minister of the Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for the law on the approval of international agreements under points 45 to 58 of the agenda, and before moving to a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94, it is appropriate. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed in the following way: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Electoral Group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to file a statement with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Dragan Stevanović – SRS. There are no other suggestions. In accordance with Article 152, paragraph 3, and with Article 142(2), paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey on Economic Co-operation; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Co-operation in the field of infrastructure projects, the Proposal for a Law on the Treaty on Economic Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on the Co-operation of the Republic of Serbia on the Co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with the Treaty on the Co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Kuwait; Proposal of the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union with the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Functioning of the Functioning of the Republic of the European Union; Proposal for the European Union to the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union, I'm setting a 60-minute break. So, at 6:20 p.m., we continue our work. I have two options, either I give you my word now or after my break. I give you my word now, we're on the wire.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39025	Just to ask you, regarding article 100, the possibility that the moment you hurt the Rules of Procedure, and by Article 85, I ask you, is there an emergency situation in the middle that we've been working all day, and we can't get a break that we can't even find out at which point of the agenda we're at, given the speed you're reading? Indeed, because of my absence for about an hour, I wanted to ask – were there any extraordinary circumstances that we are working on with this dynamic today? That was my question, and about your violation of the Rules of Procedure for taking a break during the time when the usual daily work actually ends.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39026	Mrs. Comić, who chaired at the time when an explanation of the presidency was given, therefore, in the name of all of us, gave a practical answer to this question of yours now asked. So, it was about 2:00 p.m., when it was decided that we'd be working on the agenda point that's at 6:00 p.m. on the agenda and after it's over. We've evaluated, I'll give you my word, just to answer this question, so it's already planned to work today after 1800 hours, by the point on the agenda. We've moved on to that point. The MPs are entitled to a one-hour break, and that's exactly what I've decided. Here, you have the word, re-advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39027	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure based on the fact that it wasn't done today for the first time. We started work yesterday, that at the opening of the session, you extended the work to over 1800 hours, and with the point that will be on the agenda, Mrs. Comic remembers perfectly, we have a stenogram, saying that if we finish the previous set of points, the session will continue after 1800 hours, and with a set of points that discussed the section and those rules about telecommunications. So, since yesterday, you've introduced a rule that at 10:00 p.m., at the opening of the session, the session extends to over 6:00 p.m., which means that it's a plan that represents your unusually fast work, which really doesn't allow a man to follow a session with his own, although extraordinary, physical and mental powers. So it's not a newspaper, we've been working like this since yesterday, I don't know why.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39028	The Rules of Procedure provide the possibility that during the working day, we may have one hour break at a time when the chairman of the evaluations is the most comprehensive, and indeed taking into account the mental and physical abilities of all of us. I doubt it's a big problem, especially for your guy's intellectual, to follow this. Thank you. [[After break – 18.20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. Here you are, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you have before you the proposals for legislation to confirm bilateral agreements, so seven of them, on the economic co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with the two countries, the Republic of Turkey and Montenegro, then on mutually encouraging and protecting investments, also with two countries, Montenegro and Portugal, on co-operation in the area of infrastructure with Turkey, on economic and technical co-operation with Kuwait and on tourism co-operation with Kuwait. In addition to the proposal for a law to confirm bilateral agreements, you also have before you an international convention on temporary imports. It's about what happened. The Istanbul Convention and, finally, six draft laws confirming a double taxation agreement between the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and Estonia, Ireland, Qatar, Libya, Malta and the Czech Republic. You will allow me to say a few words about the agreements, above all on the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the governments of the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro. I would not speak here if Montenegro were a relatively significant partner and, secondly, a neighbour, that Montenegro and I had an exchange of about a billion dollars, that there are many areas that deserve to be intensified in the exchange, so that the basic elements of this agreement are priority areas, as well as the tasks of a mixed commission. Priority areas are identified as very broad areas: industry, agriculture, forestry, energy, research and development of the construction industry, traffic, environmental protection, tourism. So very wide. It's similar with Turkey. A number of priority areas have been defined, but I would take this opportunity to remind you of the activities the government of the Republic of Serbia had compared to Turkey in 2009. If you remember, a Free Trade Agreement has been signed and the application of this Agreement begins from 1 May. Also, there is co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects, which in the first phase refers to financing the highways in the Raška area. These are the roads of Sjenica – Novi Pazar and Novi Pazar – Tutin. The 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia has been planned for these 30m-dollar routes, the loan is provided by the "Exim" Bank of Turkey. As you know, the international legal framework for foreign investment is an international multilateral agreement and regional and bilateral agreements. In October 2007, the government adopted a typical draft bilateral agreements to encourage and protect the investments of the Republic of Serbia and these type agreements have their own standards. Standards are fair and equal treatment, the treatment of the most privileged nation, the prohibition of application of discriminatory measures towards foreign investors, the right to fair compensation in the event of expropriation, the right to compensation for losses, the right to freedom of transfer of income from investment and the right to international arbitration. The Republic of Serbia has adopted 44 bilateral agreements so far. Among them with all former Yugoslav republics, with all neighbours and mostly with all EU countries. I also remind you of a bilateral agreement on economic and technical co-operation with Kuwait. Kuwait and I had very significant economic relations by 1990. Co-operation took place in the area of investment, defence, the financial-banking sector of trade in goods. After 1990, the co-operation was silent. This was a way to get the co-operation with Kuwait back to that level that was in the 1990s. The next group of laws I would also like to give a few sentences are laws on confirming a double tax avoidance agreement. As we all know, one of the basic postulates of the good tax system is that every income dinar should be taxed once and only once. If you repeatedly tax the same dinar of income, it speaks of an inefficient tax system or, like that, if a dinar is left untaxed, it also speaks of an inefficient tax system. Of course, in life there are cases where you are able to tax the same dinar two or three times, and these are the following situations – the principle of residence and the principle of source. The principle of residence - all residents of one country are taxed on the incomes they earn, no matter where that income is realised. They can make that income in another country. The source principle – all income made in one country is subject to taxation, regardless of who made it, resident or non-resident. In which tax forms do this problem occur most often? It's income tax, profit, property tax. This is why, in order to avoid double taxation, or tax systems, there are two ways. One way is for the country to decide not to tax twice and another is bilateral agreements. When it comes to bilateral agreements, those that are ahead of you today on the agenda, therefore, mainly relate to income tax and, in one case, to profit tax. I would remind you that the first bilateral agreements have started since the '60s. We had the first bilateral relations to avoid double taxation in 1974 with France, and became active in 1975. Today we have 37 ratified in both countries. So, contracts that are in place, 12 signed, and yet unwarranted, 13 negotiations completed, and 10 negotiations are under way. There's 70 of them somewhere. Mostly developed countries have about a hundred such agreements. Thank you for your attention, and now I give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39031	Do the representatives of the committees want a word: the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Trade and Tourism, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee – no? Did MEPs Velimir Ilic and Milan Veselinovic, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Transport and Communications, issue an opinion, want a word? Mr. Milan Veselinovic wants a word. (Zoran Krasic, from place: The opposition leads 17 to 9 in relation to power. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's Mr. Krasic said how many opposition MPs lead. Really, in front of an empty room, talking is a little weird and hard. But it is a matter of you who during the day forced more than 30 counts to be discussed and, of course, the MPs are tired and unable to cope with such laws, agreements, contracts, etc. In front of the SRS, I have issued an opinion on this set of agreements, there are seven of them, i.e. I have specifically cast an emphasis on the law regarding the agreement between Serbia and Turkey on infrastructure projects. I've singled this opinion out from both economic and political perspectives, so for two reasons. First, I'm going to say the economic reason. Since this law, i.e. the agreement applies to the Raska area as Mrs Dragutinovic says, although those who write these agreements, contracts and laws are unfortunately talking about "Sandzak". In fact, this law provides for an agreement with Turkey on the construction of the roads of Novi Pazar – Tutin and Novi Pazar – Sjenica. It is as a priority, and other areas, related to economic co-operation, then technical co-operation and social co-operation are mostly agreements, where an explanation is given – how old friendly relations with Turkey will spread. You know, I come from those parts where the fresh remains of the Ottoman Empire, the Ottoman Empire, where they are spoken today, I don't know -- the Turkish Kaldrma, the Turkish guzzle, the Turkish Bed, the Turkish Jada, and the Turkish highway will probably be spoken now. But, well, it's a fact, and I've been on the Committee, and I always say that the worst infrastructure, especially the road, is in the Rasca area. Any benevolent man who makes it there and a meter of times, an asphalt road or anything for that end, I'd thank him and I'd be happy. In this case, for economic reasons, I'd just like to read you the explanation that you wrote here about this agreement. It is said that the conclusion of the agreement is primarily aimed at attracting Turkish investment in the Republic of Serbia and hiring Turkish enterprises to build infrastructure facilities of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, as it is realised through crediting under special favourable conditions. Then he says -- with the Serbian side it is agreed that the priority project under this agreement should be the construction and reconstruction of road infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia and the state roads of Novi Pazar – Tutin R11 – 8a and Novi Pazar – Sjenica, MA, as well as the associated travel facilities. A business proposal for co-operation is for the realisation of projects financed by Exim Bank of Turkey under the benefit of conditions, to be hired by the appropriate Turkish company and to pay off loans to secure a state guarantee. I have read this for the sake of the people and for the messengers, that they may hear what agreement we have made and whose harm it is going to. I understand that someone donated, so as I said, let it be called the Turkish Jada or the highway, but in this case, 30 million dollars is credited, Exim Bank from Turkey, and the same job is done by Turkish companies and companies, and we normally give the guarantee and we repay the loan. So that's what's worrying about in this agreement. You know, Turkey's expansion to both the Balkans and Central Asia, as well as the Caucasus, has been expanding since the collapse of the Soviet Union, especially according to the Balkans, BiH, Serbia and Macedonia, and above all to the Raska area and the KIM. There are, therefore, claims that through these investments, someone abuses this, and many studies analytically, as well as geopolitically, show that these are the tendencies of the present Turkey. I will only support this with some facts, regarding this strategy, and they also refer to a statement by a Turkish official, i.e. The strategy is a carefully-placed visit to Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan, as planned, that about eight million Turkish citizens, originating in BiH, Serbia and Macedonia, can if it wants to get dual citizenship -- Turkish, which it already has, and those countries from which they emigrated. That idea is...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39033	It's been five minutes. I'll ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39034	Can I use party time?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39035	Please don't. I was a little intolerant of you today, that's enough. Thank you. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Just to inform you that the authorised representative for the SRS parliamentary group is MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an authorised representative, within this set of laws, I will generally limit myself to two laws, which you least spoke of. They didn't even come from your ministry, at least according to the suggestions we received on the agenda doesn't say that. One here was to represent Mr Ljajic, and the other needed Minister Dinkic or someone from his portfolio or ministry. I think these are two laws that really need to be said a few sentences. It seems to me that part of those things that should be spoken of and to be insisted on, was just said by my colleague Milan Veselinović – because I think there are some things that are easy to go through here. These laws regarding our economic co-operation and economic relations with Turkey, we think that the government also has knowledge that it is not all so easy, simple and formal, as someone here tried to show it – so within 20 points we will push through everything, and what is needed and what is not needed. What's this about? These laws and agreements can also be criticised from a formal character – as they are written, with a certain amount of generality, surfaces are approached. That's what I'll try to explain when I look back at concrete members. Some things were tendantly tried to hide and not put into the normative part of the text, but unfortunately for reasons. It seems to me that these agreements have one political background that is not benign, which we will talk about not wanting in any way to challenge the need for everyone in the Raška area to get good roads, to move the economic momentum in that part of Serbia, but we believe that the model of economic development still has to have some meaning and must see, above all, the interests of the Republic of Serbia. In a debate conducted earlier this afternoon, the government's minister said Serbia had received over two billion and 700 million dinars through co-operation with many countries in the previous period. At the same time, he said that all those who gave us money through agreements and co-operation, the Ministry of Defence said – you give the money, but we know better how this money should be spent in Serbia. These two agreements seem to be the opposite. I think that through these two agreements others determine what our priorities are, others because of their political, economic and any other superiority in relation to Serbia recognize them and impose them on us. That's what's not good here. So I'm not talking about the economic character, aspect and the fact that 30m euros will be spent in the territory of the Republic of Serbia through investments, but the way it will be done and whether it will have certain political consequences, the government needs to do so today, and must think about it. What's interesting about all this? The agreements with Kuwait, Malta, Estonia, Ireland, Libya and Turkey have been launched by those countries. If these were our interests, why didn't we start it? It's one thing that can be resented, and the other thing is why the state is inert. Why doesn't the state run such agreements that are useful to us? Why doesn't the state start initiatives to get their embassies or governments to accept it, but it's just going in the opposite direction? They're running, we're taking it. We can understand if we really have economic benefits. The fact is, that double taxation can only be solved like this. We're not saying that it can always be and should be harmful, but the state needs to assess what its interests are and how, according to certain ambitions, both economically and politically, on the other hand, it needs to be set up. As regards the legislation on confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on economic co-operation, it was said in a statement that it is necessary, among other things, because of the overcoming of the agreement reached in May 76. If you look at this agreement, or regulation on ratification of this 1976 agreement, it is several times more serious and written, you will not resent me, drawn up than this one now. You could have just changed Serbia and dates here, and you wouldn't have done anything wrong. But then some experts interfered, experts from the RS government and wrote an agreement. Look, now in this agreement, let's say, in Article 1, they define the objectives of this agreement and now the objectives are defined so that five points are written in different ways only one and the same thing. It seriously disqualifies those who wrote this. It took a more serious way, more content, a more professional way of making access to this, and definitely making it more and more. So, the framework of the agreement, as much as this is a general document that will simplify the contracts of the lower order, but you're really this, of course, not about you at this point, given that you weren't preparing this, but about your ministry. For example, look at this - the fourth goal, it encourages co-operation in areas of common interest relating to economic development. The fifth point, stronger co-operation in order to improve the two countries' economic relations overall. In the third, it promotes the activities of individual sectors with the aim of increasing bilateral, economic and technical and technological co-operation. Same thing. Here, let's take it and assume I'm not criticizing the agreement, but how does one who writes this qualify? The circus. Who's the writer of this document to take seriously? It won't and no one can. That's one thing. Look further. For example, in Article 6, this is the principle of most of these disputes, but it gives room for one serious analysis – dispute resolution. Any dispute between the parties relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement will be settled, without undue delay, in friendly consultations and negotiations. Eleven times at least are economically stronger than we are. I just said, through these infrastructure projects that I'm going to talk about a little bit later and which, I suppose, my colleagues are going to say something, Turkey has defined what our infrastructure interests are in this area. This is the first step that this consensus will not be, first proof, the first reason we suspect that partnership in the whole story will be established and that Turkey will not implement its political interests in these areas through these agreements. You have to accept the fact and you, Madam Minister, Turkey as a regional force, if I may put it this way, which one of my friends says, the largest aircraft carrier on this part of the globe American, has a very, very, and does not hide, great interest in certain areas of that so-called. the region of the Western Balkans. All of this must be taken into account by this country and should not run away from it and take into account all political aspects in order to design its economic perspective and future and its economic co-operation and relations with all, regardless of who it is. Furthermore, defeating relations that define figures in our trade with Turkey. What good are we going to do for all this? Who's actually going to benefit from all this? Do you have any idea what the benefits of this agreement will be? We'll import more cheaply textiles. What can we offer the Turks seriously? After all, what has the government done in parallel with fixing or fixing opportunities in the real sector today in Serbia, so that we can exit adequately to the Turkish market? How much money does it take for the state to introduce in different sectors the standards that our goods will be curent on their market? What are we going to stand up to them for? The ratio of our exports there and their exports to Serbia is immeasurable. Who knows how many times there's a difference. If we take out 50 of them, and they hit us here 300 million dollars or euros, it's no big deal, that's what we should have taken care of. If we're going to look for interest in all this now because we're going to bring down customs duties again at the expense of our own country and the income side of the budget and our businessmen are going to say, we're going to benefit from this because we're going to have cheaper imports of textiles, our prices are going to be lower and we're going to be more dickier on some market. It's really, it seems to us, very thin for one of these agreements. This second agreement relating to the infrastructure project, i.e. infrastructure projects, is very interesting. Now, look at this, for example, in Article 3 where activities are defined, all activities are defined except surveillance, where parties agree that cooperation within the meaning of this Agreement involves the preparation of the project, so implementation, and the acquisition of goods, the implementation of works and the provision of technical assistance. He's got everything but control. I suppose surveillance will define through direct contracts and agreements, but everything else will be defined as this agreement, so let's say, this surveillance should or could have found its place. Unfortunately, we can't change the deal here, we can only see what's wrong with it and what shouldn't stand the way it is. Now, watch this performance contracts thing. "The implementation of the activities referred to in Article 3 of this Agreement can be attended by performers in party countries whose choice is being made by the country's authority in which the project is being implemented." Everything would be nice if it was over here. But then it goes "on the basis of a proposal from the performer, which delivers a party that is a lender in a concrete project". What does that mean? We will be able to choose what the Turkish side proposes. It literally says that here. But then in Article 6(3), you go further to the performance of the works: "The contractor of the 1st Article's position is obliged to hire a subcontractor based in the country where the project is implemented" etc. Serbia will give its subcontractor, and who will be the performer? Be careful. The status of contractors who will spend money from Turkey is not defined by the agreement, but do you know where it is defined? In an explanation. And you know what it says in the explanation: "The basic precondition for co-operation is for the realization of a project that would be financed from Turkey's Eksim Bank loan, under the well-fused conditions, to be hired by the appropriate Turkish company." They give us money, credit, a loan under "beneficiary" or as they say in terms, we withdraw, we borrow, we commit ourselves and our children to repay these debts and we have no right to choose who does the work. Who's gonna be the contractor? Who guarantees us that there will be no company from Turkey with three employees, who will launder money, such as some companies and our experiences with some forms that have carried out such large infrastructure projects and works? Who's to guarantee us that? Nobody guarantees it. In these things, the entire weakness of the state is seen. Thirty million euros or dollars, insignificantly, are not the money that makes it so casually, unseriously and non-shallantly approach and enter into agreements, especially when you have in mind the fact that Turkey is always an exponent of the US policy, a policy with less and less resistance in the EU, a policy that is dominantly re-represented in decisions, in decisions among those making EU policy. Those who oppose them in some way are opposed to Turkey, but this now opens the last segment of the story, which are the political aspects of their interest in this space. These agreements and Turkey's influence on this area raises strategic problems for Serbia. Do you think the South Stream is accidentally late and going dirty? No, I don't. And this is one of the reasons. Turkey's intensity and intention to be present in these areas is the reason why it has problems today in Serbia. Protagonists also hear and speak against the project clearly and openly in Serbia. Unfortunately, I have touched this South of it, the only one in Europe who possibly has the power to say something in this context against the United States, which protagonize, or promote "Nabuko", which should exploit Caspian oil, oil from the Middle East, for which Turkey is directly interested, only the Germans still oppose it, and because of this courage they have, they get half the cheaper gas we get. But as far as Serbia is concerned, we must take care of our interests. These agreements are acceptable, but the minimum of national and political interests in this country must be protected and taken into account. We don't think that Turkey approached all of this naively, as it was written or as they were, fleeing from here, and representing or representing the government, in this they tried to direct us and point us to it. We finance the infrastructure network, you'll understand what I'm saying, a region in that so-called region. The Western Balkans, which includes an ethnic group that Turkey is interested in. You know that well. We are not making this money the infrastructure of Serbia, we are making a regional road M 8 Sarajevo – Novi Pazar. All that has to be taken care of. It's good when the opposition points to that, but we can start our story and end up here. You, as representatives of the government, are obliged to recognize these things. We have no doubt that you don't have the capacity to do this, but obviously you don't want to stand up to these things or, possibly, you don't have the strength. We are not against Serbia getting roads, but we are not against Serbia getting them at all costs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39037	Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search of the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted by the SNS and SRS parliamentary groups. I give my word to Mr. Mica Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39038	Thank you, Madam President. Before I move on to this set of laws from the ninth joint single search, I must remind you that you are the President of Parliament and also to ask you what the statement means that you are to one of us or a certain group during the day or during the part of the day too tolerated? So, just to remind you that you are the President of Parliament and that such statements are inappropriate. Dear Madam Minister, you are one of the few ministers who in this assembly, and unfortunately both members of both the government and the opposition, uses the term "Old Raška". I admire that. You're really using one correct term, but I'm afraid that someone doesn't mind you for that, because that term here in the Assembly, in all the institutions, in all the media, is almost forgotten and we all use the term Sandzak instead. In the context of the ninth joint single search, consisting of 14 points, I would, in the context of my presentation, mostly because you said yourself that this set of laws contained laws in the area of economic co-operation and other co-operation related to two countries, i.e. the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Montenegro, was kept at the first two points of this ninth joint Single Search, and this was the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey on Economic Co-operation and a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey on co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects. I must ask you whether there is a law with another country on agreements in the area of infrastructure projects other than this proposed agenda and the proposed point, as is the case between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey, that is, their governments? Could not all of this have been put in the draft law to confirm an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey within the framework of this economic co-operation. That this is what the proposal for this law says, which is mostly not like the law, but another new loan from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all of us in the area of infrastructure, and that in the area of Stara Raska. It is about the reconstruction of the state roads of Novi Pazar – Tutin R118A and Novi Pazar – Sjenica – Aljinovići M8, as well as the associated roads between the Republic of Serbia and the Exim of the Bank of Turkey worth 30 million US dollars. As a result, it is concluded that the law confirming the agreement between our two countries in the area of infrastructure projects is not like law, but another law on borrowing, crediting the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that, as far as the SNS is concerned, we really are advocates that with all countries, especially countries in the environment, and in this case it is the Republic of Turkey, we must have excellent diplomatic and all other relations, but we must ask ourselves – what does Turkish politics mean in the last two years in the Balkans. Turkish diplomacy has been extremely present for the past two decades in the area of the former republics of the SFRY, namely in the areas of the Republic of Serbia, especially BiH and in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, this policy during this period was mainly through various international institutions and within some American activity in these areas, but in the last two years this policy has changed dramatically. I am not saying this because of meddling in the diplomacy of the Republic of Turkey, but also because of a complete analysis that has been made officially in the area of Turkish diplomacy's action on the Balkans' premises. In the last two years, the action has focused on creating Turkey as a stronger regional force in these areas, regional global forces, and this is quite understandable because of the EU's humiliating relationship with the Republic of Turkey. Since 1987, the Republic of Turkey has been standing at the door of the EU and even some EU member states have announced a referendum if the Republic of Turkey is granted equal status as EU member. I am saying this because of this finding and the situation of changing politics, i.e. changing Turkish diplomacy in relation to both the EU and bringing co-operation with Russia closer to co-operation in diplomacy in the areas of the Balkans, the Caucasus, the Middle East. Normally, where Turkey, as a country already in the earlier period, would have excellent co-operation with US diplomacy and, in that situation, would be considered the most important associate of US diplomacy among the so-called. In the Islamic world, a country that has 73 million inhabitants, a highly developed economy and all that is needed, except for the part of diplomacy, was a regional global force in this area. Hence, and that turn in Turkish politics. We can't forget the beginning of 2009, when Turkish diplomacy, through its foreign minister, interfered with the resolution of various political views and interests, so-called. Bosniak parties in BiH. First, the Party of Democratic Action, the Party for BiH and the SDP, and these efforts were to overcome the problem and later address the problem between the so-called. Bosniak parties, or representatives of Bosniak parties, both in the Republic of Serbia and in the Serbian parliament. Part of the initiative is bearing fruit and I have nothing against it, and part of the initiative, unfortunately, as it was most important in BiH, has not yielded fruit. Due to such complete EU behaviour not only towards Turkey, but also to certain countries which are countries of Europe and not EU members, such a turn and behaviour is taking place, especially the minister, namely the policy of Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu in the past two years and the interest and change that in excellent relations with the United States and in increasing relations with the Russian Federation, Turkey becomes a regional global partner in these areas. Regarding the disputed law, i.e. a controversial loan to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the area of co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects in the part of the reconstruction of these roads located in the premises of Stara Raška or so on. Sandzak, indeed, who didn't pass those paths doesn't understand the need to be part of those roads and done. Unfortunately, we have a situation where ministers do not know Serbia. We have a situation that Serbia is only familiar with the campaign to the campaign, but for people living in those areas, both Serbs and Bosniaks, these roads almost look like roads, as well as all other roads that are unfortunately not the subject of this law, i.e. this loan contract, and also the road from Aljinovic to Prepolje, which applies to the shortest regional road in the area, no one is mentioned anywhere, and no one in Belgrade is considering these roads. The behaviour of the authorities in the Republic of Serbia towards these parts has been very interesting in the past 20 years, and indeed the situation has led to the necessary need for reconstruction of all these routes mentioned under this infrastructure project law. The Republic of Serbia should have thought of that before this moment and that, as in other areas where there are no destinations, some ministers, inevitable ministers or those who have laid down or destroyed governments all these ten years since 2000, so to speak, create unknown destinations for destinations. The people in those areas were denied infrastructure, for good roads. Good for you, President, to have fun watching what's going on in the assembly. I need to talk here, and this is like dating with a member of a parliamentary group, and it's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39039	Mr. Rogovic, I run the session normally. Please, those comments you say don't stand first, and secondly, it's not correct to do what you do. And from your group of MPs sometimes there's a marble, and nothing special is going on in the O.R. You'll have a minute and a half more for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39040	I have no intention of making any personal misunderstanding with you, but I intend to do what is necessary to allow me to speak here in Parliament on the best possible terms. That's the situation you've just made. You should have done it earlier, but well, anyway, it's not the first time or the last time, we've worked on extremely difficult conditions and we've gotten used to all these situations, I'm just telling you that you should take care of all of us and treat everyone the same way. I'm saying that these neighborhoods and people living in those areas in the last 20 years because of their failure to invest in the infrastructure of these parts did not even have a situation for potential potential investors to come to those areas. That is why the whole end of Stara Raska lies on the sidelines of the development of the Republic of Serbia. What is interesting about these two laws on economic co-operation and investment in infrastructure projects between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey? It is interesting that it was signed by Minister Dinkic. It is interesting that the other day, within these over 90 points of the agenda, was also the law on amendments to the Regional Development Act. All the tensions that come first from you, both by the MPs, both the people and the ministers who make up this government, make tensions for the people who live in those areas. Sometimes they're really for no reason. Sometimes there is no practical or realistic criticism of all this. But there is still a real conscious tension in these areas, and I must remind you that there are over 20,000 unemployed people in Novi Pazar, for example. No one's thinking about it. It is thought that, unfortunately, still in those areas, from which I come, political tension will spread, not about how, whether we are Serbs or Bosniaks, we will live better, more successfully, we will have the same rights as everyone here has in Belgrade or in some more developed parts of the Republic of Serbia. These are priorities, and these are the things that you and you, Madam Minister, as one of the first ministers in this government should solve. This contract and these contracts should not be a problem for us at all, except for the problem of tensions which, I say, still come, and various indications of the creation of new regions and everything else and related to the part and the parliamentary group that is in power, as well as part of the ministers who are in power. The citizens of Stara Raška, Sandzak should be provided with better conditions for life, not that on day-political topics we continue to deal with relations that are truly excellent in those areas between Serbs and Bosniaks. The advantage of these parts is only in multiethnicity. Everything else is in big trouble. The survival of both Serbs and Bosniaks in those areas is at risk, drastic indicators from all the municipalities of Stara Raška on daily emigration and Serbs and Bosniaks from those areas, all because they can't really solve their existence and their families, are very worrying. We need to take care of this and we really need to talk about everything else, and one of the priorities for the development of the Old Raška region and the towns of Stara Raška is the infrastructure project, but not through the laws, but through the loans. I wouldn't want to repeat myself like my predecessors already mentioned. As the parts, or members of this law, are made, they look like anything but the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39041	National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39042	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, from a multitude of these draft laws on the validation of various agreements on economic and technical co-operation, mutual incentive and protection of investments between the Republic of Serbia and other countries, I would like to base my discussion on a fundamentally important topic which, in the coming period, should perhaps be based on the quality that this and the next composition of the Republic's parliament will verify similar agreements, which is the tax policy in Serbia. Probably one of the anecdotes of former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, who said that when he asked one question to three economists, he usually received four different answers, two of which only from Canz. One of the more important issues about which there is no actual deviation in opinion is the view that what is happening in that economic part of Serbia is not only the result of the global recession, or the global economic crisis, although, to the truth of will, its contribution is also very significant, but also of a transitional crisis which, above all, is seen in this low international competitiveness of the Serbian economy. How at this point we cannot have a greater impact on the intensity of the recovery of the world economy, what we can certainly do is to have a proper effect on overcoming the situation that is, in some ways, due to this transition crisis. What is evident and likely to agree is that this existing tax system in Serbia is in line with the so far applied concept of economic growth. Thus, average consumption taxes in Serbia are lower than in countries, say, the EU, while taxes on production factors are higher. If it comes from the assumption that the possibilities for a continuation of an existing model that implies a higher consumption than production are practically very limited, it is concluded that a new tax policy, which we are eager to expect for a longer time, new tax policy in Serbia should also promote a change in such behaviour. The existing income tax system, which otherwise prescribes four different legal and even eight effective tax rates, is both horizontally and vertically unfair, is less balanced compared to income taxation systems in some other countries, which makes the need for fundamental reform obvious. In this connection and based on the experiences of other countries, it is clear that Serbia is at its disposal, conditionally speaking, three possibilities. This is either the introduction of a simpler form of synthetic or dual income tax model or a purely proportional income tax. The most significant component of the income tax is the taxation of employees' earnings, and the rate of income tax in Serbia is lower than in most other countries. However, what is the total fiscal tax on earnings, it actually makes it relatively high in Serbia, these are the rates of contributions paid for compulsory social insurance. This also leads to a reduction in the fiscal burden of profits in Serbia being possible by reducing the social contribution rate. In this way, the labour force engagement cost in Serbia would be reduced, which would certainly result in more positive effects, particularly in terms of which it is referred to in this set of laws, in terms of improving the country's international competitiveness, as a result of this reduction in unitary labour costs, which would certainly work in a future period, i.e. incentivise both the inflow of direct investment and employment. Second, it is a reduction in the fiscal burden on earnings that would certainly seem encouraging to reduce work to black, i.e. led to a reduction in the grey labour market. In the context of that story, it's almost 30% still belongs to that so-called. The gray zone. It is clearly one of the problems that is quite burdensome and otherwise difficult in this area in Serbia. Some modern economic research suggests that this change of policy in the field of tax reform should include significant changes in the system of taxation of assets precisely through the reduction of that regression that is now in place. The essence of these reforms would virtually reduce the tax base by amortisation by about 30 to 40% and replace the regressive system of tax credits with a fixed amount tax credit system. This would practically end the practice so far that a member of a wealthy person's family is worth more, and in terms of the relief it brings to the owner of a property than a member of a family of a poorer person. In addition, tax reform should certainly include further fine-tuning of the corporate tax system through increasing its allocative neutrality and simplicity. These changes should basically replace an existing rather complex system of tax incentives with a single investment tax credit regime, as well as a stricter standard for taxing profit repatriation through a hidden dividend. Such a mix, to put it this way, tax measures or tax reforms would certainly create conditions for significantly more favourable investment, employment and exports. What is at this point the problem we are absolutely facing is the fact that this large imports and consumption would certainly make it more expensive. This would, in practice, put Serbia's tax policy in full the role of promoting a long-term sustainable economic growth, and thus, there does not seem to be enough energy to engage at least that economic part of the government of Serbia in one such story and hence there are completely justified objections to the extremely complex socio-economic situation in the country, whether it is business or about its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39043	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda of this session is 69 draft laws confirming agreements and conventions. They are being jointly searched and are being merged by 10 to 15 draft laws in one debate. That all points to the intention of running over these topics as soon as possible. In this group of united agendas we are now talking about, there are 14 different draft laws on the validation of agreements, agreements, conventions. I will talk about the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Portugal on mutual incentive and investment protection. It is explained, as one reason, that by confirming this agreement, it wants to establish a legal basis and a framework in which additional investor attraction from the country will be ensured, especially given that certain Portuguese companies have already expressed interest in coming to the Republic of Serbia. Given the extremely poor state of our economy years ago and that the government has no real ability to change the situation with its own forces, it is logical that those investors who are willing to invest their money in the Serbian economy should be accepted. However, the creation of a legal framework through the signing of the Agreement does not involve itself and the achievement of business co-operation. I'm not saying that this legal framework should not be created, it's a prerequisite, but I want to say that no investor will come to Serbia because he cares about the recovery of the economy and the improvement of economic opportunities, but rather to earn money. Under the conditions of the global economic crisis and exceptional competition, one who invests his money will invest where he is sure to make an expected profit. The recovery of our economy and the improvement of the economic situation in Serbia are responsible for caring for those who exercise power. The government creates an ambience that will either be attractive to investors or not. Serbia currently has a big problem because people who decide on economics are making contradictory moves. In the last few days, we had the opportunity to hear a proposal from the finance minister that the VAT rate would be changed, talking about an 18 to 22% increase. With this measure, you want to achieve a reduction in the consumption of citizens. As a justification for this measure, the rate of income tax is reduced, as a way of increasing employment. I would like to point out that the SRS welcomes absolutely every measure that could lead to the creation of new jobs. However, it is our opinion that this is just an excuse, to tell citizens what they want to hear, because unemployment is what hurts most of Serbia's citizens. This is the story that it will stimulate the employment of those who are unemployed and that VAT will be collected from those who have the opportunity to buy, so that funds will be replaced in this way. I never say anything without arguments, so that someone can say – that's your opinion, but our opinion is different. The argument that I said that increasing employment is only an excuse for the announced VAT increase is in the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget, which the government adopted in December 2009. When we analyze the total estimated revenues and incomes, we see that they amount to 655 billion 971 million dinars, of which the tax revenues are projected to be 609 billion 971 million or 92.98%. When we look at the structure of tax revenues, we see that income tax revenues from citizens are estimated at 76 million dinars, 19,000 dinars or only 12.46% of total tax revenues. What's interesting is the next data. The planned VAT revenues are 325 billion 264 million dinars or even 53.32% of total tax revenues. When we make a comparison between the percentage participation of these two taxes in the total tax revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is clear that the VAT wants to be increased due to the filling of budget gaps, rather than the compensation of what could be lost by cutting the income tax. Since the purchasing power of citizens has fallen to a significant extent anyway, this new imposition could most be affected by those who have the least. Instead of reducing public spending and really starting to save the state apparatus, the measure insists on reducing citizens' consumption. I will briefly look back on another measure of the government of the Republic of Serbia to get out of the economic crisis. A diametric opposite solution has been adopted that should lead to an increase in consumption by means of subsidised loans. Such contradictions in the behaviour of those who define economic policy in no way can act positively on serious investors. On the contrary. You can say that the announced VAT increase will not have much impact on investments and will not have a negative impact on them, however, regardless of certain reliefs when it comes to investment, this unsatisfactory behaviour of the main economic policy players in Serbia is not even a little encouraging for future investors. I will remind only briefly what objections some foreign diplomats have made to the conditions of investment in Serbia. The biggest criticisms were sent to the Privatisation Agency, which is the broker in the sale, and is not responsible for the incomplete documentation provided by privatisation entities. Also, the grudges refer to illegal objects and the like. In any case, in these harsh conditions of the economic crisis, attracting investors is something that needs to be given priority. But it is also necessary to bring attitudes into line when it comes to measures to overcome an economic crisis that is taking too long in Serbia. Finally, start by applying everything the government has characterised as saving the state, and the citizens are being forced to save.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39045	I give my word to Ambassador Milorad Buhi.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39046	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, today this parliament was on the verge of a world record in a parliamentary debate, as we discussed 37 draft laws today. In parliamentary practice, they say the world record broke the Bulgarian parliament, when it adopted 875 laws one day when it harmonised the legal rules between the Bulgarian and European Union parliament. Then the president of parliament only read the laws, and he read seven hours, and parliamentarians adopted it, not individually, but within the set. They say in parliamentary practice that Slovenia is second, when one day it passed 120 laws. We are on our way today to arrive and be first in the world, we are third, but we are on our way to being first in the world because we train. We have not seriously entered the harmonisation of the legal rules, since it expects us to enter the EU if we welcome serious legal and normative action in which we will carry out harmonisation and we will have to adopt, they say, up to four million legal acts, around 10,000 laws and other legal acts. So this is to praise all those qualifications of citizens, certain political structures, NGOs, etc. That this Parliament is not working, it is working. He's on his way. Now, you see, in the world's frameworks, we achieve very observed results. Now let's go back to a few of these legal proposals that we discussed here today. I will talk about two legislative proposals from a legal normative aspect, which are legal regulations, that is, the Law on confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects and the same law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on economic co-operation. We must note, however, that we should have another law in the assembly debate, which is the Law on affirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the field of technical and financial co-operation. Why isn't that included in the agenda, probably those who put together the agenda missed it? That makes one whole. What the SRS can see in these several legislative projects in co-operation with Turkey is that it was an accelerated process and that it really included a broad diapazon of co-operation and this should have included one legal project and one form of co-operation. Since we're discussing two agreements today, we have a third one and we're going to have it in discussion soon, but when we read all these three legal projects, then we see that it's one whole. What are we against these laws? We are not talking about the essential need for co-operation, and good neighbourly co-operation with all countries, but we must look at the normative, economic, financial, and technical co-operation defined by these agreements. Let's start with this agreement on co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects. I'll start with Article 2. Above Article 2 in the title says the Definition of Terms. But when we read the article, then we see that we're just defining traffic infrastructure. There's only one term that we define and then in five or six rows it explains and gives a definition of traffic infrastructure. Why should we define a definition if we define only one concept? Furthermore, above Article 5 stands the title "The Financial Contracts". However, in the light of this member, we do not have any financial aspects or any provision that provides elements of financial contracts. The translator is probably a proponent of the Turkish side, the translator is someone who knows very little about Serbian, so he used to define when he translated titles, subtitles, etc. There was no legal hand here. The lawyers didn't do this. They couldn't miss it like this. For Article 6 – performance contracts, yet not a single element showing the basic elements of the contract. It defines everything but the elements of the contractor's contract. Above Article 8 says – construction and reconstruction of the road network. Not a single word in Article 8 on the construction and reconstruction of the road network. It is said that, in order to finance priority projects, etc., so much and so much funding, but none of this is about building or reconstructing the road network. Why is there a title like that? We can count a lot of things here in the normative-legal sense. The main observation of the SRS is that, in a normative and legal sense, the definition of unclear, empty, incomplete, and in economic terms, there is no economic category that must form an integral part of an agreement on economic co-operation. We don't see her here. She's not here. What is the essence of these agreements and a certain kind of economic, financial and technical, and even in technical co-operation and the elements of humanitarian co-operation and other features of co-operation between the two countries. The Serbian Radical Party supports activities in co-operation not only with Turkey, but also with all countries, but not in this way, in this empty way. This is an incomplete way of completeing all forms of co-operation. Since Diana Dragutinovic is present here, I will use the presence of the finance minister here and point to the failures of the current government in the realisation of financial contracts. I will call for a few statements from the Prime Minister, who said the following at a meeting with the builders. To point out by the builders that we take foreign loans and that foreign creditors determine both labour contractors and subcontractors, and to define even certain financial amounts from financial contracts and basically determine everything. What's the point? The point is, our construction operation isn't working, it can't get serious performances. Executive works are obtained by companies from abroad, which are established after the conclusion of the loan contract, after the start of the credit line, taking over everything from financing, execution and receipt of all construction contracts, sub-letting contracts, etc. without the control of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. To the question and remarks of the builders why this is happening, he said, these are the means of information passed on, that it is appropriate in such conditions that those who determine and give the funds determine the other conditions. Under these other conditions, it is also understood that the contractors of the work, the business bearer and in financial terms, both in economic and in terms of implementation and construction. A similar finding in this parliament was said by the Minister of Infrastructure Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic when he is here, and he repeated it on several occasions in means of information – well, it is appropriate, it is common in world practice for all those who determine the funds to give and this remains. It may be common in the world, but what are the devastating consequences of Serbian national interests, especially the financial system of the Republic of Serbia? Now I'm going to explain them in a few sentences. When a contractual clause is set monopolisticly, in which someone gets the right to receive priority tasks and all other jobs, particularly financial ones, it also sets out all the conditions under which sublet contracts will continue to be concluded and to carry out all other things from that contractual relationship. In its calculations it enters, and the construction firms say it's between 15% and 18%, it's for whoever gets the job priority. Now, first of all, when you explain it in parliament here and when you propose certain loan agreements and you suggest ratification of these contracts, you tell me -- that these are very acceptable credit lines, with a library that is now one and something, with a margin of between 2 and 2.5-3%, and that these are credit lines that are totaled by the liberal or euro with a margin is some credit line between 3.5 and 5%. That is so, but when we add to that what that priority contractor, who gets on the basis of the conditions, which this Parliament adopts, we add to that 15 to 18%, only then do we see which is the credit line. What happens in practice in realising that line? It will welcome us to these agreements, which we will likely ratify in a few days, and we need to point out today. They're not credit lines with, say, 5%, they're credit lines that cross 20%. That's extremely unfavourable. It's a protraction contract. These are contracts in which the Republic of Serbia comes in a debt crisis. It is not only the financial and legal system of the Republic of Serbia that is being broken. Even more devastating are the consequences of fictitious public procurement, when an advance knows who needs to get it. That you, Mrs Dragutinović, know very well. There is no application of the Public Procurement Act, we are witnesses of it. When "Alpina", "Porn" and others participate, then next to them is a business from Slovenia, which has already agreed with someone who is a monopolies and who will get the job, and some company from Croatia. Now we see these international tenders that have been held in the last year – in 80% there have been such combinations. See where we fall? We fall here? We pay the most expensive loans in one hidden sense. That's what the builders know, and that's what the builders warn about. However, the current government is silent about all this. Why don't you shut up? Because she's forced to take loans under those conditions. It is only because we do not turn east on the free financial market – we include both Russian, Chinese, and Indian, and Ukrainian banks and all other banks that, and Japanese banks, want to enter this market. However, the monopoly on the financial market in the Republic of Serbia is held by Western European banks, which sell us capital, Mrs Dragutinovic, not by 4.5%-5%, as you stand here in parliament, but by more than 20% under these conditions. Let me just point to another circumstance that is very harmful, which is that one company that comes from abroad, which here forms a domestic company that is the bearer of certain businesses, transfers millions of euros over its accounts within a month. Who's working on these jobs? People from the government, who participated and lobbyed for certain financial and credit lines, work. Who else is involved? The selected company, construction companies that are lobbying related to certain structures from the government, participate. Everyone else doesn't have a job. That's why we have a devastating situation in construction today. Data from the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Builders say – that the construction was low last year, not what you showed in government data and individual ministries, dropped by 19.9%, but said more than 30%; in the building industry 50%, 70%. Some construction material producers closed down their enterprises in the fifth and sixth months, filled with warehouses with building materials, had no one to sell it to. You ended up bringing it down to about 19.9%, and that's where you satisfied a certain form. The builders do not work – so will these agreements. This is where the Serbian economy won't work. They'll be working again. Some companies from nearby. She'll pick up the Kajmak, and our employees will end up at the employment bureau. Mrs Dragutinović, if you have any other information, I would like you to face them, but not me, but builders who are not working today, who are asking for help, who are looking for work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39047	The word is from Ambassador Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again, the National Assembly is discussing a set of laws with 14 points joined into one, which, at first sight and more careful analysis, have little to do with each other, but the majority as a force of God does not pray – everything is possible and justified, under the pretext of democracy, and let Serbian citizens today, after ten years of various DOS governments and the duration of this new government, wonder where we are today and how we live? I will base my presentation, because of the inability to explain all the points, on two points -- a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on economic co-operation and a bill confirming the Agreement between Serbia and Turkey on co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects. In this first law on economic co-operation, the government calls for traditionally good friendly ties between Serbia and Turkey, so I would like you to explain to me - and what are the traditionally good relationships, relations, relations between us? Is this -- that Turkey is one of the first countries to recognise Kosovo's illegal independence? Or maybe because the Turkish state, which has been back years, has not treated us correctly or in international economic organisations, has been making continuous demands to lower customs rates that we have protected our goods? Or perhaps because, thanks to the Free Trade Agreement, we have found ourselves in a position to further bury our market with foreign goods and because Serbia, after 620 years of the Kosovo Battle, has come back to some kind of economic vassal status? Here, Madam Minister, perhaps it is an opportunity and perhaps you, with proper documentation, will be able to convince me of traditional friendly ties with Turkey. In your own reasons for the adoption of this law, you recognise the catastrophic bilateral economic co-operation in the classical trade, with unfavourable import-export movements between 2001 and 2008, or expressed deficits on our part, in 2008 alone of the entire $391 million. In January-August 2009, the trend in Serbian exports decreased by 30% compared to last year. Unlike previous years, there was a 44% drop in imports from Turkey, but not because the Turks could not produce goods, but because in Serbia there is no longer anyone to buy it because of the increasing purchasing power and poor living standards of our citizens. The very fact that Serbia's exports of agricultural products to Turkey range from 5% to 8% and imports from Turkey from between 9% and 15% are devastating for both our country and our peasants. It seems amazing that citizens of Serbia from Turkey are eating leniency, whose production does not require much investment, or any special treatment in terms of agrotechnical measures and plant protection preparations, or beans from Kyrgyzstan, and fish from BiH, pork from Italy and Hungary -- but that is the reality today in Serbia. The Serbian peasant has no state support, no favourable subsidies or loans. Then, in the end, the state is rounding up the robbery of our farmer, allowing its monopolies to form the price of ransoms for which our raspberries, cherries, plums and apples were sold into debauchery or, in protest, threw themselves in the streets. You further say in your explanation that the presence of Turkish businessmen on the Republika Srpska market is still not enough, and we are justifiably wondering what is the presence of our businessmen on the Turkish market? I fully understand the Turkish state, which has seen the importance of placing its products on our market and launched an initiative to sign this agreement on economic co-operation. And you in the agreement admit that's what the Turks started. Of course they should have done it. They saw people benefiting their country, for their citizens and headed for action and profit. On the other hand, we are here to do them a favor, which is our interest and benefit for the economy, economy and citizens, I'm afraid it will remain unclear as long as we are economically in agriculture, the conditory and textile industry in which the Turks are, whether we want to admit it or not, far ahead of us, and also in the production of goods of wide-ranging consumption, with which Turkey participates in exports to us from over 55%. Even this analysis of a few minutes points to our poor economic balance with Turkey, but even if it were the most detailed, it probably would not mean anything to our government and this agreement would be in front of us again. Furthermore, in Article 3 of this proposal, you shall provide for the establishment of a Joint Committee on Economic Co-operation, whose competences are to establish general guidelines, identify new opportunities, make proposals and make recommendations for the successful implementation and implementation of this Agreement. In one word, the committee will not do anything useful for the citizens of Serbia, will take over responsibilities from the ministry, and neither ministers nor professional services will do their job at the first level of planning. Now, I'm interested in whether, as parties that make up the government, you've already given each other a quota for the members of that committee, if we know that you've done this for all institutions, agencies, and even for the choice of judges in Serbia? When it comes to this second confirmation of an agreement with Turkey in the area of infrastructure projects, I must say that this agreement is a great and complete success, but Turkey's states, because you have gone a step further as owners in causing damage to the state of Serbia. Already in the first article of this bill you allowed nonsense to improve the co-operation between our countries in the area of infrastructure development in addition to local and regional, even at national level, and in particular the construction and reconstruction of the road infrastructure Novi Pazar – Tutin and Novi Pazar – Sjenica. In fact, the essence of the agreement is bringing Turkish investment into Serbia and hiring Turkish companies to build infrastructure facilities, which is, you can imagine, as the government further explains, of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, because, pay attention, it continues to be realised through credit under favourable conditions. To clarify, further reasoning is said that our government has agreed with the Turkish side as a priority project to build the infrastructure of Novi Pazar – Tutin and Novi Pazar – Sjenica. For the project, Turkey's Eksim Bank will allocate $30m, and the main precondition for the implementation of this project is to hire an appropriate Turkish company without a tender and to pay off loans as a state guarantee. First of all, what do we have with Turkey to negotiate what our priorities are and what are the priority projects? Secondly, the agreement is a great success for Turkey because their bank is placing a secure loan that will bring it a safe profit through the collection of interest, their businesses will, therefore, employ their production and construction operations and will export to Serbia the material needed to carry out the activities set out in this Agreement, as provided for in Article 10. Bravo for Turkey, three zeros for Turkey. To make our defeat as states and societies even bigger, you further say that the conclusion of this agreement is a clear signal to all potential investors from Turkey to invest more significantly and invest in Serbia. I'm asking you-- who's the investor here? It could and should have taken the government without Turkey to set priorities and to settle the road and other infrastructure both in the Raška area and in Serbia as a whole. In the end, Mr Dinkic is not present as a signator of this agreement, but he is not the only one responsible for signing it, but perhaps you, Madam Minister, can answer us who approved and who ordered the signing of this agreement, repeatedly harmful to the state and citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39049	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. There's 22 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39050	Good thing it's 22, but it'll be at 4:00 in the morning. I'm counting on those who killed sheep to come home, so they're gonna turn on the TV to watch. By the way, little joke aside, I think Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic said that you've reached a world record today, about 30 and something law over the day, 37 passed. Well done, that's for all the praises. We are almost competing with the Bulgarian parliament, they have adopted thousands of laws in English.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39051	Your colleague had that content, he was already talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39052	He didn't, did he? But I have to tell you again to remember. I hope you don't interpret this as encouraging that next time 60 laws per day. No, just to draw attention to you that there are really serious laws to develop parliamentary discussion, to find some measure to see what the government is actually doing, because by doing this legislative jurisdiction, we are also doing some control over the work of the government, especially in the principle of debate, where this free topic is quite broad, so it can take a little further, and some related areas. We have here really about twelve laws that almost don't have any common points. Now let me explain why they don't have common points. In the previous set, we also had one law concerning Turkey. So these three laws concerning Turkey and bilateral relations with Turkey could have been placed as one point. I'd understand that, but this is how you divided Turkey into two sets. It's not nice. It is a European and Asian part, but it's not nice. I don't see any reason to explain why this is necessary, necessary. Mrs Dragutinović, when you are in the government session, even if it should be electronic, telephone, etc., warn your government colleagues that a few years ago we lost a lot of these construction jobs on the Russian market. It's not because Putin came in, so he decided to break up with the crime, so then he broke up, etc. It was not our builders on the Russian market who acted differently than those other foreigners who worked there, but a construction power appeared on the market. Do you know what kind of building power is on the Russian market? Turkey, Mrs Dragutinovic. Now let me explain it nicely. Since Turkey is a serious state, it holds to its dignity, pride, once a great empire, it can't do that to them – someone on the side has come. No, at the head of the column are their interests: political, national, economic, cultural, etc. As a serious state, they have a mandatory military service and this mandatory military service is not six months like ours, but for years. Since they are a relatively young nation with a good rate of economic growth, they have a large amount of soldiers who don't know what to do. There's not as many leaves to gather as we used to when we were serving the army, and they have to pay for the standing army. Then they found a good formula to break through some markets and then all those soldiers to transfer as ordinary construction workers. They're much cheaper. Why? Because they have budget spending on these soldiers and they have what commercially they can do and then they lower the price and thus develop their presence in other markets. At present, Chinese companies are doing something similar in Russia, but not through the military, but in another way. So every country when it makes some agreements, whether political, economic, economic, social, financial, etc., firstly, Mrs. Kolundjia, has its own interests. You know, Hope, the task of each government is to put the interests of the state as a priority, so whatever you mean by the state: people, businesses, economies, territories, it doesn't matter. Why? Because it gave citizens the confidence to exercise power during some limited period of time. You know, I couldn't be mad at Turkey for wanting to do some kind of expansion. To put aside what their foreign minister says when he comes to Sarajevo or Belgrade, etc. We can apply what the Shooter was talking about this morning. Those epithets, it doesn't matter. But they demonstrate to fight for their interests. We now have an agreement here regarding, literally, infrastructure in some space that is local self-government or Youth regions. They're not problematic, but it's our authority that has a pathological desire to grab the money at all costs, so it doesn't matter what happens. Hope, remember, there's nothing dirtier than money. Money moves everywhere, from hand to hand, you have dirty hands and clean hands and that's why money is washed. That's why they wash. I knew one in Nis who every day, when he puts what he made in the drum, washes them, burns them, and puts them under a pillow. It's a little picturesque like this, but it's a lot of associations to something called a jargon money laundering. And now, because of the pathological desire to get to the couples, so is it under the IDA conditions, is it a loan, is it a loan, is it a grant, this power has been demonstrating to us for the past ten years that it is able to take any pill, and a pill that heals and a poison pill. I'm not mad at these strangers, they have very clear, precise, defined, self-interest, their own state and they want to place where they can do it. They're going somewhere with a donation, they're going somewhere with a gift while they're going in, when they come in a little bit, they finish the job, and it's spreading. It's perfectly normal. I wish Serbia was in that position to invest economically towards Knin, Karlobag, Ogulin, Karlovac, Virovitica, but the problem is. Here, your Miskovic goes to Ljubljana and they say there's no location for you, and he's probably a European-looking man. So he organised a meeting in Brussels two years ago, so the entire government from here went to Brussels to support him, so he says -- please, "Delta" is a regional force, "Delta" is for the EU, but does not suffer this blockade, does not suffer this border, and Todorovic has entered, and that "Pevec" has also entered, although it is now bankrupt. We've all entered our market. For what? Because the government, individuals in power, have some interest. You listened to Todorovic this morning, one came in with one bag, the other came in with two bags, the one that came in with two bags in two years 11.5 million shares. Says he was hardworking, valuable. What was he worth? With the proportion of which someone is rich in the same proportion, most poor and then the messiahs that divide cows, sheep appear, now I hear gynecologists sharing in Arangelovac. That's what you know. Why are you looking at me so weird? I haven't revealed anything new to you. That's what the whole Arangelian is talking about. The Messiah is the Messiah. So you have to take care of our interests when you put a signature somewhere. You have to pull the math out and say -- we're going into this agreement because when you draw a line here comes to us plus, that plus is that much and that's that much. You don't have it. You're just saying -- the condition for Euro-Atlantic integration is that as a goose in the fog, and over here, and over there, we've proven, we're acting according to the SAA, we're reducing the number of questions on the questionnaire, we're going to finish the job. What if it doesn't end? What will Serbia do in the EU if we drop national income here to not tell you what amount? There were various promises, $10,000, remember – just you vote for me, we make free zones down the Danube, $10,000 will be, so thousands of euros, so everyone promises. It's not what they promise, it's what they believe. That's our trouble. Now we come to these agreements with the Republic of Montenegro. So, the overseas that stabbed us in the back at the crucial moment. Now you can imagine what economic co-operation would be like. In these bilateral contracts, some small benefits are given in relation to what is standard. Foreign investment is not prohibited in this country, they are allowed. We have a law on foreign investment long ago, and we even have that law and that kind of freezing. What does that mean? At the time when foreign investment has been made, cross-sections that have been in force, this is guaranteed below, the foreign investor has the right to transfer funds, has the right to reinvest, etc. It's all nice, but there's something I get the impression that dice are changing around here. Did you hear this morning, in this story about a Balkan warrior called, as you say, Saric, it's not the main topic where he got his cocaine and where he smuggled, but who gave him citizenship. Imagine that. So, it comes from a story, not two tons and a crowded ship, but who gave citizenship, as if it mattered who gave citizenship. Zoran Zivkovic gave citizenship to Radovan Jelasic so he could be elected deputy governor. Do you remember that, I thought it was November 2000? You know, as soon as the money laundering story opened, the governor resigned. Think about what this is about. It is impossible in the payments of the Republic of Serbia, which in a significant percentage, I will not say which because I can be wrong, because capital owners in most banks are strangers, I am not surprised at that money laundering. You've legalized money laundering. When I say you, I don't mean the name or the last name, I don't even mean the regulations that apply in that area, but I mean the fact that anyone who wants to be present in organized crime must have their own people in institutions, in organs, etc. The moment you uncritically created a large number of agencies, then the state said – we don't care, you can work freely. That's our problem, that's what we're dealing with. Therefore, if you exercise authority, be power, law in hand, non-selective, objectively, unbiasedly apply to everyone. Do you see, over the past few years, only an affair has opened up after an affair: "News" -- unopened, "Luka" -- unclosed. I remind you of "Sartid." That affair isn't closed yet. I remind you of Mercedes Benz, you smiled when we talked about it. Cigarette smuggling, money laundering, building buildings, not to mention Rushetti, etc. It's got to be closed somehow. The Constitutional Court did not close, full composition. Those two judicial authorities didn't close either. Simply open the story, start something, and then go with the principle – it's important that there's a law, that we're going to go, and in the meantime we'll sort something out. Here, for three years it hasn't been taken care of either. What does that show? The worse, the better. Who better? It's not better for those people who have lost their jobs, it's not better for poor pensioners who haven't been in line for another year. It's a European standard, according to you. Everything is a European standard. Do you know that we have a Securities Commission, the question is, what's the composition? They resigned, their term of office expired. You don't propose a choice for a year, according to the law that's been violated. I'm a major opponent of any committee of the National Assembly proposing the election of a state official. Agree. You have one provision of the Constitution where it is said that the President of the Republic can propose. At least put that on, but let's know who's responsible. This - peace, peace, peace, no one's to blame. This is where you take care of the diction, use the words, whether someone's wearing makeup, whether it's made up, whether it's beautiful, whether it's not beautiful, etc., and the essence of what's said, it's not, it's not allowed in the media either. Last year you changed the Public Information Act, as you said, without affecting the way public information is done, but to prevent illegal business of the media. Since then, illegal media business has exploded, literally speaking. Why don't you apply that law? We pass 300 laws every year when each of these laws is applied 5% and that 5% selectively. If I had said in this congregation what someone said a few days ago, I'd have been in jail for three days, and you can barely say a warning. You're getting a little too tight. Why are you so thick? You need to define yourself. As for these agreements that prevent double taxation, it concerns our and foreign citizens for part of the business, as regards our citizens abroad, as far as we are concerned, so that if double taxation is avoided, there would have to be only one criterion – whether the country in question recognised an independent Kosovo or not. For what? I don't think Estonia, Latvia, matters which state it is. If this agreement were ratified, perhaps a thousand of our people would in some way be freed from the obligation to pay taxes, but we have 220 thousand expelled people with KIM and the ratification of that agreement we question everything we do before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. What message is being sent? More important are those thousands of people who work, have companies in Estonia, Latvia, etc., than all those who are expelled and are located in Serbia. That's where we warn you. It doesn't make sense. What kind of state policy is this? Here we criticise countries that have no understanding of our territorial integrity and sovereignty, and here we run with them to make an agreement and from state to state, you can count how many cases this would be. Probably 500 of our citizens and 500 of their citizens working here. Why would 500 citizens sacrifice KIM to me? You know, who's slaughtering a 700-pound ox for three kilos of liver, something's wrong with a man. It's so folk-like, you'd understand better. You've got your priorities mixed up. It's not a priority of money at all costs, let's figure it out right now, especially money at any cost, and then we don't even have control over what's going on with that money here, whether it's being spent, whether it's doing anything, whether it's being turned around multiple times, etc. That's the problem. Every year we record a fall in the physical volume of production in our country. A little bit of that energy and some favors, etc., but a real fall. Why? The number of jobs shows a fall. When the number of employees decreases, social needs rise, the state takes over. I just can't figure it out. We're in a situation, a little retaliatory, Mrs. Dejanovic of this topic, but we're in a situation where a man who's been suffering from diabetes, he's been written off. Why? He probably needs five or six thousand dinars a month for drugs only, since they're not, they say, on that list. I went to see a man yesterday. He says I'm receiving 10,000, and I'm giving five or six thousand for medicine. Cut off his leg. I guess it's people's first priority, but I guess we have to find some formula to get out of it. Run away from the organized crime that has entered all the pores of this society. This morning, it seemed to you, I was joking a little bit. Dacic was supposed to go to the Union yesterday and arrest everyone. Diana didn't have to arrest her, she had nothing to do with the ones over there, but she was there. Ten large families, businessmen, Sugar businessman, people, so what's wrong with you, I caught him in Montenegro at the airport smuggling money, bought sugars for three euros, while I was the minister I'd come with a broken leg just to look at me. And that businessman, what are you talking about? Beko 15 years ago glued excise stamps on smuggled goods. Do you know who Beko, Mr. Beko, Mr. Chume, Mr. Charic, Mr. Cane? Guys, get away from it, it's not gonna happen. There are no LDPs. Let me explain professionally to you how this Serbian mafia came into existence... (President: Time. You've got 20 seconds left. Come on, you'll see right through my fingers, you won't punish me. Here's the thing. There were sanctions, only someone could break the sanctions. He took big money, he was wanted and big money gives big criminals and they now create life in Serbia. Beat them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39053	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude a joint single search, I ask if someone who has not used their right to Article 93 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39054	I asked before, I thought it was during the debate, but your cases, I wouldn't say, when coincidences are repeated often, I would say by skillful handling of the dictionary and by turning on and off the microphone, the voice of the Prosperity Group forwards Serbia or SNS is still heard when it is not needed and not heard when it is necessary. At the end of this afternoon's work, it happened at half past six a.m., when you took a break, before you gave a break I asked you to warn you that it was really impossible to work all day and wait for a half-six break, as acceptable as it sounds to someone, was packaged in the most beautiful and diverse answers. You said-- you have the word, we're on the wire. It's not right. Then when you warn Mr Tomislav Nikolic and say the time is up, don't turn off the microphone. Then when you tell me you have a word, the transmission was actually interrupted and that's why I'm going to repeat my findings, even if there were only five of us here and at least no one was watching this transmission tonight. You are a very personal and private person to me, and I respect your function and title, and I think you are one very intelligent person. Really, honestly, that's what I'm saying. However, in the way you allow the sessions to be scheduled, it takes place, that there is no plan, I thought that there is simply no way to keep things under control, but my fellow MPs who spoke before me actually informed me what it was about. We seem to be fighting to win third place in how much law can be passed in one day. Only when we voted for the Devil Varosh, was there room in the lobby to plead and vote for that record. For the adoption of this record, that 37 laws should be passed in one day, nowhere has it been announced that we are fighting for that record. Here, if you don't see it as an objection, if your colleagues, Vice President Komic, your secretary general, have convinced you that this is okay, simply until you have abolished the right to discuss international agreements, I am taking the opportunity to say a word about these agreements, but also to tell you, the right to give someone, or 250 people a break at half a night, is a kind of mobbing, is a violation of basic human rights. When Mrs. Comic says we're not here under the labour contract and we don't have those rights, so it's probably not even human rights, and I'm wondering, who pays you for the effect? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They have the same salary, passed 37 or two laws during the day. So people aren't employed by the labor contract, they don't have the right to a daily vacation, and yet we're chasing some effect that's measured, not by good laws, but by the number of laws passed. Something that particularly hurts me as a man who thinks and has, today is the courage to say the most basic human remark, is the following – take only the last "Official Messenger", not the last one, number 21, and look at the citizens of Serbia as Serbia deals with. The first law to be published, let's say it's not a law, but it is a decision, arising from the Law on the National Assembly, that the Legislative Committee adopts uniform methodological rules. So when you go in there, say good day, say goodbye, close the door, that's what these methodological rules look like. These rules, which should apply from July 1st, say for example in section 31, that the words of the modern Serbian language should be used in their usual meaning, that foreign words can be used in the regulation if there are no appropriate words in Serbian and that committee has done its job most expediently and quickly published how to write laws. What about the rules governing the report on the work of the State Auditing Institution? What about the mention of the Securities Commission and its membership? What about the governor's choice? What about the change of others, not the cavity, but the huge slaughters in which the Assembly Rules of Procedure are located, not in a formal sense, but in the essential sense of this Parliament's work. This is the only institution, Madam President, which is said to have brought down the reputation itself, even journalists can defend themselves at any time, and everyone else is guilty, only journalists do not say they are guilty of destroying the reputation of the journalistic profession. But you don't understand how much you contribute to the collapse of Parliament's reputation when we have 94 points of the agenda and I hold that at least I'm a medium-intelligent person, you know how much I could repeat -21 laws being discussed I know for sure. Since the international conventions 10 to the top, 94 laws will regulate the lives of Serbian citizens. I'm ashamed of it on my own behalf, but I'm ashamed of it in the name of the institution in which we work. Why is it that in this "officer" and in this agenda, this marathon session, where the word has been published, comes to the order of the government? After the Commission's education, this is about opening the Aval Tower, which member of the coalition will be represented as well as amending the Decisions on the establishment of a programme for the resolution of surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation, we have two minor changes to the conditions for abandoning people who are in education. Shameful, modest, that's not what the papers write about, and what the papers keep quiet about, and I want to talk about it, even if it's four in the morning when you're looking at it, is a decision number 846 on page 11-13. Ms. Minister, who normally deserves all my praises and is not guilty of this, has inherited these huge gaps in the budget, but now knows that I am now mentioning four decisions on the state record show with a deadline of one year and these four decisions are heavy 12 billion dinars. That's one point of two billion euros, approximately, in this course. No matter how small the interest on these records is, no matter how small the interest is to reach it, after a year, when these records arrive, it's only 2%, and it's about four and a half, as much as it is now, I don't know how much it's going to be when it's reached and discounted, because it's just published, I don't know the sales report, so the government is going to make some extra profit, if the National Bank won't print money for this interest on these records and I'm wondering-- where we're going to earn that surplus, that we're going to pay these securities off of value on the maturity of what's common, that whoever invested on it gets something. Let's say it's just one percent or two percent, on these billions and 200, I'm not sure that these several international agreements include a profit that should be made to pay off these, for example, liabilities. I'm going to stop at the official messenger and his list of these 12 billion dinar records that will arrive in a year. Can anyone tell me why Mr. Mladjan Dinkic is a signator of this agreement? No, no one will say, because it depends on the stability of the coalition. Is it because he's the Minister of Economy and Regional Development? No, it's not compatible. Is it because he used to do finance? Maybe. Is it because he deals with tourism, employment? Is it because he deals with 90% of the jobs and he says he's short of just energy, so someone realizes the insult when I say he's the minister for everything, and unfortunately, he's also a signer of this? You won't give me an answer, one lady, a responsible woman who cares about the survival of the government, but a government that's no good. The reason why Mr Dinkic is a signator of this agreement is because he has also taken over the affairs of diplomacy economically and politically. I ask – who allows it? The agreement for the conclusion of this agreement is not concluded through our embassy in Turkey at all. Private diplomacy, at the disposal of Mladjan Dinkic, is conducted through private friends. Ask him at the government and he'll tell you. It is a public secret in Turkey, that one of the private friends has allowed the conclusion of this agreement and that none of you have participated, although it says here that it was done by your authority. This finance man, who usurped the rights of economic diplomacy, that people who had never dealt with this job, who promised us income, had to provide us with one projection of how much this would benefit, even as a budget for the plan never fit, or damage to the import position of the Serbian state. Let's take the pandan story of Ikea coming to this country. We always have the usual story. Those who can't wait for some mega-large store where better quality goods will be sold sleazy red carpet, assign land to someone here who will sell goods that are imported and citizens trying to make unskilled or delay their concerns by not telling them how much currency, in fact, will go from this country to what's called import goods. Can anyone tell us that these roads, which will be built with traditional friends, I really think of them as traditional friends, and a country that counts on long paths, like those who count on them to be born and invest in their development, and Turkey has founded its strength on this large number of young people, who know that they are trading and who haven't built towers of gold, who haven't built huge Chinese walls, like our traditional friend, the land of China, but have built towers of stone that are only smooth and shiny over time and no one wants to take any stone from that country? People who know that they're building bridges and who knew that they've been in this country for 500 years, and that they don't have any blank accounts with us again, know that this time it's the way they're going to trade. Will this be the way Serbia will make money? It is Serbia's concern, because development does not happen on its own and payments are not melting and going down the drain of foreign exchanges in itself, but by making arrangements on which the state needs to calculate well what its business is, what its profits are and installing some clauses, where with what's called the red carpet, there are probably some positive effects. What Mr Dinkic did by selling the factory to Koreans in Raca cannot be called such a job. He sold for three million euros, the state should invest four and a half million euros for the newly-opened jobs and a small child knows to calculate minus four and a half plus three is minus 1.5 million. We don't see a receipt like that around here. Who's going to worry about that, if he doesn't care who signed this agreement, and who claims that finance understands and who claims that he has the interest of Serbian citizens in the first place? I really admire that you are as a responsible person in a position to sit with us until the last moment when Parliament is working and to defend other people's ideas which, I'm sure, you yourself know they have good sides, and you must not look bad. It's terrible, if we're still right, they haven't lifted our debate, we can ask how much this country's pay- balance is one time. Not what it says in the end – no special funding is needed, no. I ask – is the trade going this way going to be a new outflow of foreign exchanges or is something going to be able to be brought into this country as a production investment, because on this ground, all analysts agree, the drama of this country is taking place? The country's drama is a low foreign reserve position, the country's drama is a lack of production and the country's drama is that some think it's essential to create conditions for consumption. I hear you're making proposals on tax cuts, and that's what every well-intentioned man and economist professional will support, counting on a grey zone to be reduced and a lot of them will stop wanting to deprive the salary tax. If even the base of the untaxed rises, it will be even better. The consumption should be destimulated. I'm not going to pretend that I was saying that the VAT will be increased or that it's already been lifted. It doesn't matter which one of us is individually right. They must be right, citizens of Serbia, with a better life. But does it help you, Madam Minister, those who advocate to come here just megashops where spending is financed? I don't think they're helping you. Those who don't count on what effects these projects will have don't help at all. The development of a country must be planned. It must be managed and managed by people who do not count on the election cycle, who do not count on the voter rating, how much their party's rating grows, those who delay the election and run a daily election campaign. The development, citizens and standard of life is a serious thing, and employment, as the goal I'm talking about, but I'll repeat, whoever's sicker than that, that's the basic goal of the memorandum, monetary policy, government policy and its policy agreement with monetary policy. Cash loans for consumption, you know perfectly well, like everyone else, are not a way to get this country out of the crisis, because cash loans are new consumption, and a second-year economy student knows that in that second-year iteration, in the second step, a multiplier or a drop in foreign exchange reserves, because for production and domestic goods it is necessary to introduce raw materials, or growth of course. Why did you let them promote it like getting out of a crisis? What is terrible is that such projects and too little care is taken of by our economic system, which without domestic banks, without responsible monetary policy, which takes care of the manufacturing sector rather than just the financial sector, cannot survive permanently. Please, we adopted the Budgetary System Act, it said - the effects of these laws must be calculated and delivered to the Government. When I asked the amendment for these effects to be delivered to the MPs, you said it was understood. There's no explanation for them either. I'm not asking why I'm a pettyr, I'm asking because these effects depend on the quality of our lives. I will end with your remarks, Madam President, I truly appreciate you both as a man and as a woman, but keep in mind, however high each of us may be, that one day, like Natasa Micic, he will sit in the parliamentary benches if he continues to deal with politics. I'm not making any comparison, but no one's power lasts so long that they don't need to take care of each and every one of us individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39055	Mrs Tabakovic, I thank you for your assessment of my intellectual abilities, I assume that you have gained an impression of me based on my behaviour here in parliament, and on the other hand, you have referred a lot of criticism to the decisions of this assembly, because you are criticising the agenda that I propose, and the Assembly is declaring it, the number of laws passed, government support etc. But of course, if it doesn't turn into our dialogue, I have a duty to say to the citizens of Serbia that one such criticism actually means criticism to the citizens of Serbia because they have defined who will make the majority here and who in some way will be more responsible than those who have the right to expect that their responsibility will one day come in terms of those domains and segments, and in accordance with the trust that citizens give them. In accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, and in Article 53 of Article 10, which provided for the procedure for the adoption of uniform methodological rules for the making of rules, the Unique Methodological Rules were also published in the "Official List", which you initially spoke of. This act lays down unique methodological rules for the establishment of regulations adopted by the National Assembly. This act concerns the amendment of laws, decisions, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and are accordingly applied to other general acts adopted by the National Assembly. It will come into force on 1 July 2010. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I'll give you my word, let me just, since you've made so many remarks on how to conduct the session, I have to tell you that everything that's been going on today, regardless of what I've done today in the decisions about the time of the break, that was absolutely in line with the Rules of Procedure, otherwise I would certainly react. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39056	I'm really sorry you had to go through this, but in your explanation that I didn't ask for anything else, and you didn't say anything new, even when it came into effect. I said we're dealing with less important things than what's important. You can't argue with me the right to express my opinion. It's really inappropriate for you to repeat everything I said, parts of who brought it, when it comes into force, etc. The essence of our work isn't even a number of laws, it's my position, but one thing I have to tell you, the citizens voted for all of us, but they didn't decide on a coalition that formed the majority. Let's not hide behind citizens just when it suits us. The coalition and most could have been made by another group of parties. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39057	If she could, she probably would have. She couldn't. Mrs Dragutinovic wants to speak to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39058	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the debate has ended in detail on this package of laws, 14 of them. Although there were 14 laws that I was supposed to defend here, it seems to me, that is, I am sure that the most discussions have sparked two draft laws – a bill confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey and a proposal for a law confirming an agreement on co-operation in the area of infrastructure or infrastructure projects between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. It seems to me that when you have a choice to have an agreement or you don't, it's always better to have an agreement. Also, if we were a little unbiased sometimes, so look at what it says clearly and what areas are priority, you would find it very easy to find that there are areas of co-operation where Turkey definitely has the advantage and that Turkey will, for example, export goods to Serbia and we will import. But there are also areas where Serbia has the advantage, and I would not underestimate the possibility of a chemical industry, black metallurgy, production of glass, nutrition, agrarians, when it comes to exporting Serbian products. Also, one of the MPs tried to get in touch, which I couldn't understand, the recognition of an independent Kosovo and the law on confirming a double tax avoidance contract. Indeed, the laws on the confirmation of double taxation contracts have nothing to do with the fairness and efficiency of the tax system. So, the same dinar tax only once. It's really the meaning of these laws. Finally, this, however, in certain discussions, was more of a debate on laws that are not on the agenda, I'm not saying that it will not be, I'm not saying that it won't be soon, it's turned a little into a debate on tax reform, and that one MP or speaker could agree on almost anything or agree with me, we could discuss it, I really couldn't accept the fact that one of the MPs said that VAT growth was embedded in the 2010 budget. That's just not true. As I could not agree with the fact that the proposed reforms I have announced or discussed in the government, and I would personally like to see them on the agenda of parliament, that is only an excuse to increase VAT rates. In one agreement, the tax system cannot solve the problem of unemployment. That's true, but it's also true that the tax system can help. If you have a higher or lower fiscal burden, the economy is certainly more competitive where the fiscal burden is less than the one in which the fiscal burden is higher. However, as we all know together, but I want to point out, the tax system is important, but it's not the only one. Also, it's very important how competitive our workforce is. So our workforce can't have a growth greater than productivity growth. We have to agree to that. Competitiveness is an important and good structure, a good judicial system is important for competitiveness, effective, contract implementation. Of course, all this together can lead to a decline in the number of unemployed, not just the tax system. Anyway, thank you for your discussion, thank you for asking for my final word, despite my confidence in fatigue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-15-0.u39059	Madam Minister, allow me to thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for your participation in the work today which has been exhausting, but very constructive I am concluding a joint single search. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. We're gonna have to do it again. Something's wrong with the system. We'll have to do it again, please. Here, from now on. At this point, it's 83. Mr. Arsenovic is expecting a card, just to wait. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it has been found that there are 85 MPs in the hall, and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending meetings: Aleksandra Jankovic, Mladen Grujic, Balint Pastor and Riza Halimi. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Oliver Dulic, the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning and Milutin Mrkonjic, I invited the Minister of Infrastructure to attend: Jelena Cvetković and Aleksandar Vesic, Assistant Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Milorad Ilic, Dragan Jovanovic, Dejan Lasica and Pavle Galić, Assistant Minister of Infrastructure, Milan Dacic, Director of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute and Periša Šundurić of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute. Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary. We move on to a joint single search of the 63-79th agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE COURT OF SARADY DOCUMENTS IN THE TERMINATION OF THE LIFE CENTRAL AND COMMUNICATION CONCERNING THE DECISION OF THE National Assembly to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the law on the agenda under points 63 to 79 and before the opening of a joint single search reminds me that, pursuant to Article 152(3), Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: Parliamentarian Jasmina Milosevic, the SPS-JS Group of MPs; Parliament MP Milan Avramovic, the SRS Parliamentary Group; Article 152, paragraph 3 and Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Regional Centre for the Environment for Central and Eastern Europe on the Legal Status of the Regional Centre for the Environment in the Republic of Serbia; – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Co-operation between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Centre for the Intermediate Weather Forecasts (ECSPV); – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Strategic Impact Assessment on the Environment by the Convention on the Impact on the Environment in the Transboundary Context; – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on Civil Responsibility for the damage to Environmental Impact on the Environment of the Environment; – Proposal for a Law on the Control of Harmiculous Systems on Ships on Ships; – Proposal for the Conventions of the International Convention of 19th year 1999 on the 19th year 1999 on the implementation of the 19th of the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention of the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Law on the Laws of 19th of 19th year 1999. and the Convention on International Railway Transport (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 in a version based on the Protocol on Amendments of 3 June 1999; – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Border Control in Railway Traffic; – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the International Transport of Dangerous Freight in Social Traffic (ADR 2007); – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Freight on the Internal Waterways (ADN); – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Changes of the Convention on Changes and Supplements to the Convention on the Control of Laws of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia; the Treaty on the Transport of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia with the Treaty on the Republic of Croatia; the Treaty on the Law on the Transport of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union with the European Union – the European Union – the Treaty on the Treaty on the Transport of the European Union of the Republic of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union and the Republic of the Republic of Croatia; Does the representatives of the promoter, or does Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Transport and Communications Committee, MP Velimir Ilic, want a word? (Not here) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) Mrs Jasmina Milosevic. Here you go.
