ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44670	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 106 Members of the Parliament are present. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs of Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and Mr Esad Djudjevic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, President of the Assembly, on the search in detail of the 4th item of the agenda, the draft air traffic law, in addition to the representatives of Proposor Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister for Infrastructure, has called for the sittings to be attended by Professor Milutin Mrkonjic. Slavoljub Vukicevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Miodrag Miljkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Pavle Galić, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure, Vanja Škobić, Secretary of the Aviation Control Agency and Nebojsa Starcevic, Director of the Directorate for Civil Aviation. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE LAW OF THE VAZDUČA SAOBRAČA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the law by the MPs: Gordana Rajkov, Siniša Stamenković, together Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojević and Zlata Djerić, Milan Avramović, Nikola Savić, Ljubiša Petković, Tomislav Ljubenović, Radica Joljić, Dužanović, Dužan Marić, Vjerica Rade, Mila Žutić, Radiša Ilić, Dragan Stević, Sladan Mijavić, Boraža Pović, Možan Žažanović, Mirović, Žažaža Žažažaža Žaža Žažaža Žažaža Žažaž, Mira Žaž, Mira Žaža Žažakić, Mira Žilj, Drag, Drag, Drag, Ža Žilj, Žilj, Ža Ža Žilj, Žažović and Žilj, Žilj, Mražović, Žažažažović, Žažkić and Žažović, Žažak, Žažović, Žažažažak and Žažak, Žažk, Žažak, Žažak and Žižak, Žiž, Žižk and Žiž, Žižk, Žilj, Mr. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee on the examination of the Government's amendments. Since the National Assembly carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 158. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has first Mr. Zoran Babic, so Mr. Sinisa Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the proposed SNS amendment is better defined by the subject of the regulation of this law than the text of the proposal which is unclear and does not cover all the issues which are governed by this law. Such a bad definition of the content of the law, as well as many other provisions of this proposal, in my opinion, shows that this is a fast-prepared law that is more for single use, so I am sure that in this regular autumn session we will have the opportunity to discuss both amendments and additions to this very law. The fact also proves that the government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted 42 amendments to its own draft laws that are significantly changing nearly a fifth of the members of this proposal. It's like when an architect changes the plan of the house when the house is already finished or when you, Mr. Minister, open a bridge to traffic, then you find that the pillars can't withstand traffic loads. The reasons for the adoption of the law by an urgent procedure to comply with European rules are the least incorrect. These international regulations you've been calling for for decades, and the law had to be passed seven years ago when it ceased to exist. The real reason for the haste, which you were skillfully trying to conceal, is the fact that the Constitutional Court found, by its decision of 28 May this year, that the decisions on the establishment of the Civil Aviation Directorate were unconstitutional and illegal. In order to speed up the final decision, the government referred the proposal to adoption by an urgent procedure. This way, until further notice, you want to enable the continuation of the uncontrollable spending of hundreds of millions of euros charged for flying Serbia's territories, and that money, as I said, is being measured in hundreds of millions of euros, controls the party's top parties in power run by the Civil Aviation Directorate and the Flight Control Agency. Over the past seven years, more than half a billion euros have been illegally spent illegally on behalf of Serbia for the use of airspace, but that money has never been the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Instead of making up for that money, among other things, the damage from the city when the anti-urban defence cannot work because of the overfly or for the purchase of anti-building missiles, all the money has disappeared in a Volcheban way, and the damaged people, my neighbors, the locals of Ročević, Vrdil, Bukovica near the Kings or peasants from the Valjev area, who had great damages on June 19th and 20th of this year, have been left without crops, and without compensation and without resistance for this year. Unfortunately, some ministers as members of the Board of Directors, who knew all along that the work of the Directorate was illegal, participated directly in this law. It didn't bother them to receive millions in compensation for just a few sessions a year. With this proposal, you are trying to enable the same ministers to continue their functions in the board of directors. We pointed to these anomalies on several occasions. However, both the Directorates and individual ministers are false explanations that it is money allegedly provided by Eurocontrol for the financing of the Directorates and the Aviation Control Agency itself, and that Serbia has no right to decide on that. Imagine, the funds achieved by Serbia's overfly, and the Republic of Serbia has no right to decide on these funds. That's why I urge you once again to accept the SNS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44672	Two-and-a-half minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is Mr. Sinisha Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, in the principle debate on the draft air traffic law, we have announced that a number of opposing opinions will appear in the details of the amendments on a number of technical solutions from this important, we would say, professional law. Over three hundred amendments point to all the seriousness and great responsibility of all respected fellow MPs, who have submitted to this law a large number of, indeed, quality amendments, which aim to improve and technical good equipment this so important law, which regulates a very responsible, very complex, science and high technology-based area, such as air traffic. The PUPS Group has defined that it has the maximum support for all technological and technical and professional amendments, which obliges the legislator to apply the solutions to the safe organisation and flight control, the implementation of air traffic and the maximum correctness of the basic assets of aircraft, techniques and technology in air traffic, with the most important condition, and this is a human factor. However, all high-tech and technology only makes sense if the law governs all necessary organisational, material, technical and status conditions and circumstances for the most important factor in air traffic. Human factor. As for amendments that improve technical solutions and issues of air traffic organisation, we tend to support all solutions that are responsible and serious, technically well-founded and with global regulations, put this law in its place. We are committed to bringing the provisions of Article 3 into line in points 3, 4, 5, 6), 13), 22) and 25) because the obligations laid down in the regulations, conventions and Directives of the European Aviation Safety Agency, which cannot be aproximate, are only executive and applicable. We believe that the concepts of civil and air traffic must be introduced in all the provisions of this law, in order for Article 5(2) to have a competent meaning in the definition of state aircraft, including military aircraft, aircraft of internal affairs bodies, customs aircraft, etc. We agree and support that the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia is urgently introduced into legal status by this law and that it is legally and technically defined in all its status features, in all its responsibilities and in all our responsibilities. We fully support all amendments to the political groups submitted in order to create a comprehensive and responsible national civil aviation security programme, which is already under attack and has not yet been developed, which rightly establishes the principles, rules and activities for achieving and improving the high level of security in Serbia's civil aviation, and in line with the recommended practice and standards of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. There may be concerns with certain groups that the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia has been given too soon and too much of a right in a trusted job to implement a national security programme in civil aviation, not a competent ministry or government. However, we believe that this independent regulatory body, in cooperation with state authorities and the International Civil Aviation Organisation, will carry out all his entrusted tasks. We believe that the Directorate must become a reliable institution in which data will be collected on all events related to air traffic, as well as on the protection of all traffic participants, both civil and this second, official or military. The government of Serbia, i.e. the state retains all its prerogatives, and this law confirms status responsibilities for the use of airspace above the country, and thus commits itself to prescribing the concept of flexible, economic and sustainable development of airspace. These rules of flexible air traffic use are common rules and constitute an international obligation, which our country assumes by confirming a multilateral agreement on the establishment of a common European aviation area in Article 2 of Protocol 6, which is otherwise an integral part of this law. In the debate in principle, we have advocated the special implementation of the definition of forbidden zones in the sky in our country's airspace. We support the introduction of a good explanation and a rationally defined forbidden zone, a conditioned zone and a dangerous zone in the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, and in this direction the definition of the Ministry is quite fine. A huge number of amendments to technical issues have been submitted to the draft air traffic law. We support the largest number of these amendments because they are justified, technically justified, legally possible and aimed at correcting the essential solutions in the law. However, in its amendments, the PUPS Group has put the focus of activity on human factors and responsibilities in carrying out air traffic. We fully support the efforts of the Association of Cabin and Flight Staff of Serbia and their union, as well as other political groups. It is inappropriate for cabin and flight personnel to be status and unprofessionally separated in the same aircraft, both in their authority and in the powers which violate European standards in professional engagement and the status of air traffic participants. Note, this is not just about the questions of flight and cabin personnel, this is about not recognising the right of flight attendants, or flight attendants, also as responsible, present and legally protected crews of aircraft, to be bound and have their rights, duties and authority in aircraft. We remind the MPs, as well as you, Mr. Minister, as well as your associates of not only one part of the duties, duties and responsibilities of this staff, which must be publicly highlighted, which must receive flight staff status, and this: cabin staff in advance of flight on the platform before the arrival of the passengers shall carry out crew, equipment, fire, oxygen and evacuation, as well as all airway exit checks and technical correctness of the passenger cabin. Flight attendants are carrying out security controls before and after the passengers enter the passenger cabin. The one when the passengers enter the plane prepares for flight and introduces themselves to emergency exits and security procedures. Flight personnel are standing by and must act immediately in any situation in the aircraft, especially around flight and landing. After closing the cockpit during the flight, cabin staff shall assume all responsibility for passenger and passenger cabin safety at all stages of the flight. This must be taken into account when determining their status. In possible emergency situations, such as decompression, technical failures in the cabin, fire or, not God, a terrorist act, these personnel are being carried out and must be compromised to carry out all prescribed procedures in order to ensure the greatest possible protection of passengers, the protection of aircraft, the protection of crews and goods. An operational manual shall impose an obligation on staff from the passenger cabin that, in the event of a cabin member's incapacitation, his place shall be taken by a flight attendant or a flight attendant. Mr. Minister, please consider these facts and accept them as an explanation for amendments to Article 171(1) and Article 174. Proposal for air traffic laws and for you to accept them. According to the information we just received during the session, this was accepted by the Air Traffic Committee, which I thank you publicly on behalf of the Association of Flight Staff. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44674	Thank you, Mr. Stamenkovic. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the subject, I have remained in charge of the debate in principle, to clarify some things for the sake of the citizens of Serbia before the one who brought it up. Namely, I presented the official data of the Tax Administration, where one flight controller, as presented, earned 246 million in 2009. I was honored that someone signed it as a flight controller. I'm looking as a MP and as an SRS MP, we're asking to determine who this man is and, if legally possible, to be revealed, because this, my people, is a genius. He makes 20 million and 250 thousand a month, or 675 thousand a day. If that man is so capable, right now that we're replacing Mirko Cvetkovic and him as Prime Minister, because when he can make this much for himself, we can certainly do a lot more for the state. So much for that. I kind of know who it's about. The SRS will insist on this, to reveal the name of this genius. The second thing, because I failed to finish, refers to the abolition of the transport company that was first registered as "Er Sofia" and then when Bulgaria entered the NATO Pact, the ban on the operation of the company was then registered with us "United International Airlines". In order to eliminate the registration of the company immediately afterwards, the Directorate sees clearly and unequivocally that cargo centres in the heart of Europe are formed in these rich countries, not because there is yet to be developed there, etc., but because of the enormous resources involved. The second or first category is that Russian technique should be removed from Europe, as this company and many other aircraft companies engaged in cargo flights, i.e. transport, all of which had Russian aircraft, transport planes, have been abolished. One more thing, in order not to remain unsaid, someone mentioned functional blocks, there are them in the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for your sake and for the sake of the public, and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I would like to explain the kind of blocks that are now functioning. They're in the mood for suggestions. None of them are still working, but they're in the mood for proposals to work it out. The first functional block, Central Ukraine Air Traffic, serves the central European air traffic service is a group of former Austro-Hungarian states, part of Italy. That would be one block, of course, without the Duke. Italy has accepted to leave the northern part to them, but that's why it gets all the way down to Brindisi and this whole section, including Serbia. In this case, there would be no regional flight control centre in Serbia. The second bloc, which is also in circulation, covers the entire space of the former SFRY, without Slovenia, but with Bulgaria and the centre would be in Sofia, so there is no regional centre in Serbia again. The third bloc, where there is a regional centre in Serbia, envisions Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania and KIM. The centre would be in Belgrade. However, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and citizens of Serbia, if we know that 52% or 53% of flight controllers are Albanians in Macedonia, if we know that this is where Albania enters, if we know that this is where Kosovo, which is taken from us and is likely to be kidnapped by then, and if we know that it is the entrance of Montenegro, which is normally part of the regional flight control centre or the current flight agency, we will be in a situation where we have an Albanian from Albania, one Albanian from Kosovo, one Albanian from Macedonia and probably one Albanian from Montenegro, and we will have a Serb in flight control. What does that mean? Very simply, it will be based in Belgrade, Albanians will decide on spending funds and all resources will go where they decide. That representative of ours, even if I don't know who, even if Einstein does, will always be too loud. I've been using MPs' time. I'll say one more thing later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44676	Six minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. The First Amendment was also submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Here you go, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the objective of this amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS, is to more precisely define the terminology of safe and secure, relating to the conditions of airspace and traffic in the Republic of Serbia. To ensure security or to ensure maximum full power, I added a text that reads: after the word "security", the point is deleted and the words "all necessary technical and other means" are added. In this way, I tried to define the terms more precisely safely and securely, because the bill failed to conclude either us or you and how and how air traffic was provided. Certainly, the aim of this amendment is to improve the bill itself, not to write the very text of the law. That's why the rejection of this amendment puts one conclusion on everyone's mind, which is that we don't want them to have 100% safety in air traffic. What my will and desire was to insert all necessary techniques and other means of using and providing safe airspace, however, the government did not go into contact. What is not surprising to me is that the government gives an explanation saying that the means that this objective is achieved are least technical, so there is no basis to state in that article the bill, which speaks more than of the delusion of who wrote the answers to these amendments. So I need to remind you that technology is everything, equipment is one of the basic segments, 90% air traffic control that serves safety. If we don't use the technique, then the safety of the manual nature or any of the others won't help us much. Therefore, the non-acceptance of this amendment is not clear, in particular as it relates to air personnel, an investigation into the security of air crashes, air traffic violations, etc. I think you still have the opportunity to change your mind and adopt this amendment so that security and the bill itself can be more precise and precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44678	20 seconds of MP time was used. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The air traffic law proposal, and I must say, I have submitted this amendment for two reasons. One reason is that in a different way, civil and military aircraft should be seen, because flights are gradually different in their own essence, and I felt that it was necessary to look at each other in different ways. That's one reason. The second reason is that I asked my amendment to define some concepts in a better and more precise way. In this proposal, the law stands – while aircraft are on RS territory. While they are in RS territory can be interpreted literally while they are ground on RS territory, it means while they are on runways, airports, and with my amendment I asked that these words, while on RS territory, be replaced by words – while they are in the RS airspace, because the plane is only a plane then while in the airspace, and when it is ground at the airport, it has no function at all. The government, however, answers in its explanation in one way to me in a truly incomprehensible way. First of all, I believe that whoever was considering these amendments on behalf of the Government did not understand the essence of this amendment, because I am responsible for something quite different from what I was looking for. I would therefore ask once more to consider this amendment, to adopt and thus improve the text of the draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44680	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 3. A draft air traffic law. In fact, the essence of this amendment is that I asked for more precise and comprehensive terms to be defined. In this particular case, it is the concept of aircraft. The law defines the concept of aircraft, I will read, define: “Airplane is any crewing device that flies or is held in the atmosphere due to an air reaction, except for an air reaction that is reflected from the surface of the earth.” I have to admit, I'm a technical person, and these things aren't exactly unknown to me, but I've never met in my practice the concept of air-reaction that's reflected from the surface of the earth. I'd like someone to explain to me what's meant and what's meant. Again in the government's explanation, I'm told that this is the thing that was taken over from some Chicago convention somewhere in 1944, etc. I can believe that's the way it is. However, it is not the first time in many laws that things are taken over and translated from foreign languages, mostly from English, are translated in one wrong way, and only now I have seen, in an explanation that came just before the beginning of this session, that this was taken over from the Chicago Convention. I believe that in one bad way it's translated, because as it stands, no one can dissipate it, and it doesn't make any sense. In addition to my understanding of certain technical matters, I asked for the help of linguists and they were not clear, so I would like to appeal again to see this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44682	A 15-second parliamentary group has been used. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Ljubenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the objective of the amendments I have submitted is to improve the bill. This amendment to Article 3, as well as other amendments to the SRS parliamentary club, is a contribution we want to make to improve this law. Our MPs' club took into account that from a legal point of view this bill was badly done. Article 3 is the wording and logically contains all the terms used in this law. However, one-third of the members of the law have been made to re-explan the whole article or the first and second attitude, not norm as it should otherwise be. We have proposed amendments to Article 3 to unite and explain all the terms used in the law. On the other hand, we have suggested that these terms be deleted from those members where they are in the bill so that there is no duplication. What is left in those members, from which definitions of concepts are deleted and translated into Article 3, are legal norms that belong. Thus, this amendment, which was submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary club, was specified to add a new point 2a after point 2a, defining the meaning of the aircraft staff's expression. Otherwise, in the draft law, this definition is given in Article 8, which refers to air personnel, and in Article 170. The rest of what makes legal standards in other members of this chapter remains in place, while the concept of air personnel has been transferred to the wording. These amendments to the SRS parliamentary club should have been accepted, although they are of a technical nature. You'd get a far better text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44684	It's been used 15 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable President, the respected citizens of Serbia, it is interesting that we have turned our attention, namely that the president of our parliamentary group has turned his attention, as former resolution minister, to the problems that come with this law. The NS Parliamentary Group submitted mainly amendments that are identical to or very similar to the amendments submitted by the Government, because we knew this issue and we know that the Air Traffic Law proposal existed in the Resent Ministry, done, in line with all European rules and principles, and then because of some short-term interests and some internal conflicts within air traffic, there was satisfaction with personal and petty interests, which make such a law bad. Big concessions are being made, the bill comes before MPs and then the government has to intervene with over 40 amendments. I'm sorry Mr. Mrkonjic is in a position to defend this position. Knowing some of his professionalism in life, I don't think it's easy for him, but this is how the government tried to reduce the damage she made in the first wave with the proposal. I'm sorry you didn't accept our amendments, because they, you saw themselves, are identical to what the government has submitted, of course, well-intentioned and professional. The amendment which we have tabled to Article 3 is precisely one of the amendments which state the reasons for the submission of this amendment and the harmonisation of the provisions of Article 3(3), (4), (5), (6), 13), 22, 23) and 25) of the air traffic law with the provisions contained in annexes to the International Civil Aviation Convention, Chicago 1944, Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council (EC) No. 216 of 20 February 2008 on the basic rules in the areas of civil aviation and the establishment of the European Aviation Safety Agency, which is abolished: European Community Council Guideline 91/670, European Community Regulation No. 1592 since 2002 and the 2004 Guidelines, as well as Directive 2003/42 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 June 2003 on the reporting of events in civil aviation. So, we had a very professional constructive amendment and we think that as such, as a proposal from the New Serbia parliamentary group, it should certainly be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44686	Forty-five seconds of Parliament time. The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44687	Dear Mr Minister, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that we in the previous government have made a good law and has been fully in line with the EU, after several meetings we have had. It is true that the air traffic companies that were involved in this law were divorced after the divorce, because everyone asked to build their interest in the law and escaped from that basic law, which was inevitable. The EU has forced the government to put it back through the amendments. It is a shame that the amendments of the New Serbia parliamentary group, which are identical to the amendments submitted by the government, mean what has been expelled from the existing law, will not be adopted, and that is not a single amendment. I'm putting it on the government's mind that it's not right for someone to make the same amendments as the government before the government, and they don't. If the government had given, for example, 10 amendments or 20 amendments and so on, then the shame could be removed from the government. But it does not accept in principle amendments that are entirely identical to the Government, and accept the Government's amendments, it is completely unclear. We didn't know which amendments the government submitted. We only completed ours from the law that was prepared for adoption. It is a very unfortunate situation, as president of the Transport and Communications Committee, I had one inconvenience to accept the government's amendment, and we reject New Serbia's amendments that are entirely, letter by letter, identical. Therefore, it took at least one, as they say about seeds, to accept, so to speak, we had a really good will. Some people really tried and worked, wrote it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, It's a single gap that was created between the position and the opposition. If something is opposition, if someone doesn't answer as an opposition, we reject everything in principle, so what happens? We're giving it the same thing, only with the other promoter, and we're adopting it the same way. I thought it was a little weird why no single amendment was adopted, and it was a turn, at least one that was adopted. My God, the government wouldn't miss anything. I expected it at least, but it doesn't matter, we were very correct, we proposed ours and made our contribution to make the law good and correct. Therefore, I hope that there will be no further problems, and when the Assembly gets a proposal from the Government to comply with EU rules, then we will not have these problems that we have today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44688	Mr. Ilic, is this the three-minute appointed president of the parliamentary group or as president of the parliamentary group? Thank you. Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44689	Just to respond to what Mr. Ilic said. I wrote this in my address. As far as I'm concerned, you have absolutely my support. It's important that the law is good. I wrote this and I'm pulling a slice out of what I'm going to read in the end. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted 46 amendments to the bill. However, I must stress that by accepting these amendments, the government also accepted 30 amendments submitted in the same text by MPs from New Serbia and the SRS. Once again to tell my friend Veli, of course the jobs that are done in this way and in the Ministry of Infrastructure are long-term. They're just continuing the activities of the previous ministries. I've never put a question mark on what was done before, but it's good to pass the law. That is why I thank the New Serbia and the SRS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44690	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44691	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, dear Minister Mrkonjic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(1). The air traffic law proposal, which I suggest is to replace the "event" with the words "air emergency". Ladies and gentlemen, today we have this air traffic bill. The term given in this proposal "event" is a general term. He can mean a lot. For example, an event within the meaning of this bill could also be the meeting of Boris Tadic with Agim Ceku at Skopje's airport. In order to avoid such interpretations, we propose to introduce in point 5 an "air emergency", which is more appropriate to that attitude. Consider yourself, the proposal is – an accident event, a serious accident and an accident, as well as any damage or malfunction of the aircraft, its equipment and any element of the air navigation system used or intended to be used for the needs of the aircraft or for the provision of air navigation services, or for the provision of air navigation assistance to the aircraft. Clearly, the words – air emergency events would be more appropriate. That's why I invite you to accept this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44692	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Tabakovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44693	In its amendments, the SNS parliamentary group proposed, as two of the most important things for the better future of the Serbian Air Force, not only this change to "air traffic" as it was given in Article 3, but above all we proposed that the directorate become a management body within the ministry. Everything else is a story derived from this fundamental legal status and that full control of the money from fees for Serbia's flying territories is taken over by the government. Those who may not be interested in the fact that the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic has said, confidential sources show up – do not touch my civil aviation directorate. One of the parties involved in the government has a special interest there. The government must survive and discuss these amendments I would call – what it is worth and how much the Serbian government costs. That's why the civil aviation directorate's story is about the cost of this government, its effects and the good part of its illegal work. Before I go any further with a concrete explanation, I'll tell you in principle - you rushed with this law. You allegedly adopted him at the government on July 29th. In 18 days, you put him on the site, and it is a matter of time of vacation whether or not he was seriously discussed, for one single reason – because of the motion of the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of the establishment of the directorate. For this reason, I read in a principle debate that went late at night, because of all the irregularities found in the establishment, because the Directorate makes its own rules, in order to avoid the embarrassment that will arise from the Constitutional Court's decision and to avoid the damage that will result, you are going out with a law that, because it is being adopted here, should legalise the situation that was found there. So, the thing is, it also comes down to money that the dedicated income and control of the sky and the money from overflight is being shifted not to the budget, but to something or something that's supposed to be called an independent regulatory body. You claim this is a worldwide experience of universally adopted practice. Such an organisation of the Air Force, as we call it, and what we propose to be the authority of the administration as part of the ministry, and that you, ministers, have jurisdiction over it, is in Slovenia, for example. Is Slovenia an example in this area of something bad, illegal, unusual, beyond European? It has directorates for all branches of traffic, including aviation, and since it is an EU member, it is absolutely doubtless that this solution follows the rules and is in line with principles, directives in the EU. The claims you made in the principle debate, that it must necessarily be established as a directorate and an independent body, literally do not stand. It is obvious that this law is written by the Directorate and the Aviation Control Agency as it fits the current leadership. This claim is also proved by 41 amendments from the government, which only formally appeared as a proposer of this law, I repeat, written in the Directorate. So he could be written, but only answer to the Directorate. In writing the proposal, this law was not involved – it has been held accountable because this law has been worked by a team of SNS experts, people who understand themselves in this matter, many people who have been damaged by the rules, regulations and actions of this directorate – no airman because he is not in the management structures of the Ministry, nor in the Directorate, and there is none in the Agency either. The current illegal and uncontrolled work of the Directorate and the Agency for the past seven years has done greater damage to the Serbian air force than any sanctions, crises and bombing combined, which has been at its lowest point for the past 50 years. Since the establishment of the Directorate and the Agency and the takeover of jurisdiction from the Ministry of Traffic in this area, and that is not too much of a word, I say - chaos, lawlessness, crime and corruption are beginning to rule. I will hand over the evidence for this to you, Mr Minister, at the end of today's debate on amendments, starting with an initiative in the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court agenda and all contributions, from Eurocontrol, European initiatives, regulations issued by the Directorate and all the alleged international agreements to which they are called. You'll get them and you'll own them. The illegal behaviour of the Directorate has made it impossible for airlines to operate in foreign ownership, in all airlines. By the time we speak, the open sky, the low cost arrival just recently and how many companies have failed to address the ministry, which has done nothing, the question is whether or not it has come to you, Mr. Mrkonjic. Faced with a harsh violation of the law, the inability to protect the rights they have, they have suspended their activity, withdrawn their capital and wiped the airships from our Serbian registry. In your ministry in some drawers you have neatly seduced and received items about what I'm talking about. To illustrate the size of the damage caused by this case, just to tell you that the capacity of these companies was more than three times the capacity of JAT. The company's activity is less known to the Serbian public because they flew almost exclusively in international traffic. The number of registered aircraft is in constant decline, as is the volume of activity, and Serbian aircraft owners have not registered their planes in Serbia for years. Ask your associates to give you that information. Against illegal acts of the Civil Aviation Directorate, there are a number of ongoing court disputes. Compensation claims, undecided but ongoing disputes, already exceed $50 million. I warn that this case will also be sued by the Republic of Serbia, as founder of the Directorate. That's why, Mr. Grouchy, we don't blame you too much. The government of the Directorate, the Agency and JAT have been running personnel from other parties for a long time, so the minister seems to me even the whole government is unable to do something about it, even though you are aware of the illegality, because taking action in the Directorate would disrupt the functioning of the Government. That's my question - what's this government worth, and how much is it worth? We do not want to discuss intricacy, it is visible from this bill, the amendments that you have given as a Government and which have changed in 41, which directly, indirectly, 70% of the essence of the law itself that is in the proposal. It is stated that before the Constitutional Court, we have already said, the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality of a number of regulations and that by 2008 the rules were passed by the Director-General of the Directorate-General. When an authorised company asked a question of his jurisdiction, in terms of constitutionality and legality, they quickly began, these gentlemen, to change the rules of the new, with the exact same content, but new titles and then put them on the Council's agenda to adopt them. Almost all of them have been replaced, and five ministers who function as members don't get to know each other, but we who read these official messengers neatly receive by a kilo or two of these replaced regulations the same content, but in order not to be subject to the assessment of constitutionality, the titles change and who brings them, and they are brought in illegally. It is important that they produced for some cost, obligations, such as leaving these foreign companies and such as huge cost fees for certain responsibilities this Directorate has. Another example is the fees to members of the Council, for which the Directorate claimed that the ministers who are members of the Council and the compensation are not paid under certain domestic rules, but that it is simply the Euro Control that is required and paid out of their resources. Did you know, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you and the police minister, the military minister, the finance minister, that the fees paid have nothing to do with Eurocontrol? You were misinformed because I once asked here a question about the amount of these fees, the way they were determined and received, and then only the police minister went public and fenced both from the means of determining that fee, even I think he refused to accept that fee, and some said they were giving it to charity. I also have a document to provide you with as evidence. The directorate then rectified himself by providing information that he misunderstood, incorrectly realized, but in the meantime he was also given a solution to be punished for failing to provide information about the director's salary, which I will not announce that the public would not experience a real odymum, it would be a general lynch if they announced the fees of directors and persons employed by the Directorate and the Agency. If you insist, I'll do it. Now we can determine from the proposal for this law that it is not true what they have claimed, because Article 241 shows, I insist that you listen to me, that the Directorate is financed from domestic funds, and the amount of compensation is determined by this law in Article 238 and that foreign organisations have no connection with this, just as they have no connection when receiving couriers, those carrying mail, past the optimal number of employees, people in that function receive a salary greater than both the President of the State and the Prime Minister in this country. Is that normal and justifiable? I can add to this that in the drawers of your associates there are complaints about the solutions of the Directorate, that there are requests for the delivery of information that are not delivered and that I do not believe that someone is burdening you with this, because they impose more important things on you, more important topics for which it is, but most of it is, and you are not personally responsible. What I can blame you for, is that you did not respond to the warnings I gave here on behalf of the SNS and that the Law on civil servants was violated, even when you were in charge of choosing your assistants and that the legal deadline for that election expired more than six months ago, for which you are directly in charge. These people have had to, received in a regular manner by the Law on Civil Service, warn you of the illegalities that rule in the Directorate, which was declared by their register from this state, charging as they imagined they could both fly over and control over this sky, and all that they do or don't do. This bill is not in line with the Constitution because of how funds are collected and how they are managed. It is not in line with EU rules, even though they assure you. I think that this law, at least it can be done, would have to be withdrawn, so that we wait for the Constitutional Court's decision that once someone in this country is responsible for unconstitution and then with professional people, and not with those who prescribe their beards, sit down and write a new law. Each individual solution and the member will be presented in a further discussion according to how much time we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44694	Thirteen minutes of Parliament time. The word is Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44695	Dear Members of Parliament, don't worry, I won't report on every amendment, I just need to say a few things to Mrs Tabakovic. Of course, what you've been saying so far about the status of those two companies, that you're absolutely right. That's exactly why we're passing the law, and we're going to get it, to tell you right now, and with the shortcomings, but we're going to bring it in. Of course you're wrong when you claim these abuses that you say are in my drawer. There is no single complaint or objection in the department's drawers about what you just said. Of course you're not telling the truth when you say that Mrs. Dragutinović, Ivica Dacic and I didn't accept and we don't even know how much compensation for working in the Directorate, and that Mr. Sutanovac gave his compensation or gave it to charity. If nothing else, you've had a chance to read it in all the media, and with our beautiful pictures. So, Ivica Dacic, Diana Dragutinović and I don't even know what the compensation is, nor do we receive it, and since the first meeting we asked for it. Of course I don't take anything from the Flying Agency either, because I'm also set up, as you say, by regulations, not by law. Of course, there are people who work, besides me, who receive compensation, and today it's their legal right. I remind you, the Agency has such a structure that there are also people from Montenegro. So, the Air Flight Agency, air traffic control agency, also has members from Montenegro and members from Serbia. Once again, I underline that I accept nothing from members of Serbia. So you're wrong about that, but well, I'm not mad. The second thing, the management of the Directorate and the Agency in relation to what you said is completely public and there are no secrets. As for wages and personal incomes, you have a list of all these people on websites, whoever wants to ask them, people will tell them what their salaries are, absolutely. Once again, let's clear up this dilemma about what it is and where these two institutions are financed from. I would remind you, since I'm many years old, that there was always an institution in Yugoslavia, then it was called the Federal Civil Aviation Authority or whatever it was called, but it's been 50 years. What you said about Slovenia, of course, is not true, the Slovenians tried what you say, but they failed, so they came back. Both the Directorate and the Agency are special organizations. So much for talking about concrete things. Just to be informed: the overall budget of the Air Flight Agency, which has about 800 workers, does not take my word for it, is somewhere around 80m euros. The total budget of the Directorate is around sevenm euros. Everything is under control and available to the public at all times. What I'm saying is, in two years of my term there, I haven't found any irregularities. As for the documents you're talking about, you're absolutely right so far, and that was the case. I don't mind if the Constitutional Court, when it makes a decision, implement it the way the Constitutional Court says, but I do mind that, in order not to be criticised again in five months from today, we don't pass the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44696	Thank you, Minister. No, you can only use the time of the parliamentary group, there's no reason for replication. [[Jorganka Tabakovic, from place: Right to replica.]] You made your point, the minister made his point, and that's the end of the story. The amendment reads in Article 3(5). The proposal – by air navigation, by words – is replaced by air traffic. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: I will use the time of the parliamentary group. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44697	By taking away my time from further discussion, you can't diminish the importance of the facts that I bring out. Now I'm going to hand it over to you, but first I'm going to show it to the public. Civil Aviation Directorate, document No. 1007107 of 22 September, signed by Deputy Director General of Civil Aviation Director Goran Jovičić, saying: "The members of the Civil Aviation Directorate Board are entitled to compensation of 450,000 dinars of half-year and 75,000 dinars per month, respectively." Until now, until September, only one member of the Council has used his right to reroute his fee for humanitarian purposes. Other members of the Council have expressed their desire to direct that money to humanitarian purposes, but they have not yet figured it out. The key was the next sentence -- at the 19th session of the DCV Council of Directorates, held in February 2010, a decision was adopted to determine the amount of compensation to members of the Council, and based on a financial plan approved by Eurocontrol. Whether you were at that session or not, I don't know, but the lack of knowledge of the law doesn't excuse a military official or an ordinary citizen, let alone one minister. So I'm telling the truth, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44698	One minute and 35 seconds. You can have your word, Mr. Minister, but I'm afraid we're talking about the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44699	It's not about the fact that there's a decision, it's about whether we take it or not. What happened before, I'm not talking. I'm saying we don't take this money and we won't take it. That's the point for me. And the decisions whether they exist or not... One more thing, I forgot to tell you where the Agency's funding came from. Of course, 95% of the funding comes from Eurocontrol, and the rest comes from domestic funds. That's right. So, once again, we don't take money.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44700	Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44701	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 paragraph 1 point 6 of the Air Traffic Act, which reads: "The forbidden zone is part of the airspace above a specific territory in which it is permanently or occasionally prohibited to fly." To make it clear to the citizens who listen, I will read that point 6 is in the draft law delivered by the Government. So point 6 says: "The forbidden zone is part of the airspace above a specific territory in which flying is prohibited". As far as this amendment is concerned, I think the Prime Minister also agrees that this amendment should be accepted in the legislative proposal, for the simple reason it is a reality and what is happening very often. It's about restricted areas where flying is forbidden, as the proposer says in the bill. As it stands in the law, it turns out that in these zones no one will ever be able to fly again, as if it were above the Bermuda Triangle. This is absolutely impossible, given that circumstances change, that sometimes extraordinary opportunities arise, let's say, in the case of some danger, war or some other, in the case of elementary accidents, emergency medical interventions, etc., when it is necessary to achieve flying in the forbidden zone. Therefore, the amendment states that the prohibited zone is part of an airspace in which it is permanently or occasionally prohibited to fly. Just because of these emergency situations, we've put in the amendment "once in a while." If the original solution offered by the Government remains, then a certain forbidden zone will never be able to cross over, no matter what. Otherwise, it would be a violation of the law. This amendment would, in fact, improve the bill's proposal, open a space for breaking the law, which it will certainly be, and in exceptional cases it is understood that it must be approved under certain conditions and by the competent authorities. However, as always, in the reasons you have given for refusing amendments, the reasons are, as usual, foreign conventions, foreign definitions, annexes, etc. If you too have seen that your original solution is not good, it can also be seen that the Government has made amendments to Article 6(3).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44702	Forty seconds of Parliament time. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44703	My amendment is purely technical. Therefore, Article 3(7) is therefore also related to Article 23. What's this about? It is that laws have their own recommendations, prescribe rights and obligations and laws threaten some penalties and some laws, such as this law in front of us, have the meaning of a term, i.e. a particular term. We just wanted because of the purity of the law to move a certain concept into a term without the members still burdening us with terms rather than leaving it exactly the way it is. The government has given its reasons – in one place it cannot, in another place it can. We think that ours is much more practical, that the concepts of certain things, of certain craftsmen stand in the meaning of the term, and that Article 23, which explains it remains with those two attitudes. We think it would be technically the right thing to do. But the government didn't accept it, and I can't influence it any more than I've tried.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44704	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44705	Point 8 of Article 3 says: "Interoperability is a series of functional, technical and operational characteristics of the system and the constituent elements of the technical air navigation systems, as well as their operational procedures, in order to ensure safe, continuous and efficient work." The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS requires that the word "low" be replaced by the word "coordination", because "low" in itself means absolutely nothing, but "coordination of the functional, technical and operational characteristics of the system" etc. It means a lot. First, I'm in line with the bill, the law is in line with this, because this is what you could say – and the law is a series of members. That's why we asked, because with him in Europe, if God does, the President of 2015-2016 said, and some of my sources say 3015, but let's keep it that way. In order to improve the law, we ask that the word "low" which means nothing in itself be replaced by "coordination". In addition, I would like to take advantage of and say two more words, that we, the MPs of the SRS, had this kind of intervention on Article 3, because it was happening that the entire members of the law, paragraphs 1, and 2 of the law, were explaining. For this reason, there is a Article 3 where the term will be, where all the terms of the law will be settled, and the other members are legal norms which they have in the last members of certain sanctions for non-compliance with those legal norms. I believe that the Serbian government has made a great mistake not to accept amendments by the SRS MPs referring to Article 3 and I believe that it has made a huge mistake that this word "low" did not replace the word "coordination". In this case, this point would make sense, this way it doesn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44706	Thirty seconds of Parliament time. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is Mr. Toolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm sure after this interpretation of the amendment you will consider and accept this amendment. Here's why. The very fact that you have accepted 41 amendments to the government and have accepted three amendments to the SRS certainly gives you space to accept more amendments from the SRS when you read the reasons correctly. I suggested adding point 10a after point 10a), which reads: "Air navigation includes air traffic management function and a set of air navigation services, which enable safe and efficient movement of airships on earth and in the air". First I'll read the explanation you gave me, and then I'll tell you my explanation of the amendment. You say: "The proposed amendment is disturbed by the concept of the bill, which, apart from the wording, is contained in Article 3. The bill, certain important definitions, are necessarily found in the material part of the law, since they represent an introduction to a particular area which is detailed in these material provisions." We don't think so, of course. In fact, Article 28 represents a definition of a term and is not a place among the provisions of the law, but in Article 3 which gives meaning to the term set out in the law. The very notion of air navigation is far wider and implies air traffic, air transport, as terms that are not defined or distinguished in this law. Therefore, air navigation covers everything related to the exploitation of airspace, aircraft and air infrastructure. You don't have to overwrite everything from English, you should consult both scientific research institutions and experts from the Faculty of Security and other institutions where there are finished results of theoretical research from this problem, so give your contribution to Europe, and let them copy something from us, because it certainly won't be wrong. I am sure that you are personally aware and that you think as MPs of the SRS, that we will never enter the EU and that we should pass laws that will first and foremost be good for our citizens and for us here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44708	Fifty seconds of MP time was used. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word has Milorad Krstin, so Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44709	I filed a draft air traffic law before the SRS parliamentary group. I can tell you that it is a very important law, but the minister said that many of the amendments on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been made, similar to the amendments of the SRS. Namely, my amendment to Article 3. The air traffic law proposal requires that point 18a be added after point 18a) which reads: "Air traffic management is a set of functions in aircraft and on earth which allow safe and efficient air traffic during all phases of aircraft operations. Air traffic management includes air traffic management functions and air traffic flow management, and includes air traffic services. "I will now read the argument, which is also very important and which gives its own to improve the proposal of this law, and also to adopt, that is, one prerequisite for the adoption of this amendment. Namely, the explanation reads as follows: ''The title above Article 29 and Article 29 are the definition of the term and their place is in Article 3. In addition, the definition is arbitrary and incomplete, and in particular the definition of air traffic management, which includes, in addition to those air traffic control functions and air traffic flows, basic and flight control tasks. If you are not already able to bring an adequate definition yourself, and do not use the results of the domestic scientific research referred to in the previous amendments, I suggest you use the definition – unfortunately I have to say – the European Special Committee for Future Air Navigation Systems FANS FUTURE AIR NAVIGATION SYSTEMS or the Eurocontrol document entitled EATM GLOSSARY OF THERMS. ''So, the objective of this amendment is to absolutely improve this bill and I think that Article 3 after point 18a should put this point 18a).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44710	45 seconds of MP time was used. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44711	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would actually return to the topic already mentioned, which is the theme of the 40 amendments to the Government. This is not a naive thing at all. You from these 40 amendments, gentlemen of the government, change about 15% to 16% of the Air Traffic Act. You are changing it in such a way that you do not allow the legislative body, or MPs who make it, to change it and to essentially affect those provisions that change your amendments. So this is the introduction of a new way of writing laws and proposing laws. I resent the Assembly for ever accepting to put in this way the law in question and that we, as MPs at all, are discussing the law, because this is a kind of pride of the executive authority, which suggests a bill and then adds it to the walk with 40 amendments, and the law has a total of 270, and already after Article 258, some criminal provisions are going on. Obviously, certain essential provisions of the law are changed by the interference of the executive authority following the handover of the bill to the assembly procedure. I'm undermining again, and this law, like all the other laws we've been discussing over the past few days, has been put into emergency procedures, in an emergency procedure. So, it's all a quick thing to do, it's all ad hoc, and then it's expected that this parliament has a reputation in the public, which it should otherwise have, because it's about the ultimate legislative body. Citizens are expected to accept parliament as someone who makes laws, which affects the creation of laws. In this way, parliament loses both its meaning and its role, because it simply cannot affect these changes that the government has submitted to the Assembly during the adoption of this law. After this observation, I'd like to return to Article 3. In fact, this Article 3 of the Law refers to the meaning of the term, and I would specifically refer to the terms, i.e. the definitions of airports and airports. Obviously there is a difference between the airport and the airport, obviously in terms of these concepts and in terms of how these facilities are treated, i.e. infrastructure facilities, therefore, and for future economic development where the airport or airport is located. Why does that matter in my opinion? It's important for that reason that Zrenjanin, the place I come from, has already had an airport since 1942. It is the largest C-class airport in the Balkans for seven-ton aircraft. It is an airport with a concrete runway of 1,800 meters and a width of 50 meters, which was the largest in the world at the time of construction, believe it or not. In addition to that concrete runway, which is somehow down, there is a grassy runway, which has built hangars on its surface. So this airport has already passed the first stage of construction to gain international character status. Now it should move to phase two to bring the airport in on purpose. But what's going on? It happens that Serbia's future spatial plan does not foresee that the airport has an international character, but remains at the airport level, which has far less significance than the one that has an international airport. I think there are financials of great importance for the treatment of these two concepts – airport or airport. For the grain industry, it is of paramount importance that it obtains an airport of international character, not an airport, but just an airport, because the Zrenjanin economy can take advantage of the maximum possibility that the airport would give to that part of Banat, the region. So it's really completely unclear if you read the meaning of the term, i.e. the definition of the airport and the airport. Why, after all, did it decide that the Grain Airport would only have the function of the airport. I had to mention this for that reason, because the location of that airport has excellent recommendations in terms of using airspace, a certain rose of winds can be used maximumly, so all of these conditions, when summed up, are actually recommending that very airport, for future international character airport. So, this law, if adopted in the form in which it is intended, I believe it will well set new standards in law making, because the standard that has been started by almost 20% of the laws being changed by the legislator, without the possibility of a legislative body affecting these changes, is of great importance and is of great importance to future law-making practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44712	Seven and a half minutes of Parliament time. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Mr Milan Avramović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, my amendment refers to a more precise definition of what this object is, what it should look like and what purpose it is for the take-off and landing of aircraft. It refers to point 24 in which it is explained – the runway is the surface of the ground, water or an appropriate facility intended for take-off and landing of the aircraft. Our amendment referred to a runway that is on the surface of the earth, water or an appropriate facility intended for take-off and landing of air. Why did I say "responsible object"? Because they would avoid, say, the situation that the son of Tomislav Nikolic at his new Dedinj facility puts an airport runway on the building instead of a roof, or that in Bajcetina an airport that has no technical capability for nothing, because its modesty is so small that it is a shame to break that car along the roads and streets of the city of Belgrade, so the man decides to build himself an airport or a mini-airy. Therefore, the appropriate facility must have a definition of where the runway might exist. You know, if some luxury has afforded itself, it can't abuse the security of air traffic, and that definition should be adopted, not because of the very text of the law, but because of the circumstances in which we live today. To bring that security down to the best possible level, we need to have a definition of more precise on which object can be placed on the runway. So I ask you to accept this amendment so that we do not have these examples that I have set for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44714	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? You have the word, Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44715	The President-in-Office, given that the objective of adopting this law is to achieve the first step towards bringing our legislation closer to EU legislation, the SRS Parliament Club understood this desire by the authorities and decided to propose that if, sometime in 2015, 2016, as recently it was an opportunity to hear from the President of the Republic or some other year, Serbia might become part of it, we have decided to contribute to improving the text of this law in the light of our amendments. If Serbia ever becomes an EU member, there, it will have air traffic law written properly, and if it does not become, and more specifically, it will again have a well-written law. In order for this law to be really good, it is necessary to accept the amendments submitted by the SRS Parliament Club, both to Article 3 which we are now talking about and all other amendments. As regards Article 3, it provides the meanings of the terms used in this law. However, a large part of the members of the law has been done so that the whole member or one of the views, most often the first or second position, is an explanation of the concept, not the legal norm, as it should otherwise be. These amendments are of a technical nature, but they are done in a way that all definitions of terms can be found in one place, in Article 3, while they are deleted from the other members found in the draft law, in order not to be repeated. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary club was proposed to add a new point 27a to Article 3a. This would define the term strategic level of air space management, which is otherwise in Article 32, as paragraph 1, whose erasure we have foreseen, so that there is no duplication. If you accept these amendments that we have submitted to Article 3, this text of the law would be more legal and technically correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44716	Thank you, 25 seconds of Parliament time has been used. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44717	In addition to the fact that we have asked that the term in Article 3 all the concepts contained in other members of the law and that the other members of the law are really legal norms, there is something to be said here. The functional block, in the law of Article 39, writes – the functional airspace block is an air space independent of state borders, based on operational requirements. So independent of state borders. If we look at, ladies and gentlemen, these maps, these three proposals, you'll see that it's also classified within the state borders. Of course, the EU-run countries, which use the group of countries called the EU in favour of their nation, will never give up air space, in addition to all other profits that can come in other branches. Eurocontrol has taken great care of the borders of countries such as Germany, France, England, etc., and even such as Italy. In this bloc, the Central European Air Traffic Service, Italy gave up works of its territory, gave this second one control to get a piece all the way down to Brindizia and to get the part that applies even to Bulgaria, yes, and Serbia, and to have their regional flight control centre in Italy. Why? Where the center is, that's where the money goes from overflight, from flight control, etc. Serbia was the only one who was not taken care of when it comes to borders and will not be taken care of unless the authorities take care of it themselves in these negotiations. Who authorized Mr. Trječević, former director of the Civil Aviation Directorate to sign these papers? I'm not talking about Mr. Starčević, I'm talking about Mr. Trgovević, who was the director before him. Only a minister could do this, only the Government could, with the consent of the National Assembly, because it directly penetrates the sovereignty of the state without talking about economic categories, which are quite significant, because you heard the data, 450,000 flights are about, from $600 to $ 1800, to be taken by a flight controller from one territory and to be translated across Serbia's territory, or through the territory covered by the Flight Control Agency and to hand you over to another. There's a huge amount of money involved, and the Western friends of some of our statesmen have just come to terms with that money, the bottom line is that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44718	Two minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44719	All of our amendments to Article 3 relate to the concepts that apply to the bill and there is probably a need for one member to define what the term means. Our people who understood this, and apparently wrote amendments to these people, felt that there were a lot of declarative provisions that meant nothing by themselves, such as, say, Article 43, which is simply so well-conceived and as a member, doesn't make any sense. That's why we asked these amendments to transfer all of this into a term. It's not some big problem, Mr. Mrkonjic, whether it's going to be a solo member or a term transferred to Article 3. It can be seen here that it may be about vanity and spite of people who understand each other in this area. I'm not getting into any concrete solutions, because I don't really know it, but it's obvious that our amendments were written by someone who was in the rank of a general who knew these things and probably worked out the vanity of these technical staff of yours. That's one dimension, not a big problem. However, for the sake of the public, I must say, at the time of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, we had the Federal Aviation Control Authority. From 1992 to 2000, practically, until democracy, arson, Europe, the NATO Pact, etc., was the only profitable institution in the SRJ. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, they even had their own account abroad, where all airlines were paying the overpass fee. Of course, those funds could never be transferred to the SRJ, but if it wasn't for those funds, I don't know if any of our embassies abroad could pay for water, electricity, heating, travel, presence, etc. I want to say how important this fee is, how good that fee is, but it got lost, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, in 2001. Why? Because that system "saw the frog where the horses are wetting, and she raised her leg to get a horseshoe" and sank. Why? We as a state have lost control of that compensation. Why? Because in the meantime, these jobs have been entrusted to a private firm. It's a tendency in Europe, it's a fact that public affairs, public authorities, and air traffic is everywhere public authority, the jurisdiction of the state above all, so now the state decides who, what, and how much in that area it will. I'm not talking about the directorate. Let's get this straight. We're talking about this half-private company. I remember that there was Katarina Andrić Milosavljevic, a journalist, the Milosavljevic who led Djindjic in Dubai, you remember, big export business. I hear there is also a man now who is the husband of former secretary Zoran Djindjic. There's talk of big money. It is said that the state has no insight into these assets and the question is raised – the airspace is the natural wealth of the Republic of Serbia, such as the ether, such as the pay for television for the use of frequencies etc., and here someone donated it apparently due to European standards to a semi-private agency. Of course, she has a great responsibility for traffic safety, I don't dispute it, but if this concept is accepted that every village can, with technical means of human beings, be able to get a certificate, work some parts of this system, be a great danger. In order to warn that, we need to have much more rigorous air traffic security provisions, we need to have much more rigorous measures regarding the responsibility of all participants in traffic security regulation. I get the impression that there's a vacuum that uses muggings. Criminals are by nature intelligent, they know where the material benefit is, and they're directing. You inherited it, let's understand each other right away. This is what the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or the state union of the SCG, is freaking out. It's 98 to 2% there. It's run like a company, but the state has no insight into the material-financed business of that part. I've expanded this amendment a little bit. I have no intention of answering any more, but I want to point out that air traffic is number one for the state. Public authorities can surrender to some. Take care of who you teach public authority to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44720	Mr. Petar Jojic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44721	Mr. Chairman, if you'll excuse me, I was on the Committee on Environmental Protection and I was a few minutes late when you called me. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk about the amendment I've submitted. I'm staying with that amendment and I suggest that the Minister consider it, and the Government, if they want to accept it. However, I would like to ask Mr. Minister and ask one question concerning air traffic - the question and the status of the Ponika airport. For reasons of the safety of aircraft that can land at that airport, does the state and Serbian authorities know if there are still dangerous explosives and missiles that NATO has thrown at the Ponikve and have significantly damaged and disabled the airport? Do you and the Government, as ministers, have in mind that this airport is getting better and that all the explosives there are very large? On the other hand, I'd like to ask one answer. On the other hand, for security reasons, I am convinced that our pilots are extremely professional, qualified, unlike some others, because it was almost, and I don't believe in us that it would be, the two in Croatia and both fell. Which are the reasons, who knows. I have great confidence in the Army of Serbia and the civil and military air force. I'd add one more thing, I won't answer if it's due for the second amendment – what about military airports like Kovin, Sombor, Panchevo? There are large areas of agricultural land that I don't use, and it's grown into weeds. It's a shame for the state not to be leased.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44722	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44723	Mr. Minister, you have understood that in this explanation, we wanted to move all the members of the law that define certain concepts, such as in my amendment, communication services, navigation and surveillance, to Article 31, actually to Article 3 and 31a, to be added within Article 3 because I suppose it would be easier for anyone who wants the basic interpretation of the law to come from that, of that Article 3. So this story of mys about article 52 is about to go up, because I just have to follow the course of what I wanted, and I asked for it to be deleted later. But I will take this opportunity to ask some questions that are interesting to the public, personally, if you can answer me now, since our public knows little about making, is he even finished, so on. Master of the government plan of the Republic of Serbia on air traffic, and I specifically want to ask about the Brodjevci airport, although we should bear in mind that Serbia has the opportunity to restore or import 16 small civilian airports. Because if we're expressing ourselves precisely, and that's our obligation when we talk about this area, regardless of whether anyone understands it more or less, we need to realize that Serbia with such a geostrategic position has no airport, Belgrade is just an international airport, right? In order to become an airport in the right sense of the word, it would have to have a accompanying link or networked, as far as possible, 16 airports. Why am I asking that? Because the creation of opportunities for this is directly linked to the development of other sectors of our economy. To develop tourism in central Serbia, Bor, southern Serbia, etc. We have to have these so-called. small civil and sports airports, because if anyone wants to come, you have in the end, in the friendly countries of Serbia, people who own those small foreign areas, and they want to take a delegation or do a job, because it's all business, when someone has that little plane and go to the bathroom, say, or come to Bor, he has nowhere to land. In fact, he must come to Belgrade to perform all customs and other formalities, only then from Belgrade, when he has finished his documentation, to go where he wanted to go. He can't land directly in Saturday, Vršac, Shipman, etc. My second question is about the possibility, which is pompous a month ago Sutanovac announced, but I haven't heard from you, that by the end of the following year, the airport of Lađevci, which has an ideal position at 39km from Kragujevac, 15km from Kraljević, or about 23km, that's my end, so I know precisely, from Cačka, whether there really is a possibility, and that would be possible for Serbia, especially for Serbian tourism and for business in general, for the development of the economy by the end of next year, as he announced? Is it just one of the fake DS promises or are you planning to raise funds? You know, we can promise whatever comes to someone's mind and everyone wants to live in an orderly, developed state, but where does it come from? Is there any chance that you can tell us if there is any indication, who will single out those funds and when it is possible for this project to be completed, because in addition to these two, Constantin the Great and Belgrade-based "Nikola Tesla", the first step towards the creation of that airport would certainly, in our opinion, be the basis for the programme's operation of the SRS, the possibility of turning specifically the Ships airport into a civilian and international airport?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44724	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Minister, if you sign up, you'll get your word right away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44725	To answer immediately to Ms. Jovanovic and Mr. Jojic. Yes, Miss Natasha, a traffic master was adopted by 2027. In the air traffic section, you have two airports that are practically international today, which are both national and Belgrade, and five primary airports, including Ponikve, and Ships, and Batajnica, which are military property. So now the answer is to Mr. Jojic, it's true that there are weapons, there are weapons in those coats. Everything you said was true. Great resources are needed to disarm all of this, but we have to do it. The army takes care of that. I wouldn't comment any further. I'm sure we'll do that. As for the Ships, the government decided on September 9th to enter into the realisation of the construction project, namely the preparation of the Ships airport for international traffic. Around two billion were allocated through the military budget and the deadline for the job was the end of 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44726	National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44727	I submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to the Air Traffic Act, which defines the concepts, the terms used in the law. As well as my colleagues from the SRS, they submitted only to improve the law and all those terms and definitions and concepts placed in that Article 3. My amendment would be in the following – in the draft air traffic law in Article 3 after point 32) a point 32a is added – a regular air transport is a series of flights which takes place on a pre-established line according to the published flight order or which is recognised by regularity and in which the contract on the transport of passengers, luggage, mail and goods is concluded directly between the carrier or its authorised and passenger, i.e. the order of transport, luggage, mail and goods. Then, the line is a one-way flight between the airport's first takeoff and the airport's final destination. The text of a member is not a legal norm, but a definition of a concept. That's why he belongs in a term-defined member.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44728	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44729	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the draft air traffic law, in Article 3, point 32a is added after point 32a, which reads: emergency air transport is any public air transport which is not a regular air transport, and particularly includes charter transport, aviation, panoramic flight and medical transport. The charter transport is the transport of passengers, luggage, mail and goods carried out under particularly agreed conditions, as an individual flight or as a series of flights. The aircraft is the transport of passengers, luggage, mail and goods normally operated by a low capacity aircraft as an individual flight. Panoramic flight is a transport that takes place within a radius of 50 kilometers from the reference point of the airport of takeoff and for a tour of the ground facilities in which the aircraft lands at the same airport from which it took off, except when flying by balloon. Medical transport is the transport of sick and injured persons and persons with disabilities of an aircraft equipped with the necessary equipment for medical transport. The text of a member is not a legal norm but a definition of a concept and therefore belongs to a member who defines the terms. The objective of the amendment is to improve the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44730	National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44731	Mr Minister, as we have heard from the MPs of the SRS, this Article 3 is closer to determining the meaning of certain terms in this bill, and this amendment asked that the provider of air navigation services be in this Article 3, which determines the meaning of certain terms, rather than in Article 64 as a legal norm, as part of a material law, deeming it more correct. The amendment to Article 2 that I have submitted is also a logical trail of this first amendment. I believe that this amendment actually regulates this issue in a more precise and correct way and that this area is located in a place that is not more correct and precise in law. However, as counterpart Krasic said in his earlier address, I do not think it is essential, although it was good for the more precise determination of the concepts in the law, but still, it is not essential, but I would refer to a few sentences as to how it works and operates, and in what circumstances the domestic air carrier, the national air carrier JAT. I'd like you to comment on what I'm about to say as minister in charge of traffic operations. Mr. Minister, as you must know, a few days ago at the Paris airport of Charles de Gaulle, there was an incident situation with one of our planes. Namely, JAT Boing 737, by SAFA inspection, French inspections, did not allow him to take off. In their expert opinion, there were certain technical problems on the plane. As they found out, and SAFA's inspection is, to remind, an inspection that determines the safety of foreign aircraft in the French airspace. They found that the plane had, as they said in their report, certain cracks in its hull. They wouldn't let the JAT plane take off. After that, it turned out that there was actually a simple shooting of paint, that there were no cracks on the hull. The JAT plane took off, as I was informed and took off from the French airport, though, without passengers, but the other plane had to transport those hundreds and some passengers. Some say the French are putting pressure on the SAFA inspection to buy JAT Airways from a French manufacturer. Mr. Minister, what exactly is here? Was there a malfunction on the plane or was there no malfunction? Was that malfunction, if any, essential to the take-off of this plane from the French airport? Did the state react to that? Did our government react to that? Did the JAT director, Mr. Srdjan Radovanovic, react to this and how? Is it true, after all, Mr. Minister, that after this incident, the French have notified all the airports of this incident and that Yaht's planes are not safe to fly, to transport passengers? If this is true, that they have notified all other airlines, all other airports, gentlemen, what are your Western friends doing to you? Where's all this going? I wanted to say one more thing. A few days ago, when she visited Serbia, the wife of Monica from the oval salon said that the sky over Serbia would provide military aircraft. Since we are being treated by civil aviation and the state of our military air force, and ultimately by the entire Serbian Army, I think there is a serious concern of your US friends about its security over Serbia's sky. I expect answers to these questions from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44732	Three minutes of Parliament time. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44733	Not to speculate what happened and how it was and what anyone thinks of these other institutions, of course, not from our MPs, I thank him for this question. As far as JAT's safety is concerned, they're maximum safety. The state does everything to make them as they stand. Of course there is speculation, but there is no pressure on anyone in any way towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor will the company you're talking about here. As for the other JAT aircraft, you know, and now I'm going to answer one question, I think my LDP colleague Hajdarevic asked that question about the JAT loan. The state and the government of the Republic of Serbia is clear in the view that JAT as a company should endure this year. That's why we gave them a kind of guarantee for those 50 million loans, so they could solve their current problems. At the beginning of next year, if you don't happen to, I don't like to use that term, but I can't think of any better terms now, we don't sell JAT or find a strategic partner, then the state decides what to do with JAT next. My personal position is that Serbia should have an airline and I'd stick with it, I wouldn't go any further. All JAT planes and all JAT aircraft are now fully equipped. The collaboration between JAT and JAT technique is impeccable. The Transport Safety Committee is run by engineer Miljkovic, who sits on my left, the second from me. He has day-to-day operational tasks to monitor it. I expect we'll get a report today from the French inspectorate on what it is and why the JAT plane was returned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44734	The government has tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above Article 5. The Committee on Transport and Connections has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above Article 5. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44735	Dear Mr. Minister, consistent with what you said and what we said, explaining our first amendment today, so the government has accepted 30 New Serbia amendments from a total of 46 that we have submitted. That's what we thank you for. This gave us a direct recognition that the law that Mr Velimir Ilic was working on in his previous term was high quality and consistent with what the EU was asking for. The other amendments are no longer to be reported, we just wanted to thank you for making that kind of assessment made publicly available on the previous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44736	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44737	We from the SRS, preparing for this law, have encountered one illogicality. We suggest that this illogicality be corrected in Article 5. It says - state aircraft are military aircraft, aircraft authorities of internal affairs, customs aircraft, as well as aircraft used exclusively for the transport of heads of state or government and high state delegations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every aircraft used to transport heads of state or government is automatically granted state aircraft status. Let me remind you, Stanko Subotica-Caneta's plane drove one of our high-ranking officials a few years ago, it seems to me that he was Prime Minister in Dubai. Airplane Stanko Subotica-Caneta is not a state aircraft, but the moment Serbian Prime Minister sat on that plane, he gained state plane status. On the other hand, the planes that the government has, which this state has, when they are to be issued to a delegation, that the transfer from one airport to the other, from one country to the other, does not in that case have the status of state aircraft, regardless of its owner.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44738	The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MP for the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44739	In Article 5, you have defined civil, military and state aircraft, where you have inadmissiblely mixed property and passengers as a criterion for determining an aircraft as civil or state. In fact, you've put state airships in the military, internal affairs authorities, customs and those used exclusively for the transport of heads of state, so now passengers are a criterion. We have proposed by amendment that you define it as airships owned by the Republic used exclusively for the official needs of state authorities, which does not narrow down to the way they are used when certain passengers are used, but is left to the state, as one serious authority, to determine who will be driving those planes. This kind of delusion that you are introducing in this way by defining Article 5 is the same delusion, but with much greater consequences that I want to warn the minister when they tell him that the money from the payment of the routine fees is being paid by Eurocontrol. The state sky over Serbia is owned by a state of Serbia, not Eurocontrol, whose member we are. On the principle of membership and common security, we participate in the financing of Eurocontrol, we have some obligations as members. I read to you attitude 523, where it is said that for the route fees, they are paid for the flights, the total charge, at the expense of the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Traffic "Eurocontrol", at the expense of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, at the expense of the Civil Aviation Agency of the Republic of Montenegro and at the expense of the Agency for the Control of Flights of Serbia-Montenegro d.o.o. Don't let them cheat on you and say we're getting some money because it's the money that's being charged for the routine fees on our sky, by deducting the costs that go to Eurocontrol. I'm reading from SMACE, it's our provider for Serbia-Montenegro, and please, if at the 19th session of the DCV Council a decision has been made as long as it takes for members of the Council, I respect you who don't receive that fee, but isn't it the solution that you, as members of the Council, are asking to lift something that determines your right to receive ten and a half million each year, so that you can invest it somewhere? Because it's a way to own money, so that you can get those who offer you crumbs from your desk by putting your paws above the treasure of the Republic of Serbia, which is called payment for these routine fees and fly over.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44740	It's been used for a minute and 15 seconds. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44741	Now what you've told me, I'm asking today to make amends for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44742	Thank you, Minister. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44743	Article 7(2) It's for special purpose flights. They take precedence over other flights, except over flights where the aircraft pilot has declared state of emergency, etc., where the state of emergency is obvious and threatened by illegal interference. The amendment required that we, the Serbian radicals, delete this "unlawful" thing. Then without it, there would be "compromising distractions" etc. I'd like the legislator to say what legal distraction it is, since it's illegal here. Ladies and gentlemen, if we soon become the EU's leading country, we will be prescribed laws, as we now prescribe from others. Don't embarrass yourself, say these were illiterate writings. Unlawful distraction. Every distraction is illegal. That's why we're asking that the word "illegal" be deleted and that this amendment be adopted, that this member of this law really makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44744	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The government has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The word is Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. A draft air traffic law. My amendment refers to the position of 2nd of this Article 8. I'll remind you that this attitude prescribes conditions under which you can fly above populated places, industrial and other objects at a height less than prescribed altitude. Since it's really one specific situation where no mistake can happen, we in the SRS thought that in a certain way in this matter, in these matters should be involved the MUP. Of course, we've been thinking about it. Flight control is not the original jurisdiction of the MUP and that these things are solved by one sublegal act. However, in response to the government, it is what I said, that it is not the authority of the MUP. We know it's not jurisdiction, but since it's one sensitive thing, I think the M.O.P. should have some jurisdiction, some involvement in this right here. In particular, we know that airports are mostly in larger cities and cities around bigger cities, such as Belgrade or Nis. I know in particular that he has problems like this in Nis with Constantin the Great's National Airport. In the part of the city where I live, over that part of the city, they land and fly to Constantin the Great Airport, there are planes coming in, and I'm simply a personal witness, like many Nishlia, that there are problems like this and that these problems can be found.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44746	30 seconds of MP time was used. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44747	I'm in a dilemma right now. Either this member of the law is copied, so wrongly translated from English, or it's copied from one of our scientific works, and then, in order not to be seen, one word is distorted and the whole article loses its meaning. During flight, no items, liquids shall be released from the aircraft unless flight safety or aircraft security is compromised. The very word "security" doesn't mean anything, and it doesn't make any sense, and it's obviously a scientific paper that's in the university of security and where there's scientific research that clearly defined and distinguished the meaning of "security" and "security". So that, in air navigation, of course, it wouldn't translate "security," then it would go "security." Or the first dilemma – the word "sefetti" replaced the term "security", or "security", but it was mistranslated, so it turned out to be "security". Mr. Minister, you didn't write this, but you have the authority to intervene, instead of saying "security" adopt this amendment, to stand the word "security" because security can be compromised, but security cannot be compromised. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44748	The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Dr Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44749	President-in-Office, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9. This Article 9, for the sake of the public, refers to the disposal of objects and fluids from the airships, where it is predicted when not to be evicted and situations that exempt these moments, such as the disposal of liquids and objects in agriculture, forestry, health care, in various elemental accidents. In this regulation, it is said in the end that the minister in charge of traffic affairs is making all these conditions more relevant in these situations. Our amendment reads that in this Article the 9th word - the minister responsible for the affairs of words-replacement traffic - the government. Our explanation of why this should be done is that in the Constitution, Articles 123 and 126, paragraphs 2, the general acts adopted to enforce the law can only be adopted by the authorities of the state administration, i.e. the ministries, the bodies of the ministry and the special organisation, as governed by the State Administration Act. So, all of this says in favour of this, the minister is not an authority of the administration and is practically not authorized to adopt these regulations. With all this in mind, referring to the Constitution, Article 123 and the Government Act, such a sublegal act can only be passed by the Government. We therefore propose that this article be changed and that the Government be in charge of it to lay down regulations. To mention that in some of the members of this law we have the same for some of the other provisions my colleagues are going to be talking about, the same is prescribed by the minister, so this provision should change. In your rejection of the amendment, the Government calls for the Law on State Administration and says that our amendment is wrong, and the last sentence is essentially, when it comes to the regulation, since it is about dropping objects and liquids from the air during the summer, it is not disputed that these conditions are prescribed by the Government. The bottom line is that it's supposed to be a job and that the government shouldn't bother itself with that. It's in the back here if it's celery. If it's regulated by law, if it's a legal arrangement of such acts, then it's secondary to whether it's celery, so we think that both in this member and in those future members where this intervention is, or where it's foreseen that the minister should regulate this, it should be changed to make it the government that regulates all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44750	One minute and fifty seconds of Parliament time. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44751	The attitude of Article 10, says: "For any damage caused by the launch of rockets and other flying objects, the person who launched the rocket was responsible, or the second flying object launched it. ''There can be no demand for the responsibility of individuals in these moments, because in that case there is, firstly, the responsibility of those who have laid down the rules of conduct and the responsibility of the superiors of that person. In this case, you'll be in a situation where he's on an anti-urban ramp, and he's got a warrant to launch a rocket and that rocket, because it was a ban, and his employer didn't know or didn't pay attention to it and the anti-urban missile did some damage. You want to go to jail for whoever launched the rocket or whoever ordered it, or whoever prescribed it, how and in which case the missiles were launched, and that part was dropped. In Europe, which we are flocking to and which we have not just entered, and when we do not know it, a proactive approach to security has long been a means of systemic action and endangerment, and from this it is obvious that our air authorities and managers accept only the form of a proactive approach, and in essence they act reactively. That's why I think, Mr. Minister, it would greatly improve the law if you accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44752	The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Transport and Liaison Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. A draft air traffic law. So that's where I suggested that the second position of this member be deleted. I will remind you of what this second position applies, namely, it refers to the conditions under which a foreign military aircraft can be allowed to carry an active loaded firearm, rocket or bomb weaponry and active recording equipment above our country. I asked for the erasure of this attitude for the reason that Serbia is not a member of any military pact, is not a member of the NATO Pact, and the declared policy led by this government is that at this point the NATO Pact is not our priority, perhaps some other government will have such a priority, but if it comes to what we are up against in the SRS, then let these things change. The Government's explanation for the refusal of this amendment states that appropriate international agreements have already been adopted and that this position must stand, that is, the reason why my amendment cannot be accepted. This time I'd ask Mr. Mrkonjic, maybe it's not your jurisdiction, which contracts we signed and with which countries we signed so that their aircraft could fly and carry active firearms, bombers and every other weapon over our country? I am almost certain that these contracts have been signed exclusively with the members of the NATO Pact, and that is why I asked for the erasure of this position, because I believe that this government has not signed such a contract with Russia or with China or with any of our other friendly countries. The impression is that a NATO pact is being amnested at a small door for everything he did to Serbia at the time of the bombing. The same NATO pact members, or NATO pact countries, in history that teach their children, may once tell them that they did not commit aggression against the country of Serbia, but were subject to some contract, were exercises, but during those exercises, collateral damage took place, where weapons and bombs fell out of planes across Serbia's cities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44754	20 seconds of MP time was used. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44755	Principlely, we are replacing these amendments, and there are more, where the words " Minister of Traffic Affairs" are replaced by the word "Government", we will not defend these very specific reasons because we have already explained them in what Professor Milan Knezevic said. I am using these two minutes to ask Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, as minister, not to take it personally and not to banalise the problem of his fee, but to the Council's decision, which was illegally made by the director of the Directorate. Please, don't make a public delusion that it's worth 75 000 times a month five members of the Council, a year, because it's hundreds of millions of euros that remain outside the reach of the government, the budget and the citizens of Serbia. This is the responsibility, least of all, because you are the shortest member of the Council, but is the longest one since 2003, and especially since 2003, so in 2006, they have allowed huge money to be drawn from the budget, and over the state there remains a responsibility for the security of the sky over Serbia. Please, don't translate things with less significant or almost insignificant ones, and let's ignore those that are terribly important and significant. I wouldn't want to piss you off at any point because you're not my goal, nor is it a way to give up your fees by saying on television that you won't receive, which just proves to me that, as one of the five members of the Council, you don't actually have the power to deal with what's going on there.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44756	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44757	I will propose to the Council to abolish the compensation, and I claim that the Council has such a composition, once again, Mr Sutanovac, the second Ivica Dacic, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic and myself, to keep things under control. What Mrs Tabakovic is afraid of will certainly not be. Are you satisfied now? You haven't yet? I'm sorry, we're gonna have to talk more.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44758	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. National MP Dusan Maric tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the title of Head Two above Article 14. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 14(2) states: "Air navigation service providers, air carriers, airport operators, air technical organisations engaged in the maintenance of aircraft and other entities designated by the Directorate (hereinafter: air carriers) are primarily responsible for the safe operation of their activities or the provision of services, and for the safe operation of operations within the aircraft operator is the responsibility of all individuals who influence safety in their operations". I asked for the words "to do their jobs to affect security" in the words "to do their jobs from impact on security if they do them against the established rules". The responsibility of individuals may not be sought if they carry out tasks in accordance with the rules laid down. In that case, the responsibility must be assumed by the entity or by the managers who have laid down those rules. In this case, organs and executives are protected, and weaknesses in their work are transferred to direct perpetrators. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, you're all in the companies where you worked, until DOS shut you down and sold you out, you had the opportunity to apply certain standards of conduct, especially for safety. If you haven't applied and there's been an injury to you or anyone else, it was your fault. If the standards were applied, then the responsibility was on someone else. The rules of conduct cannot be laid down, and if a man behaves in accordance with the rules and there is an incident, a tragedy, in the extreme line, he cannot be a responsible individual. Then maybe the rules don't work, and in that case those who wrote those rules don't work, and then the responsibility is on them, and not on the direct executioner. This is the opportunity for complete responsibility to be reduced to direct perpetrators, to the lowest officials, or, in this case, to flight controllers who adhere to regulations, and something happens. Whether the flight controllers who were not full a year ago were in a situation that they could absolutely just cry at that place in that tower, because the power went out for two hours, two hours ago the planes above Serbia were completely blind, two hours ago someone put a huge number of aircraft flying over Serbia at risk. For what? Because no secondary and tertiary power was provided, and they were required. For what? Because today's chairman of the board of directors, the local director bought unreliable aggregates and aggregates the moment they were to be activated, as soon as the power went out, they failed. In order to iron out the matter, then director, current board president Nikola Stankov's story – I made a move, because it seems that a German plane safely landed at the airport even though one of his engines was broken, he stopped working. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a common procedure. So many times, one engine cancels and with one or two engines, depends on how much the aircraft has, with special emergency measures, with priority etc., those flight controllers, who do extremely responsible work and have a big salary, but the fact is that every dinar has earned. Every penny a flight controller takes home is earned. We of the SRS are not talking about the high salaries of flight controllers, but about the high salaries of those who are above flight controllers and those who are around, who are the favorites of Nikola Stankov. Check, Mr. Minister, is it true that, say, the dactylograph receives 106,000, and that flight controllers receive 300,000, that the environment of Nikola Stankov receives 500-600 thousand a month. Check it out, then on some next law, when we're working, I'd like you to let me know. Now I'm using the time of my authorised representative. I'd like to say a few more words about Mr. Nikola Stankov's haughtiness. Mr. Minister, as an engineer, as an expert, what do you think the world's top power in electronics is Vietnam? It's not. You and I both agree. I'm not an engineer, but I read a few things, and I agree. That's where the equipment was imported from, "Gigant" from Vietnam. What do you think the reason is? Prices aren't, prices are world. Is it a commission, Mr. Minister? Mr. Minister, this same guy, when he was director, ordered the construction of radar on the Kopalnik. The complete radar is done, complete equipment is installed, and the radar is not working. KFOR does not allow that radar to be activated, but it did not bother Mr. Niko Stankov to buy four pairs of motor sleds, to tour the radar. It seems to me that these sleighes are used for other purposes because, as far as I've heard, I'm not a skier, but they say there's a lot of nice ski grounds out there and wintering on the Kopalnik is extremely attractive, so maybe those sleds are using Mr. Stankov that if he can't get close to the radar, then from that other hill to see what his radar looks like, that ball that's on that radar. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that, perhaps not this year, but over the past ten-fifteen very luxurious cars have been bought and shared mainly by those who work? Do you know if there's a mobbing somewhere in Serbia, it's right in control of the flight? Whoever resented the little yellow Führer, as they call it, behind his back, because they can't tell him to his face, that second he'll be fired, he's being scolded, so, say, he's being transferred, because this is Serbia-Montenegro, for everyday work in Golubovac? Do you know that the radar in the Doves is three times more expensive than it would otherwise cost? It is true that the funds collected from flight control should go for pollution tax, etc., and one part of the funds must be spent, but much of the funds must be spent in Serbia. Do you know how Germany solves, since money doesn't go into the budget? Germany made a radar on Murtenica, which Nikola Stankov made, and then made the highway to Murtenica, and brought water to Murtenica, and brought electricity to Murtenica, and, by the way, such capacity as to cover the villages. Germany uses every euro and very little or no return to Eurocontrol at the end of the year. Do you know that the flight control agency is d.o.o. Moved here to Nikola Pasic No. Seven? I wonder whose building this is. Do you know a lot more of that? The question is, where did the part of the agency that was in SIV 3 move and pay rent to the state of Serbia, because SIV 3 is owned by the Serbian state? Was he moved to a private house somewhere near Customs? Doesn't that private guy get paid? Who is this private man and how much is he paying? Mr. Minister, with all the respect for your enormous work that you have on this part, because we can talk, we can love or not love you, but it's obvious, when I go to Novi Now I see those 20 kilometers of other tapes made, etc., but you have to take the time and you have to find a way to run a little financial business of Flight Control. I am convinced that you will find things as an engineer, and take with you and economists, take with you and those who understand each other, to add two and two, four, or that's their job. Believe me, you'll find a lot of things. I doubt these big money that's being written in the paper, I doubt that at least that much of the tenders, the public procurement, the choice of equipment manufacturers, etc., because the director of a company, a large American firm, which equipment manufacturer, would just defend Nikola Stankov? His brother-in-law didn't, his cousin didn't, because he's an American, and he's here. The basic characteristic of Nikola Stankova, what qualified him to come to that place, is exactly what Mr Krasic was talking about. His main interest was the husband of Biljana Stankov, head of the cabinet of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Did you know that he was preparing to make a repeater, or radar in Bulgaria? It's kind of a country that's stopped it, someone's stopped it or someone's already told him -- don't act silly, it's still a foreign country and invest in someone else's country. Maybe it was a project of these functional blocks we're talking about today? One moment when these functional blocks work, the state of Serbia either will not have a regional centre, or will have it with Macedonia, Albania and Kosovo, but Nikola Stankov, and these 10-15 around him, who have already agreed with the Eurocontrol team, will already go to Eurocontrol in very paid places. What about our flight controllers? One more thing and I'm about to use these three minutes, and that's it. At the time when she was federal flight control, she had a civilian-military component, we had officers running military planes and we had civilian flight controllers. Then in 2006, all officers who had all flight control permits were fired, removed, sent to other duties or retired. So you have a situation to send a man who's a colonel, who has all the world's flying controller licenses, to retire from his 40s and some years. Now that the state is in a situation that has to have a civil-military component again, then young liaison officers are brought in, etc., and learn to control. There's one more thing I'll end up with. At the time, the Flight Control Agency organized a flight controller school. The money did not lie at the expense of Flight Control, but it did lie down, I think, either in Bosnia or in Croatia. How is that gonna happen? Mr. Minister, in any case, with respect and appreciation for your enthusiasm, I think you will reconsider this and that at some next session, if not now, you will answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44760	11 minutes and 40 seconds of the authorized representative's time have been used. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44761	I thank Mr. Markovic for this information he gave me. I will try again during the day, although I think, I once said, that there are already such modern means that each of the MPs and each of the citizens of the country can see our cards as ministers what we have, what we do not have, as well as the salaries of all the people who work in my sector as well. There are 25 companies in the infrastructure sector, of course, from the Railways, via the travel economy, to the Eurocontrol agencies, etc. So, I'm kind of tasteless talking about it, but I'll do my best, as far as pay goes, to break that name. As far as my associates are concerned, I didn't ask when I was placed in this place, no one to whom the party belongs or who his wife is. I'm not interested in that right now. The people who work in these 25 companies, and there are five of these flyers that I'm talking about, which I thought would be the most complicated collaboration with them, have so far proved to be very correct and good associates. It's important and crucial to me. Some of them were put in my office on suggestions, as you well know. I'm not the kind of man who's been feudalizing the government in this country, I've found that, but I'm asking all of them to perform their tasks the way they're legally supposed to do it. Believe me, these five airline companies, which I'm talking about here, of course, there's JAT as the most difficult organization with the problems it has, there's JAT technique, agency, directorate and there's Belgrade Airport, so far they're working very well. I would also like to commend my first associate, sitting on my left, engineer Miljkovic, who, as secretary of state, is running that resort. So let me talk about my associates and criticize them, and all the data that is not good, please, give it to me and I will react. Of course, I don't care what happened ten or fifteen years ago, I'm interested in how these institutions work today. I ask that you have understanding for me in that part. As far as the remarks are concerned, I have five pages here, which is why I asked, I didn't think I should bother you now, I believe, Mr. Markovic's reply to communicate with me, but there are three hundred amendments, I didn't expect that, but that's good. The law will be good. I have five-six pages of answers to these important questions that you've been talking about now, Mr. Markovic, that's what I'm going to give you, that I'm not reading here right now and that I'm not being important. Of course, many of those questions and I don't understand and I didn't know, now I know them. You'll also get an answer on how to finance these two organizations you've talked about and on some of the other issues you've been asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44762	The word came from Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44763	I'm gonna have to spend 30 seconds on my MP group. Decisions on the payment of fines to the Directorate and the Director of the Civil Aviation for the lack of information on the salary of the Trustee, which has been requested not only to be placed on the site but to be delivered on request, shall be made available to the public. There is no information about the salaries of these people, not even delivered by the competent authority and here is the solution to the execution of a fine for an unfulfilled obligation. Dot.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44764	Thirty-five seconds, you're right. Mr. Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44765	You're right. On the site there are personal incomes, or salaries of the Agency for Control, but there are no salaries of the Directorate. In the course of your break, you'll get the wages you've been talking about. PRESIDENT: The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I see that you really want to participate in the work of the National Assembly, but the problems raised by the MPs are not since yesterday. I agree that you can't take responsibility for some act or inaction while you're not a minister. The problem is that you knew about this problem as long as you were a National MP, or vice president of the National Assembly, and then some of the same MPs talked about these same problems, which are being transferred even now that you are a minister. So there goes one normal question, and what about more than two years of your ministry? What happened to change that? I see very little because the Anti-Corruption Act is being violated, the Anti-Corruption Agency, receiving public officials, directors are not being published on their website, or property cards, etc. I don't doubt your honesty that you want to solve this problem, but, Mr. Minister, there's a folk saying that says, who with the devil's gourds are breaking down on his head. So I can't say that I'm sorry for all these problems that you can't solve, just because you're entering a story that you don't objectively have the power to solve either you or this government, because if you stick your finger into the directory, you can disrupt relations in the coalition. That's the problem. If that's the problem, that's the law. We now have one crazy situation, to bring the law in line with the regulation that's being evaluated in the Constitutional Court. I've never heard of it in my life or seen it, and I don't believe there's any similar practice in the world. Yes, a public debate was held yesterday to comply with the Regulation on ensuring the continuity of aircraft and aircraft products brought by our Directorate. That's the problem. You knew about this, and now we have one situation to comply with the rule, instead of being the other way around. Now you can see it from this explanation why you didn't accept our amendment. Article 14(2) provides that air navigation service providers responsible for air navigation safety are to be designated, nothing more. Then you counted, one, two, three, four and other entities designated by the Directorate. Mr. Minister, I think this matter must be determined by law, and not by some rule that will be found on the agenda of the Constitutional Court. The explanation is this: the proposed amendment cannot be accepted, since it disrupts the concept of the bill, I don't see what it is. In this respect, Article 14(2) refers to our amendment, the most important aircraft entities primarily responsible for the safe operation of their activities or for the provision of services. I agree. Given the dynamics that change the relevant international European aviation regulations, it is not possible to predetermin any new aircraft that will be covered by these regulations. Now, Mr. Minister, let's get back to the law. The law says that the entities are the following: air carriers – first, second – airport operators, third – air technical organisations involved in air maintenance. In over 60 or 70 years, there are only three factors. What kind of dynamic are you talking about? Since there's been flight control these three factors are primary. So, what kind of compliance with EU practice and directives are we talking about? So, in 60 or 70 years, nothing has changed in this area, but the Directorate is the one to whom the Assembly should transfer its powers, and the Assembly to give him the law to make new laws that we don't ask ourselves about. Well, that's unconstitutional. As soon as this law is passed again, it will be on the agenda of the Constitutional Court. This kind of matter or any other such matter must be solved by law. This is about people's safety in the first place, second place is about the large sums of money being abused here. The fact is that air traffic control, both civil and military, must cooperate together. The fact is that by 2006, soldiers working in Flight Control had received salaries from the Directorate, and since 2006, they have received exclusively from the budget, so that there would be more money for the Directorate and Flight Control. That state authority, if anything, needs to write an account to flight control to use military controllers. There's not even that. Then you can list the members of the Council who are, that they are all ministers etc. I'm telling you, try to influence the work of the Directorate, try to change the composition, you'll see the government won't last five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44767	This time is scheduled for a debate by the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group to be spent. The government has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title above Articles 15 and 15. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Mr. Duvnjak, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have proposed an amendment to Article 15. Air traffic law. Article 15. The air traffic law proposed by the government reads: "The Republic of Serbia establishes an air security strategy. The Air Safety Strategy shall lay down the principles for achieving an acceptable level of aviation safety, in accordance with the recommended practice and standards of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. The Air Safety Strategy brings the government, on a proposal from the minister responsible for traffic affairs." I propose that Article 15's position be changed and that it reads: "The government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the minister responsible for traffic affairs, determines the security strategy in the aviation of the Republic of Serbia". Why am I suggesting this? Because attitude 1 and attitude 3 overlap, and then the sentence in Article 1 of this law doesn't make any sense, but here it's amazing that the government has given an explanation why it doesn't accept this amendment and the explanation is – because my amendment, if accepted, changes the concept of this law. Gentlemen, I don't think you in the government, or anyone in the government who reads these amendments, have even read this, and if you read it, you will see that you have changed the concept of this law and this article yourself. Here, somebody read it and see what I suggested before the SRS, and what's yours, so you'll see that it has absolutely nothing to do with what you suggested. Why did I suggest that, in Article 15, Article 2, after the word "civil aviation" be put to the point? Because, gentlemen of the government, this is settled by the Law on Language and Letters, and if you want to write us laws in English, then tell us because after words – civil aviation in the position of Article 15, what in English does the same thing we have to do to you in Article 2 – standards and recommends practice and abbreviations in the end for the international organisation of civil aviation?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44769	One minute of the MP's time was used. The government has submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have tabled an amendment to part of the bill relating to the security management system, in particular Article 16(3), which provides for the replacement of the word "directorate" in the word "government" and the attitude 4 where the word "refund" is replaced by "service". What we consider to be controversial is paragraph 3, under which an irregular directorate prescribes the conditions under which the security management system is established and used, while at the same time Article 2 is prescribed to give consent to the manual, and Article 4. to pay the directorate compensation. At the same time, the adoption of the rules and the resolution in the administrative procedure and the payment of compensation for the procedure is contrary to the constitutional principle of the division of powers and the prohibition of conflicts of interest, so that the contested provision of Article 16(3). The draft law, and with regard to Article 2, does not comply with Articles 4, 6, 123, 137, 194(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the light of the fact that it is a matter of regulating relationships governed by law, according to Article 123. The Constitution and Article 42. The Government Act, such a sublaw law can only be passed by the Government, and for this reason we have proposed to replace the word "directorate" with the word "government". What we think is questionable in paragraph 4 is the regulation that the Directorate for Treatment shall be paid compensation, which we consider to be not in accordance with the Law on the Budgetary System and the Law on Public Agencyes. Namely, Articles 17. The law on the budgetary system is prescribed to pay compensation for the use of goods of general interest and therefore fall within the category of tax revenue, and all in accordance with Article 2 point 14. Budgetary system law. On the other hand, Article 6. The law on public agencies is prescribed... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44771	The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 17 touches security and security in air traffic is subject to the Directorate. We've come into a situation where the fact directory decides on air security and all those safety-related events that air subjects have to report, mostly the Directorate protects, protects, benefits and exchanges that information. At least that's what this member said. What bothers the SNS most is that the Directorate even determines and prescribes how to collect, protect and store such data. We felt that the Government and the MUP should in some way be directed because the area of security is very wide, that we suspect that the Directorate has this capacity, that it is sufficiently professionally qualified to be able to fully control air traffic security and that this is a much more complex and broader issue, which should be resolved by the Government in any case or, at the proposal of the Directorate, the Government accepts proposals that are related to traffic security. Unfortunately, we didn't have enough understanding, but the independence of the Directorate on these issues, in matters of security, we consider it extremely problematic, no matter what some statements from the Directorate come up with even some messages, that there is even some political interference. I don't know what kind of political interference could be in the area of security. I think it has to be a purely professional thing and that all those security experts this country has need to put into this job, because it is in the interest of a large number of citizens and the quality of air traffic in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44773	25 seconds of the authorized representative's time has been used. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 17th amendment. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you're considered a very practical man, so I hope you'll talk a little bit, but there will be two words enough to say and what I'm about to say will make sense, to say – yes, the amendment is accepted. Article 17 is in the head where we talk about aviation security. The proposal is – the aircraft operator is required to report any event to the Directorate in accordance with the Safety Management Manual. We have suggested that this position be defined and specified: "Aerospace entity is required to report to the Directorate any event that could lead to any danger in accordance with the Safety Management Manual". So every event. A wedding somewhere near the airport is an event. I guess it won't be necessary for an aircraft operator to report to the Directorate that a beautiful wedding is being held that day, that two young people got married, but only what could be done and threatened by security. In an explanation, I don't suppose you've seen it, it's said that the amendment disrupts the government's concept of this bill. We didn't speak here in the amendment how and how to store documentation that regulates security, but which event is reported to the Directorate. I think this amendment should be accepted. He's purely precise about being filed, so don't disturb your concept. I think you should accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44775	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 20th amendment. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44776	Minister, don't say anything. I hope you will now accept the amendment to Article 17 and Article 20 at the same time. You probably didn't make it out of a lot of commitment to take a look at this opinion. Our intention is not to rub your coworkers' ears now, but simply to explain to you what it is to accept the amendments, because they are really practical and meaningful. I have submitted an amendment to Article 20, where it is proposed to delete Article 1 20's position, given that we have submitted amendments to Article 3, which clearly specify what the concepts of this law are and we have proposed that what you have repeated and defined in Article 20, the air space protection system, be defined by Article 3. a member of this law that speaks of many concepts that are repeatedly used through this law and that this attitude is deleted. We've specified the exact air space protection system and suggested that it be in Article 3 of this bill, so at the same time, you may, in addition to being practical and rational, have left time to adopt the SRS amendment at the same time to Article 17 and to Article 20.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44777	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44778	Article 20 of this proposal regulates the air space protection system. In Article 20(2), it is prescribed that the air space protection system and the conditions under which it is established be set up by the minister responsible for defence affairs. Mr. Minister, there's something extra in here. The conditions under which the protection system has been established have long since been established, because the conditions under which the protection system has been established have not existed long ago, would the sky above Serbia be safe? It is normal that they have been established long ago, and I don't think it should be potentiated and repeated in the bill, unless something else was going to happen. I have to look back on one circumstance, which doesn't tang you as a minister and your ministry, it was a little bit earlier. It's about the situation ahead of the new year 2007. On that day, in 31.12.2006, some New Year's greetings were written, Mr. Minister. In these New Year's greetings, a group of good flight controllers, well-educated flight control officers, received an early retirement solution, and others were translated into civilian status. Instead of these good and experienced officers, some who are politically similar, who are purely party personnel without overskilled qualifications or very scarce qualifications from this area, have been brought in and I can link them to this government in that I want to say that this government is also showing great concern for its party staff, for hosting its party personnel. But that's not what we're most concerned about in the context of this whole story. We're concerned about something else, in our opinion, much more important. We are concerned, in fact, about this government's lack of concern or the lack of concern of this government over some of the more important issues. We are concerned about the government's lack of care about the vital Serbian national interests. We are concerned about the government's insufficient concern about the country's territorial integrity, about the violent takeover of part of its territory, and so it happens that for years the EU has no alternative, and KIM seems to have. We are concerned about the government's failure to care for the increasing poverty of Serbian citizens. After all, we are concerned about whether or not we care enough about this government's army of hungry and decommissioned, about an army of unemployed in this country. Mr. Minister, I'm sure knowing quite well the SRS you know that the idea and ideology of the SRS, the ideology of Serbian nationalism teaches us that these are priorities that a social and nationally responsible government needs to think about. That's why all members of the government should at least at one point in her term remember a fine, strong and grand thought of a wise man, who says he was right or not, when it comes to my country, I'm always on her side. If everyone in this government would think about this for once during their term of office, I'm sure this would be, as unfortunately not, a national and socially responsible government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44779	Two minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. National MP Milorad Buha has tabled an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 21 and 21. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Here you go, Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, how do you think this air traffic law doesn't go the same way as the Road Safety Act, when you immediately after the adoption of the Law on Safety and Traffic on the Roads took place after four or five months of its changes and additions. How do you see that? What you have written on the same law is 41 amendments, if the law has 267 members, and it is proposed 299 amendments, it is certainly not good. To improve this law, accept amendments to the SRS and only so and surely this law will be better. That's why I've proposed Article 22 of this law to the position of the 2nd Amendment. The position, proposed by the government, reads: 'The identification of aircraft is carried out in a unique manner, and based on an agreement between the defence ministry and the air navigation service provider authorised by the Government. ''I propose, in Article 22(2), that the words ''Agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the provider of air navigation services to whom the Government powers''' be replaced by the words - regulations adopted by the Ministry of Defence. Why would I suggest that? Because air space identification is a job and military obligation in order to protect the state and cannot be attributed to the goodwill and agreement of the service company, which may be subject to this law and private. That's why it has to be legal, not just a contractual obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44781	27 seconds of MP time was used. The word is Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44782	Once again, although I've said it twice, I don't think I've made myself clear. I'll read what I wrote to give you on these amendments to the government. It is true that the government submitted 41 amendments to the draft air traffic law, since it was obliged to take into account the European Commission experts' comments on the prepared text, which arrived only after the government adopted the bill. That was in September. Only when these proposals came from the EU was it necessary for their integration into the text of the bill to be carried out precisely through amendments, so what we have now done, what the Government has done. That's why we're doing it, there's no other manipulation. Mr. Happy Parrish, let me say that we're going to take another look at these two amendments to your 17th and 20th break. I'll take it off the pay order. Mr. Momo, the site still stands – director of Directorate 415,280 dinars and deputy 381,238 dinars. For the Flying Agency, you have everything on the site, so we don't talk about it. About the purchase of the building, not to read now, and that, the Agency bought the building in 2006 under contract 40402408, etc., not to read everything. It's all right here, I'll give it to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44783	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Mr. Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22. The draft air traffic law shall be deleted both in attitude 1 and in point 2 of the word "aircraft". I will remind you, this article 22 refers to preventing damage to airspace above the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, there must be an identification of the objects. The law says "aircraft", and the SRS believes the word should be expanded. Not only are aircraft located in the airspace, there are other facilities located in the airspace and that can hurt the same space. We have, for example, a variety of aircraft, while in this law the notion of aircraft is not mentioned at all. I therefore believe that the Government should extend and take into account this amendment. However, in the government's explanation it stands, and I really cannot be surprised at this government's reasoning, which is why it does not accept amendments to the SRS. Perhaps I can agree that there are amendments that are not acceptable. But all the arguments I've seen, first of all, about the amendments I've submitted, there are 15 of them, they're really vague and illogical to me. That's why I think maybe in a break, you should take a look and possibly adopt a amendment like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44785	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Here you go, Mr. Myalyevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44786	I'm going to relax the minister a little, because I'm not going to talk about salaries and buildings. My amendment is purely technical, so let's relax the atmosphere a little. I have submitted an amendment to article 23 above which is the title - Air space damage. As I said earlier, when I defended the amendment to Article 3, I said this item 3 should be deleted. In fact, it's just being transferred to Article 3 to be 7a from point 7. We believe that conducting and uninvited flying objects should not be standing here where the air space is injured, but in the concept of expression. You have in Article 23, for example, the opposite of the first two positions – contrary to the instructions of the flight control service provider or the flying of domestic or foreign aircraft, or the air space breach is considered also to be the flight of foreign conducted and unsupervised flying facilities in that area without the permission of the Ministry of Defence Affairs, etc. Now, you have this – a conducting and uninvited flying object is a crewless device, which uses the engine to drive. So, just one term that should stand in Article 3 as point 7, as point 7a, where point 7a is said – a zone for flying military aircraft. This is supposed to be some military aircraft, so it would be more appropriate to be in Article 3 than in Article 23. Since you didn't accept my amendment in Article 3, and I'm saying that he's a cause-related member of Article 23, I don't hope you'll accept this one either, but mine was to try to make the law better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44787	Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regarding the air traffic law, there is much to be said in principle. I must also mention our colleague Momir Markovic, who informed the public, as well as the Ministry and Minister for the Lack of the Law, and what everything seems to be in the Directorate, or in flight control. These are amazing data for the citizens of Serbia, what everything is done there and what the salaries are, etc. The number of amendments submitted says how important this law is for the area and for the citizens of Serbia at all. We of the SRS have submitted over 170 amendments with the aim of improving this legal project, to improve the text. I'd like to repeat some misunderstandings, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, some colleagues have already mentioned this, especially when it comes to air space over KIM. What does the Serbian government do to restore airspace under the control of Serbia's flight? Do we know that according to Resolution 1244, this belongs to the Republic of Serbia? We've received information that this sky is controlled by Iceland by 5,000 meters, so it collects money from someone else, and we know that approval for the shortest flight costs about $600. That's an important question for us. Our amendments aim to improve this text. I want to remind the public, as well as the minister, that there should have been more hearing about the amendments to the SRS. I'll read my amendment. There is only one word that improves the text of this law, that is, Article 24(1). I suggested adding one word to Article 24. So, after the word "subsistence," the words "and accepted" are added. Why are we saying this? It cannot be allowed to execute the flight simply on the basis of the submission of the flight plan. The plan can be incorrect. In a particular situation, it must be possible not to approve certain flights. For example, in case a flight was planned in a dangerous zone. The aim of this amendment was to improve this text in this word. In its explanation, attitude 3 has been defined, but attitude 3 does not define that. This is seen in Section 1, where it is said: "Airplane can fly over the airspace of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the previously submitted flight plan to provide air navigation services to the service provider. '"It could only be added here – and accepted. This allows the competent ministry to refuse or accept the flight. At the very end, I want to move from this air traffic to this land and remind Minister Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, who publicly promised in front of TV cameras in Novi Pazar that he will help build two villages in Rogoznica towards KIM, where 24 students travel 14 km in one direction. He can't transport any means of transport. We did the project and gave the plans to your ministry and the road company, but I'd like to ask you to meet these little ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44789	Two minutes of MP time was used. National MP Radisa Ilic submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above Article 25. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to make the title above article 25. The draft air traffic law reads: "Flights of foreign state aircraft and foreign aircraft in an emergency air transport". When it comes to this amendment, it is enough to read Article 25 and see that it is absolutely right that the title above article 25 reads exactly as the amendment is proposed. Article 25(1) clearly states that this applies not to any foreign aircraft flight, but to a State aircraft which is granted diplomatic approval by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which passes through a specific type of flight control and approval. In the second position of this same member, only foreign aircraft carrying out an emergency air transport shall be mentioned. This is not about regular fixed flights of foreign state aircraft, but about emergency, as well as foreign state aircraft. On the other hand, as of October 5th, Serbia has already lost its sky. It has long been cruised by phantoms, avaxi, invisible stealth, so it all comes down to some, I'd say, a formality that we're deciding on something and that we're banning someone's flight through Serbian airspace. The true masters of our sky are in the Pentagon and in Brussels, and conventions, annexes and directives which you, not only of this law, but also of many other laws obediently, I would say, are also written in Serbian legislative traditions and are still written in these two places that I have mentioned for a moment, which are otherwise notorious in terms of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44791	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44792	Mr. Minister, let me remind you, this is an amendment to Article 25(1). However, I would just like to return for a few seconds to the 15th proposal of this law, where you, in the position of the 3rd member of the 15th, provided that the security strategy, therefore, brings the Serbian national strategy in the air to the government, on the proposal of the minister of traffic. Now watch out, here in article 25. In the plan of flying a foreign state airship, your ministry simply leaves itself out of this. I ask you, Mr. Minister, how will you bring in, or how will you propose to the Government a good security strategy if you, as the Ministry of Traffic Affairs, do not know when it comes to, by which coordinates it falls or flies, to which destinations that foreign aircraft is flying and other parameters. It is true, Mr. Minister, that the plan for a foreign air carrier flight should be approved by the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign Ministry. But where are you? Where's your ministry? Where's the Department of Traffic Affairs? After all, where is the ministry proposing a national strategy? Mr. Minister, you're proposing a national strategy. One logical question arises - will foreign state aircraft be safer if their flight plan is not known by the ministry or by the minister responsible for traffic operations? The second question, Mr. Minister, is there a similar solution in the world? Here, I'm going to ask you something else -- if you, as a state official, for example, should land at an airport in New York, I hope you can do it now, that your embargo has been lifted, that you can there. Now, if you, say, are to land there, in addition to your flight plan, as a state official, with a Serbia State Air Force, will be approved by the US Foreign Ministry and the U.S. Department of Defense, firstly, Mr. Minister, that will be the airport in the federal state. First he needs to know that you're going to land at that airport. That's not the case with us. You left our ministry out of this, so you isolated it. However, if you as a ministry or as a minister in charge of traffic operations don't know who landed here, or when he landed, or any route, or where he's headed, and how he got here, how are you going to propose a good strategy of security for our sky above our space? I think this inconsistencies should be changed and you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44793	One minute and 40 seconds of Parliament time. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 26. The title is: terrorist threats from airspace. He says: "The terrorist threat from the airspace of the Republic of Serbia will be considered any threat, activity or illegal action that could endanger aircraft, passengers and human and material resources of the Republic of Serbia. '"In my explanation, Minister, I deliberately inserted something in the last sentence that you will have to answer me this time. My argument is this: the concept of terrorism, according to international definitions, has as its basic elements: violence, the spread of fear and panic, the challenge of public authorities and the political objective. Certain activities or illegal actions that may endanger air navigation do not necessarily need to be terrorist: so, Mr. Minister, unauthorized flight, rocket launch and other flying objects in such a way as to endanger security. Since I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture, unfortunately, you know well that over the territory of the Serbian state there are weather problems that are in the form of a city, endanger agricultural production, and when I ask on the Committee on Agriculture why no missile was fired from the anti-urban stations in that municipality or in that district, they say – because we would endanger the aircraft that hit that corridor at that time, and that municipality or that district has suffered huge damage. I'm asking you -- is it true that when an aircraft flies over weather troubles, let's say, over the Central Banat County, if then really anti-urban stations can't be activated and that the missile instructions, i.e. The anti-urban missiles? If any of your helpers who sit next to you can answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44795	Half a minute of Parliament time. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 27, and Article 1, which says "are arranged by special contracts concluded by the Ministry of Defence and Air Operators" in fact by the words "government regulation". For what reason? Civil military coordination and the system of communication that takes place to protect the airspace of the Republic of Serbia cannot be regulated by the contracts of the Ministry and aircraft entities because contracts are simply two-sided freight jobs, whose conclusion is voluntary, and the conditions depend on the consent of the parties. On the other hand, the issue of defence, under the Constitution, is governed by the laws and regulations adopted under the law, which means that this issue can be regulated either directly by the law or by the rule of law, in accordance with the law. As for the arguments you have given for the rejection of the amendments, you are practically everything I have just said and what we have given as SNS MPs in the light of this amendment that you have shown. In particular, the law currently provides for specific contracts concluded by the ministry responsible for defence affairs and aircraft entities to be regulated by civil-military coordination and communication systems. These contracts do not provide for the protection of airspaces, as stated in the amendment's explanation, as it is within the responsibility of the defence ministry, but only edits the already established civil military coordination. I ask the question – for what reason is the Ministry of Defence, and why is it not as it stands in the Constitution, as it stands in law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44797	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44798	Mr. Chairman, Article 27: 'The civil-military coordination and exchange of information between the Serbian Army and the air navigation service provider authorised by the Government, on the situation in the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, is being conducted by a civilian-military co-ordination unit established by the defence ministry. ''Ladies and gentlemen People's MPs, according to a European standard called 'Concept of Flexible Airspace Management', are set up air space management units as integrated civil-military structures, which also carry out civil military coordination tasks. Since it is said in the light of the law that the law is adopted in order to be compatible with European standards and laws, it is obvious here that it is only partly for the purposes of meeting individual, not systemic interests, so that if it is already insisting on respecting international standards, then in this case it is not necessary to establish a special military coordination unit, but a civil-military air traffic management unit, and then this law will be at least in this article, if you adopt an amendment, indeed European. So far it's been said that there were civil-military systems, that these military parts of the flight control work, thanks to the will of one man, translated into civilians or sent into retirement, couldn't be helped by one man, had to be helped by another, the Secretary of Defense, today there are no military flight controllers, and I think what's just come to school. Serbia has many experts. Unfortunately, individuals may not have responded, but the state of Serbia responded as high quality, as professional, as capable, as sacrificed, but we talked a lot about the man who ruined flight control. I believe that this amendment will bring you closer to European standards and if you accept thanks, and even if you do not accept thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44799	Just one piece of information, based on article 87, we'll continue our work today after 1800 hours, but no longer than 19.00 hours, so, in one hour, the break will be at 15.00 hours. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44800	Mr. Minister, you will see that this amendment is directly related to the amendment that I have submitted, given that you have given the same explanation, I don't think you would have repeated that you have listened to me carefully and that you should have accepted that amendment in such a way as to automatically accept this amendment. Let me just say it again, and I'm sure you're also aware that the MPs of the SRS have worked seriously on this law, that we have submitted a number of constructive, meaningful amendments, that we really wanted to improve this law. Just to remind you, in your explanation, you said you rejected the amendment for reasons that international acts and European regulations must be respected. I just want to tell you one more time that it's all tied up in a lot more ways. You admit absolutely in this way that you have orders from the EU to prescribe laws, that you have to accept them, that you do not think about your citizens and the laws, and even when we adopt them, they do not apply. Behind all of this are the United States, the EU in a way that has destroyed the economy in Serbia and believe that this is how they want to take our airspace. I'm sure you're against it personally, but right now, after that reconciliation declaration, you can't make public your position, but please, get away from the United States, from that artificial nation, run from the EU, because they don't think well and at least Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44801	The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Miss Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44802	Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia, my colleagues from the SNS and I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. We have proposed to amend Article 28. It's a bill of law. We have proposed to delete Article 28, because we believe that a member in general is incomprehensible and unnecessary, because air traffic management and air traffic services are defined and arranged for the following members. In addition, this concept has been crystal clear to international aviation rules for decades, so it is not necessary to propose new language definitions in this proposal, unless it is necessary for someone to conceal the true nature of that activity because of some specific intentions. In fact, it is quite clear to us that this is based on what was happening with the fees of using the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, which was privatised without payment. The term – air navigation, it is a synonym of air traffic or possible air traffic, and cannot be defined as a set of air navigation services. Regardless of the specificity of air traffic, such language structures, incomprehensible and completely illogical, cannot be used in this law. In order to possibly use the term air navigation in this law compared to the term air traffic, the meaning of this term in the sense of this law should be defined. Our observations and reasoning apply equally to all other provisions in which the term – air navigation is used, and therefore I call on you to accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44803	National MP Milorad Krstin has tabled an amendment proposing to delete the title above Articles 29 and 29. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragan Zivkov has tabled an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 30 and 30, paragraphs 1 and 2. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Škrbić submitted an amendment proposing to delete the title above Articles 31 and 31. No one answered for the word. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, the Transport and Communications Committee has adopted the amendment, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44804	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, I have tabled an amendment to Article 32(2). The draft air traffic law, which I suggest adds the words "and the defence minister". I will read to you the position of the 2nd member: "The national air traffic management policy is determined by the Government, on the proposal of the Minister in charge of traffic affairs". So we're here asking to add the words "and the Minister of Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the ruling majority, how it is possible for you to at such a delicate moment deprive Dragan Sutanovac of the rights for which he fought for himself. Minister Sutanovac did everything he could to put Serbia under NATO's control. With Boris Tadic's policy and executive authority, part of our airspace is now controlled by the NATO Pact. Then why are you hiding behind the wording "Minister of Traffic Affairs"? When it is known that NATO representatives for everything they need contact Tadic and Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44805	The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44806	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, again as in the previous member of the law, are called "civil-military coordination units". I asked the amendment to replace itself with the words "national air traffic management unit". According to a European standard called the concept of flexible air space management, units for air traffic management, as integrated civil-military components, are formed at the state level. So, flight controllers - civilians, and flight controllers - officers. They therefore carry out civil-military coordination tasks. Since it is said in the reasoning of the law that the law is passed in order to be compatible with European standards, and European standards have always meant a civil-military component. We've ruined that wing, disbanded that wing of military components, and now, instead of building a civil-military component, you want a special military unit to be formed by law that will then integrate into this. For this reason, I believe that the amendment should be accepted, that the law calls itself an air space management unit, not a civilian-military coordination unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44807	The 34th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44808	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the SNS has submitted an amendment to Article 34. The bill, where disputed positions 2, 3 and 4, whose erasure and proposed, is prescribed by the military's authority to operate the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, as the Civil-military Co-ordination Unit is established by the Ministry of Defence and the mode of operation is prescribed by the defence minister. This way of military air traffic management, and thus to the air, is not in line with international rules on the equality of all air traffic participants and does not exist in civilised states. The current practice in Serbia, which has been expressed through the disputed provisions of this law, inflicts immeasurable damage to the development of aviation, and has led to Serbia becoming a black hole on the European aviation map, when it comes to sports, amateur and tourist aviation. There is really no need for this kind of military control of the overall air force, because the coordination of all air traffic participants is carried out by air traffic control through the horizontal and vertical division of airspace. In this regard, it must be pointed out in particular that the participation and impact of military aviation in total air traffic is the scale of the prominence, when we know how many correct planes we have within the armed forces of the Serbian Army and when we know how few attacks are carried out annually by members of Serbia's armed forces. I think it is completely inappropriate for the Ministry of Defence to have a major impact on air traffic management, with even the unconstitutional right of the defence minister to adopt regulations concerning civil aviation, as if there were military junta in Serbia. However, on second thought, I think that Mr. Sutanovac's defence minister would be most suited, there is no parliament, there is no president of the state, only him. In order for that to not happen, I think you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44809	The 34th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44810	This amendment is technically incorrect and we admit this error, but it is an opportunity for me to explain to the public that on September 29th we have received a proposal for a law that has 103 pages of text, even more, this book of kilograms and a half, we have received amendments from the Government on September 29th, which in number 41 almost 70% of the text have been amended and 260 pages of this text and 41 amendments have been made perfectly and without error in three days. That technical error, one, is really minor compared to the work we did, but it's obviously not recognized because we're not in the same positions. It's not our goal to pass a law that will put state jurisdiction under control in the right way. I'm just taking the opportunity to say that to this occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44811	This is what we'd do in the morning. I'm setting a break of one hour and we start at 4:00. The first word will be given to Mr. Momir Markovic. [[After break – 16:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we continue our work by amendment to Article 35, which was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44813	In front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment requiring Article 35 to add Article 4 to item 3 and Article 4 to become Article 5. In paragraph 4, "military personnel performing tactical airspace management activities should have the same or higher degree of professional training and the same permit for the operation of flight controllers". So, permission of the same category and the same importance. What does this matter? The European documents on the common European sky or on the common aviation area have set out in the annexes of the agreement a market competition for flight control for the allocation of competences in the so-called so-called ‘species’. functional blocks. There's been a lot of talk about the blocks today. As a result, countries in the transition sought to force state authorities to separate and privatise their flight controls to buy them later Western European flight control. For example, the director of Germany's flying control has publicly said they are moving into a competition and will start buying flight controls for the Benelux countries, and then move on. What is particularly interesting in that part is the issue of military components in flight controls. Since these systems are also important from a military aspect, the Western-European state, with privatisation done and accelerated so-called. Military-civil integration of their flight controls by fast schooling military officers, flight controllers for civilian affairs. This is particularly expressed in Germany and Great Britain, where the British House of Lords is the problem so-called. The speedy training of civilian flight controllers' military officers raises the queen's level in order for British flight control to receive primate in the Single European Sky project. These data are available on the website of the British House of Lords. In contrast, at the end of 2006, Stankov, with the help of Ponos and his followers, 30 young flight controllers, the rank of lieutenants and captains, who were trained for civilian traffic in the district control of flight and had all the permits, translated into civilians, and those most experienced, most educated and most capable, but because they were not at the will of a small yellow Führer, drove off into early retirement, and some who did not even have all the civilian permits returned to the army to the ordinary military duties, on the duty of officers. So in the district flight control since then, there are no more flight controller officers. It cannot be allowed now that civilian flight controllers have more categories of flight controllers than military controllers, since these two aspects, these two parts of a single system must be uniquely and valued. If it were different, then the segment of military flight control would be in a subordinate position, and the question is what would all these Western friends of yours say, who have opened all the gates of Europe and are just waiting for you to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44814	One minute and 45 seconds have been used by an authorised representative. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 36 and 36. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44815	Article 37 is one of the members of this proposal for a law which is practically defined and in some way elaborated on these concepts of an air space organisation, therefore, all these tasks related to the organisation of airspace, and in particular Article 37, in which we have submitted the relevant amendment, concerns the class of airspace. What is in the proposal for an air traffic law, as the promoter predicted, is that these classes of airspace and the conditions under which each class of airspace is used are prescribed by the Government and, on the proposal of the minister responsible for traffic affairs. When reading the Bill's proposal, we realized in principle that such a bill should make a single integration of civil and military air traffic and space management, so that, in that sense, the amendment that has been submitted, which is that, apart from the Minister of Traffic Affairs, the possibility of making proposals and conditions under which each class of airspace is prescribed, is practically made possible by the Minister of Defence. We felt that this would be practically necessary, i.e. through the need for air space classes to be brought into practice with all relevant ministers. I believe that such an amendment is indeed only in order to further improve the bill's proposal, and that it does not essentially exclude the possibility of the minister responsible for traffic affairs to prescribe these conditions, but that certainly, especially this member, should include the defence minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44816	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. The Transport and Liaison Committee has adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevici Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44817	Mr. Minister, we're coming back to those famous functional blocks where there's no Serbian flight control in two proposals, there's no regional flight control center, there's a third one, but it's better off gone. For the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I will show these blocks again. The first bloc predicts countries of former Austro-Hungarian countries, with part of Italy and without Vojvodina. I say, regardless of the state borders, and since all the state borders are well marked here, to the level of state borders and nothing further, Italy has accepted that the north of Italy is getting to Brindizia and here to Bulgaria. This is Serbian air traffic control. There is no Serbian regional centre. Therefore, there is no money from flying over Serbia's sky. The second proposal, which is also in circulation, is a functioning bloc of air traffic in Southeast Europe. This is the headquarters in Sofia, and yet there is no Serbian regional centre, except for a dozen who have helped shut down the Serbian regional flight control centre will get high wages and fat functions in the centre. Once again, our sky will fly, as it flies, and perhaps more, the planes of civil aviation, but the money will be harvested by someone third. The worst, and there is a Serbian regional centre, and it better not be there, includes the regional centre where Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, Macedonia and Kosovo will be. The leadership, the crew and everything else will be from the parts that are now in the centres of those countries, so we will get the situation that we have a representative from Albania, that we have a representative from Kosovo, on the side that we will recognise Kosovo's independence. Not aside, but it's not a topic now, so we'll have 52 and a few percent flight controllers from Macedonia are Shipari, we'll have one Serb and the headquarters will be in Belgrade, and four of them will decide on all important issues, including money, so, Mr. Minister, you can understand very clearly where money will be poured out in this way and where decisions will come from in that district control of flying. It is, of course, a transitional solution until the German I was talking about again, the director of the flying control of Germany, which I was talking about in the previous amendment, buys district flight control, since it is already clear that it will go to Benelux, and then goes on. What's dangerous, and that's what I said in the morning, what someone unauthorizedly signed, that someone was the director of the center and that someone was called Trječević. Mr. Minister, contracts of this kind can only be signed by the government, by the government and by the consent of the National Assembly, as the most equal of the three equal branches of government. Don't let such serious contracts and serious documents, based on a law that won't be corrected, because I suppose the amendment won't be adopted, under that law signed by unauthorized persons, by individuals, because I'm afraid individuals may have personal interests, not state interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44818	Two minutes and 50 seconds. One minute of authorized president's time, and you've exhausted that time. One minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The SRS has 32 minutes left. The 41st Amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet Radet. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44819	The amendment to Article 41, which is the position of the 2nd member, is based on the Law on Language and Letters. It is truly amazing that the laws adopted by this parliament, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are not written in Serbian. So, despite the fact that you are calling for any EU directives, which mean nothing to us Serbian radicals, it is incomprehensible to us that you have come to the point that neither the laws are written in Serbian anymore. There was really no need here, and it was clearly written, talking about navigational procedures, switching, arrival and departure, unsuccessful approach and waiting, and saying nicely, how to design and form navigation procedures in accordance with the recommended practice and standards of the International Civil Aviation Organisation is prescribed by the Directorate. There was no need to insert these foreign words, because this law was passed for the state of Serbia, for the citizens of Serbia, and you heard today's debate two days ago, when it was spoken in the principle debate, how much crime is in this area and what has been done so far and what is going to happen through the application of this law. It would be really good if the government had a little more hearing not only for this one, but also for the other amendments to the SRS. After all, the government itself has made so many amendments, which is not quite appropriate when it comes to the government's proposal. Given, Mr. Minister, that you are a convicted patriot and we have never questioned it, we are confident that you will accept this amendment and that you will not allow this law, nor in any other law, to be the language of some foreigners, especially not those enemies of Serbia, as the English, whose language you promote here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44820	20 seconds of MP time was used. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44821	Article 42. The proposal for a law relating to the development and design of airspace structures contains, in itself, two notionally unacceptable provisions as far as we are concerned in the SRS. That is why the amendment requested that the terms "cross-border zone" in both attitudes, so both in attitude 1 and in the position of the 2nd member of the bill be deleted, because we believe that such a defined part of the law means that it is zones for some joint activities of two or more states.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44822	The Government has submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 43 and 43. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44823	This amendment is due to that amendment submitted to Article 3. The bill, so that's why this amendment is so formulated. It's air traffic flow management. It's really a matter of time before those satellite technologies when you can see everything on the satellite that's in your palm. To talk about the sovereignty of the airspace seems completely pointless, when one with no idea how many thousands of miles can see everything. But since it's a tendency for air traffic control navigation devices, of course next to the GPS that uses satellite data, to now promote the standard of ground corridors, locators that are more reliable than this other one. Talk at a time of technology when you're thinking about changing the airline industry to go with so-called. the strategic or aircraft that go to the stratosphere and back, etc., and appeal to the sovereignty of the airspace really seems pointless. To talk about the sovereignty of airspace in conditions where even today our technology simply cannot control what is above our sky, at 15, 16, 20 kilometers, it also gives me no right to fight in this way for the sovereignty of our airspace. But no matter what, I'm fighting for the sovereignty of our airspace for the simple reason I can't accept the fact that technical norms and standards can question the survival of this people. I'll show that on one case. By promoting ISO quality standards for certain EU products, it has practically protected its market from entering goods on the non-production side by country of origin of the EU. They simply use their technological domination to protect their market, to promote it as a super value, and to conquer other markets based on super value or assumed super values. We're just the victims of that tech lag. That's why we have the fact that we don't have some god-knows-what quality goods to export to Western Europe, but that's why they need safe airspace, such as safe corridors for other forms of traffic in order for their goods to wander our paths and conquer our market. In this context, I have to call on something that is the sovereignty of a state and I believe that this bill, regardless of some reasons that require certain provisions, is what Mr. Markovic was talking about, that this state has approached some agreements. In front of all these agreements and international obligations is life in the Republic of Serbia. I give primacy to life in the Republic of Serbia, give primate to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, give primate to the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let me just draw your attention, and this law, like the play of the law that went through this hall, points to one fact that it's the wrong way. It is obvious that the existing government is considering this – if it gets candidate status it will be able to access EU pre-accession funds, which will allow this government to live for several more years. When I tell this government, I mean Euro-Atlantic integration promoters. Make sure that road is wrong. If you need to secure some stability, then define yourself for something else, it is in itself and in its loins, in the system of values. Patience, slow, every day to build, but if you expect all the political excursions to be covered by some donations, loans from pre-accession funds, and to make pleasure, it is possible that a few days people will be fed up, but while they are fed up they will be deeply dissatisfied with the loss of dignity and all other things that are also important to man's life. That's why we've submitted these amendments, just to draw attention to the fact that many of the things that we have to go into are supposed to, because of the signed international agreements actually represent something extremely bad, and when we come to that conclusion that it's extremely bad, it seems to me that it's going to be quite late.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44824	Three minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Pai Momcilov submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 45 and 45, paragraphs 1 and 2. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted an amendment proposing to delete the title above Articles 46 and 46 of Article 1. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 46. The draft air traffic law and the second position of this law. In fact, I'll remind you of what the member or attitude is talking about here. It speaks of how flight control services are provided. The law here states that the terms are prescribed by the minister. It's nothing controversial. That is the responsibility of the minister of traffic. However, I asked the amendment to add another sentence "with the agreement of the defence minister". In fact, this law here provides for integrated civil-military air space management and air traffic. If that's the case, then I think that in some way either with the consent obtained or with consultations or not in any way, but in any case the Ministry of Defence should consult, because this is a very important topic. It's about the conditions that need to be fulfilled and controlled by the flight.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44826	National MP Vladan Jeremic has tabled an amendment proposing to delete the title above Articles 49 and 4. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44827	This Article 49, as well as the next 50th member, actually defines these concepts, aircraft information services in flight. It is prescribed to provide aircraft information services in flight, etc., along with an objection that can be interpreted as a side effect on the existence of this member of the bill, which is that it is prescribed that the provision of information services, in addition to the English language, can also be used in the Serbian language prescribed by the ministry. We believe that the existence of such a member is absolutely unnecessary, since, of course, everything contained in the said article is contained in Article 3. The draft law, i.e. containing and representing some concept of the overall draft law, and for this reason, the SRS parliamentary group has requested the removal and the title above the members and the whole of Article 49, because in such a proposal, all of this is absolutely contained in Article 3. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44828	The 49th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44829	I hope you'll be pleased with my dictation. Article 49 regulates that the concept of aircraft information services in flight and we have a principled remark where Article 49(2) provides that the ministers responsible for defence and traffic services determine the way in which these information services will be provided. The conclusion that the person who prescribed his own working conditions, the compensation for the services he provides, where he will keep the money, what he will do with it is really hard to put in order. The Directorate of Civil Aviation and the Agency for the Control of Flights without Control, without control, illegally operating for seven years, cannot accept and this law shows that the Government is the only authority that can prescribe these conditions and that the National Assembly is the sole authority to prescribe by law who will determine and prescribe and assign to someone. In one explanation of the rejection of a previous amendment, you yourself admitted it when you were on Article 16, to which the Prosperity Group of Serbia submitted the amendment, said that public authorities, which is now, we are trying to legalise the situation in the Directorate, can exercise these public powers, but can only do the tasks of a trusted state administration, but that the adoption of laws and other general acts can only be carried out by the National Assembly and the Government. The Lords are not able to choose ministers who will do so in their interest, or according to their orders, as they have instructed you to do at that 19th session to determine the fees you do not receive.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44830	The 50th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44831	Article 50 says that in providing air traffic information services in addition to English, expressions can be used in Serbian as prescribed by the minister responsible for traffic operations, with the agreement of the defence minister. We are confident that this member was written by the minister in charge of defence affairs at the moment, and certainly not by the minister in charge of traffic operations, because that is what Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic wrote we are quite certain that our amendment would be accepted, where it is said that in providing air traffic information services in addition to English, they are necessarily used, is that right, Mr. Minister, in Serbian? Do not stay in the law so that expressions can be used in Serbian, but accept our amendment where it says that expressions must be used in Serbian, or that it must be used Serbian, which is the official language in RS, and yet this is the law that is passed in the National Assembly of the RS. Mr. Mrkonjic, I said earlier, and again, and now, you're a certified patriot and we don't doubt it, but we really believe that you will accept this amendment to be clear that in addition to the English, which we have to apply somewhere, we have to write the same thing in Serbian, and not only that, as it stands in the law that it can, so we're sure whenever we say it depends on the defence minister, which we recently found to be the ministry of lies, and not the Ministry of Defence, they would certainly avoid this possibility that what should be written in Serbian would be written and written. We expect you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44832	Ten seconds of MP time was used. The 50th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44833	This is how it goes when in Article 49 two ministers are previously elected who will do one part of the work that is in the government's jurisdiction, when they propose the same thing in another area, such as this language and terminology, say subsequently from Article 49(2)'s solution, these two ministers are doing, so let's do this job now. Instead of the government having consistency, so to put under control what is called its income, the government chose not to do so. You charge a fee for using and extracting gravel. You're charging a fee for medicinal herbs. You charge gambling fees, concession fees, and that's what's in the budget, sees and benefits. But the fee for the use of the sky is left to the Civil Aviation and Agency Directorate, under cover and excuse to comply with EU rules. It is simply not acceptable, because whoever says he is fighting for fiscal responsibility, and yesterday we talked about it, and between elections, to put fiscal responsibility under the control of billions of euros, chooses to leave to one of the parties forming the ruling majority a feud called the Civil Aviation Directorate, control and control of air traffic, and then tell me that this law could not be called – what is it worth and how much does this government cost?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44834	National MP Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 52 and 52. The word is Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44835	Mr. Novakovic, dear Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will raise one issue within this amendment that is also of interest to the Serbian public, because this article in 52 is to be deleted because of that first amendment about Article 3 and the concept of 31a, which we have proposed to be so consistent. What I want to ask as a question to you, Mr Miljkovic more, is the question of the privatisation of JAT and the fate of our national airline. In fact, you all know very well, fellow MPs, as well as the entire public, that JAT is in a terribly difficult financial situation, not to say in a complete collapse, it kind of ends up. On this occasion I congratulate all JAT Airways employees and JAT Tech, who find opportunities and strength to work with a fleet that hasn't been updated since 1991, then bought the last small JAT air plane, and Boing 1985, these are years, the age of the aircraft. With 16 planes, 37 destinations and truly extremely professional personnel, our national airline, which we're all somehow personally bound to, is that right, because that's what ours is, has an uncertain destiny. But if anyone knows what I don't know, you'll answer me, or you'll tell me, or you know it, Mr. Gristle, you've found this chaotic state, and you and I were opposition in a period of some, perhaps, that was the period of the entire government before the formation of this power of yours and, of course, the DOS, when that sunrobe of JAT began. We now have a situation where certain Serbian officials, I do not know by what kind of exclusivity, such as Minister Ugljanin without portfolio, are making statements about the future strategic fate of JAT. Nine days ago, Mr. Ugljanin, all the media reported it, said Turkish Airlines would be our national company's future strategic partner. I'm asking -- how did you come to be exactly "the Turkish Airlines"? Why did it give up working with Aeroflot two years ago? Again, you found this situation because Bozidar Djelic was before you and above all, because he refused to co-operate with the Russian national company in 2008. Although they then seemed to be offering me 400 million or half a billion dollars, the iron was rejected. Then, the then president, today Prime Minister, Mr Putin, made it clear, as well as diplomats of friendly and brotherly Russia, sent us messages that we must define ourselves and know what we want. Later, since it is obvious animosity of those who work for the Western forces, and with you are in the coalition, because you are a man of the SPS, and normally you love Russia and the Russian Federation, and Putin and Medvedeva, but they are not loved by Djelic and those associates around them, and others. Therefore, since they have defined themselves that after several months of disabling our brothers, they say that we cannot make any strategic agreement with Aeroflot because it prohibits us from the EU, please tell us now, how is that possible when Turkey is not even an EU member? Serbia, perhaps many Serbian citizens do not know, has signed an open sky agreement. Germany and France, ladies and gentlemen, as the largest leading country in the criminal formation, such as the EU, did not sign the agreement. They can fly to Serbia as they please, and we can't fly without that permission, and they can. We are now in a position for our officials, representatives of the government, to ask foreign companies to step in. So, they promote them, and in the meantime, they keep stabbing JAT in the back. Mr Miljkovic said that a working group was formed and that by the end of October, and that process will be completed within the next year, we will have information, i.e. we will know where JAT is. It's a disgrace and a disgrace to the state of Serbia. A colleague of Radeta said, because of these unnecessary and unconstitutional ones, because in official use there is a Serbian language and a letter, English words in this law, that you are a witness to the Serbian patriot. You're taught, and we're especially Serbian radicals, because that's what our entire ideology has come up with, that we have to keep what's ours and that we can help ourselves. Those who offer themselves as helpers, which are, above all, EU member states, persistently and systematically destroying us, and because they constantly blackmail and through their pressures on Serbia, say what we can, what we cannot do, our national company has come into this situation. We are explicitly opposed to any of the state officials, which would say, running ahead of the ore and thus declaring the fate of the company, before management does so, doing so in charge and ultimately that task force that you have formed. It is absolutely unacceptable for us to create such a mix-up not only in the public, but primarily in the concerned employees of JAT, a company which is and how a series of water has been released all these years by DOS authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44836	Four and a half minutes of Parliament time was used. National MP Bojan Mladenovic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 59 and 59, paragraphs 1 and 2. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above members 61 and Article 61(1) be deleted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked for the amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS to be deleted in Article 61(3). The search and rescue service for military aircraft is being organised by the Ministry of Defence Affairs. The law establishes and integrates civil-military air traffic and space management. There is no point, no economic justification, that the Ministry of Defence is organising a special military search and rescue service, especially for the reason it is required to participate in the already existing service and in the parity of 50:50. This amendment will not only improve the bill but also bring meaning into this law. There's one more thing, when I've already taken my word, and I haven't run out of time to remind Mr. Minister, I'd like you to listen to me. Mr. Minister, when you ask all questions about this flight control agency, ask yourself how the flight control agency is now the owner of the Vrsac pilot academy. Let me help you look like JAT was in charge of some money's flight control agency, and this one took his academy. What's the flight control agency doing in Vrsac? Are we slowly peeling what Miss Natasa Jovanovic said, peeling off JAT wouldn't someone buy it as cheaply as possible, of course behind your backs, Mr. Minister, not with your consent? As I have taken the floor, it is clear that Serbian citizens are monitoring this programme and it is evident that Serbian citizens are reacting. In fact, there's been some information coming to the SRS Parliament Club, and I'm going to hand over the paperwork after I finish the discussion, and there's this information that's a little bit devastating. In fact, it is known that pilots have to lay down one subject called English and phraseology. It was not valid for helicopter pilots 30 years ago because it was said that they would not fly anywhere outside these areas outside the Serbian state. It would be all right, however, when they laid down at the military academy, they did not lay English again, because they were said to have laid that down when they were given permission, when they applied for a pilot's license, even that's not so bad. However, now the diplomat of a military air pilot has become a falsification for individuals. Not only that, by the degree of the Republic of Serbia in the integration of aviation organisations, such as Jar Joint Aviation, the United Air Rules, some pilots have found themselves on the list of surveyors who are running pilot skills checks, which are translated with the consent of this Jar rules, so we have a list of pilots. A man who is normally a professional pilot of aircraft, a professional helicopter pilot, a sailboat pilot, has completed an Air Force Academy with an average of 9.4, after retirement he flew for a while abroad, etc., has sent a request to the Directorate to deliver to him, in accordance with the Law on Free Access of Information of Public Meaning, whether certain pilots who are on the list of interrogators have passed an English language and phraseology exam? I won't read the names, because you'll check it out, so you'll tell me once you defend some other law, whether or not they have any, and I'll let this gentleman know about it. I'll give you the list, and I'll give you this letter from the gentleman mentioned. So, take a look at that directorate. There's something a little under the grain, but you didn't have time to check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44838	Two minutes and 40 seconds have been used. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 62nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 62. The draft air traffic law by adding the words "with the agreement of the defence minister". In fact, this article 62 speaks of how to hire participants in the search for aircraft and search for persons. This amendment is similar, i.e. the explanation is similar to that of the amendment that I have explained recently. The draft air traffic law says that we are scheduled for the integrated civil-military aviation and air traffic, and for these very reasons I have submitted an amendment to obtain the opinion of the defence minister in these matters, especially when it comes to the search for both aircraft and persons. The members of the Department of Defense certainly have more experience and more knowledge, and that someone who would do so more effectively would do so by members of the Ministry of Traffic. I urge that this amendment be reconsidered and adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44840	National MP Mirko Munjic has tabled an amendment with an amendment suggesting that the text be deleted above members 64th and Article 64th, paragraph 1, and he gets the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44841	Mr. Minister, I have submitted this amendment and it is, as I have said, in the submission of the amendment to Article 3. The bill, a logical follow-up to that amendment, therefore, to Article 3 of the proposal for this law. Since the government has not accepted my amendment to Article 3, it is normal that by the logic of things it has not accepted this amendment either. However, I would just like to point out something else to you when it comes to this amendment, which is the next fact. In the government's explanation of not accepting this amendment, it is said that it was not accepted precisely for this reason which I have just mentioned, therefore, not accepted because my amendment to Article 3 was not accepted. It's okay. However, in a further explanation, Mr. Minister, the government says Article 61(1) does not apply at all to the air navigation service provider, but to the search for an aircraft and rescue of the person. So, in an explanation, the government mentions Article 61, and here, Mr. Minister, I filed an amendment on October 5th where I actually said that instead of saying "Article 61." It's supposed to be "Article 64." This is just one little piece of evidence, not wanting to honor this personally, but to someone who did this, that they should still be more careful, at least when we get these arguments from the government. Unaccepting our amendments, I must point out again, is not something of primary importance. Whether one, two, three or five amendments are not accepted is not the basic thing here. Although, we would like our amendments to be accepted because, of course, we feel that they are self-improvement of the text of the law, but what is there. However, there is much more to worry about, Mr. Minister, some other fact, that this government, just as someone has not read this amendment to my amendment, is that this government does not care much about the citizens of Serbia who are on the territory of another country, which does not take much care of our citizens, the citizens of Serbia, who are specifically in the Hague case, The Hague tribunal, the Serb fire range. Unfortunately, I must say so, because indeed all the circumstances that occurred in that tribunal, and you know it well, speak in favour of this fact, that Serbs there are sentenced to 904 years, and everyone else to 10 times less punishment, so everyone else from the former Yugoslavia to 10 times less punishment and killing Serbs there. You know it well, unfortunately, and your president ended up like that. They're trying to kill our president, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Mr. Minister, without wanting to honor you personally again, I know that you understand very well what I'm saying, perhaps most of all in the government, but yet this government does nothing about it. It will remain remembered, unless one of you raises his voice against this, indeed, to the shame of this government that she has done nothing for our citizens in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44842	A minute and 50 seconds of MP time has been used. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic tabled an amendment proposing a change of title over members 64 and members 64, and he has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44843	The SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 64, and it reads -- the air navigation service provider should be a public company owned by the Republic of Serbia. However, you said in response that it cannot be so because you should enter Euroliga and therefore probably this public enterprise should be in private hands. I believe you agree with me as well. I know that you have fallen into the mud, but not that Banja mud, but Hungarian mud, and therefore I believe that you will, with your great strength, get out of this mud and help to admit this amendment, or to show how and how certain things are criminalised today in Serbia. You didn't even know that, probably not even the DS MPs, that here at the revitalisation of the outside of this assembly building is actually the contractor of Omni Stock Belgrade, owner of Veselin Sjekloć, who has made many companies throughout Serbia and also a metal company in Sapco "Ingo". So you can see how this privacy works today, and probably this owner was hired by a man who left on October 5th, with many of the citizens he seduced, from Capca and this body of seduced people, he probably started here, among them he was probably also the owner and that's why he got this job so he could do these works. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, are these current flights to be carried out today by military pilots, how and in what way are they supposed to carry out these current flights? You must know, in order for one pilot to operate one plane, there must be a certain number of emergency flights. Unfortunately, this sky, as my colleague Radisa Ilic said, is being handled today by many others, rather than by Serbia. What I would ask you as a real man is – help a young woman, this is Jasmina Stankovic, who is in the mountain village of Melovo, near KIM, who, with his young son, John of nine months and lives with his mother in a cradle, and therefore help her to survive, because maybe that Jova will someday carry a rifle and guard this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44844	One minute of Parliament time. The 64th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 64th Amendment were submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 65 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 65th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44845	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, by amendment of the SNS in Article 65. The bill's word "certificate" is replaced by the words "sertification confidence", and as the controversial word "sertificate" is passed through a number of other members of this bill, we propose a replacement in the whole text of the proposal. The use of the term "certificate" is not in accordance with Article 10. The Constitution and Article 1. The law on official use of language and letter, because in the Republic of Serbia the official language is Serbian, and the word "certificate" is a foreign language. In addition to these legal reasons, the use of this term in the text of the law is not allowed because the term "certificate" comes from English and is used as a verb and as a noun with several different meanings in Serbian. Namely, it is equally translated as a confirmation, recommendation, confidence, testimony, or as a verb – to verify or issue. I don't know which of these terms you meant in the bill. Unfortunately, it has already become a practice for the National Assembly to provide bill proposals that are quite unnecessary for words and expressions of foreign origin, although there are quite adequate terms in Serbian to mark these terms. I will remind you of the debate on the accreditation law, and therefore I call on the Republic Secretariat for legislation to, in accordance with its respective competences, begin to conduct a language editorial of the text before delivering to the National Assembly for adoption. For SNS, this unnecessary use of foreign words in the texts of the law is a serious violation of the reputation of the Republic of Serbia because its own language, apart from anthem, coat of arms and flag, is one of the symbols of each sovereign state and people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44846	Thank you, Mr. Granny. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 65th amendment. Mr. Avramovicu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here's how the government answers the opposition's amendments. Now I'm going to give you one simple amazing thing, which is that those conventions, those arguments, and what the government is using to inform ministers why they didn't accept some amendment just used against themselves. So my amendment refers to the conditions for certification and provision of air navigation services, in which I asked point 7 to be extended and instead of the word "security" to write "air security". The reason for the refusal of this amendment, it is said this way – the refusal of the proposed amendment is due to the non-acceptation of the amendment to Article 9. A bill submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Then we go to Article 9 and it says this - it should point out that the provisions relating to aviation security are decorated according to the reputation of Annex 17 with the Chicago Convention and document 30 ECAC, which is basic rules governing the basic security bases at European airports in a unique way, as well as European regulations governing that concept. So he says like this, all of this is foreseen by law or Article 220. When we add to Article 220, there is a concept of air security and illegal interference, with all the titles of air security. So, here we have a 220, which explains what air security is, and then, based on that article, we write an amendment that it shouldn't be just security, it should be air security, and then the government rejects it with this explanation. Wait now, if the government has applied some method to eliminate the opposition to correct the text of the law with some explanation, why did it apply to itself. One part of this law discusses the terms that we apply as an amendment, and in the other part the same government does not propose in that law a solution as it has appointed them. To be worse than worse, there's an explanation here but I don't have time to read it, where it's said that air security is a set of measures and human and material potentials to be provided by the Air Force from illegal interference. So, this government doesn't want it to have a set of measures and human and material potentials, it doesn't want it to have an air force that's provided by illegal distractions. I'd like someone to explain all of this to us, who's wise here, and who's rightly written this explanation, if he's ever read the opposition amendments to give this answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44848	One minute of Parliament time. The 66th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44849	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 66, certification and the right of the Directorate to issue certificates. Just yesterday, we had a law on the accreditation body of Serbia, and just yesterday we discussed that this body should be determined by those institutions, those inspection bodies, those bodies of laboratories that, in accordance with international standards, are capable of issuing certificates. You are today in this law determining that the Directorate himself has the right to issue certificates. You're automatically disabling this body that we should have formed as soon as possible. The body is competent to decide whether the Directorate has the right to issue a certificate, and may not have a monopoly on the issue of certificates. It will most likely be the only institution, as the conditions for issuing certificates will be exceptional. This accreditation body of Serbia can also hire foreign experts to decide whether our Directorate meets these conditions. Therefore, whether it has adequate knowledge and ability to assess both knowledge and services, i.e. the quality of services provided. We need to have some order and we need to respect some legal logic when it comes to the laws we're making. In addition, I think it's very strange, at least in my opinion, or in the SNS' view, and this definition that the certificate is issued indefinitely. So it's completely unnecessary in this first attitude. You're saying in the third position that the same directorate is not only issuing certificates, but issuing, changing, suspending and putting out the same certificate. You have one situation, which they say – the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you. The directorate can do anything, the ministry doesn't ask for anything, and that's why we submitted this amendment. There must be a second degree. So the second-degree SNS sort of protects through the ministry's rights. I would like to remind you that this is not even constitutionally permitted, and I think that a full member is extremely problematic and fits into that belief that this law of the Directorate is too broad and that the whole law is not in line with our legal system at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44850	Fifty-five seconds of authorized representative time. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44851	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This kind of thing in Europe, you and I can do. I asked for a decimal point to be placed in article 67 instead of adding "with the previous consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia", and then the whole member would read as follows: "The provider of air navigation services can provide services in the airspace of other states if provided by an international contract, with the prior consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". Mr Minister, since we have mentioned at least 70 cases of manipulation today, and in some cases suspicion of manipulation, criminal acts in this sector called civil aviation, I ask you to adopt this section, so that all contracts of this level are signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by the previous consent of the National Assembly. Let's take responsibility to a much higher level than the one on which it is now. Since these are mostly interstate contracts, there will be interstate contracts when they start to sign, I think the National Assembly, as the highest body of three branches of government, should control these contracts and give consent to their signing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44852	Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44853	Of course, Mr. Gristle, don't get our MPs wrong when they say the amendment needs to be accepted. Of course they know the government has said what they think of our amendments, so you won't overstep it either, that your authority you have. But, in essence, we call on the MPs to take this amendment into account in the voting day. The amendments are both professional and good, made by professionals who have a rich experience in these jobs. So the fact that our amendments haven't been accepted by the government so far is just a reflection of vanity and spite, and something else. The proof of this is precisely this amendment to Article 68. With this amendment, I asked for attitude one to be deleted, because attitude two regulates everything. If a procedure is to be agreed, and in the next position it is said – to conclude the contract, you know, the contract is consent will, it is already contained, practically everything in the position first, in the position of the second, but it does not matter in the extreme case either. By adopting and not adopting this amendment, nothing more significant is disturbed. However, I would have to remind you of articles 67, 68, 69, which really make up one whole. We can call it co-ordinating the provision of air navigation services, so how about foreign airspace and our domestic airspace? And now hypothetically to imagine one situation. Why hypothetically? Well, we all know what pain our JAT has been going through, our pilots for the past 20 years couldn't fly on our planes, couldn't provide those necessary hours of flight, or the coach, to renew their licenses, etc. As a result, aircraft traffic is developing in Tunisia, Nepal, and other countries where our pilots have been fishing to preserve their licenses. I respect that, I have to tell you, and I think everyone has to respect that. We must respect our aviation experience, our aviation history. Now hypothetically to ask a question - and what if someone from Kosovo's territory and Metohija performs cloud pollution? It's theoretically possible with 2,000 balloons, with a standard and helium to pollute the entire sky of Europe. Now, you explain to me what the procedure is, what is the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, what is the responsibility of our authorities? This is in the domain of science fiction, you could probably see it, but it's realistically possible. We had that volcano in Iceland, so you saw, all of Europe couldn't fly for days because of the percentage of ash in the air. That ash is a micronic nature. And what, say, is it a classic form of pollution, of poisoning the sky in a way that can look like a diversion? Then who will be responsible, will we answer all the tasks, etc.? Regardless of this commitment that exists to the EU, we are approaching the EU, even if there should be some ambition between us and the EU, but someone does not want to give up on that road, I warn you that this can be tragic for RS, for all of our citizens. One of the evidence is this concept of seeing air traffic that should be promoted to so-called "air traffic". part of Serbia's open sky in the open sky of Europe and the world. Something quickly forgets some things. Some things don't need to be forgotten. The fact that you expect to have access to pre-accession funds, the possibility of getting big funds on a gift, remember, we've given up too much vital stuff for this people, so what you get is cheap, little, is a low price for what we already paid. Remember, in anticipation of that change, we gave up everything and everything. Remember one more thing, it's all someone abroad's fault, except for the graphite on the buildings that our children wrote. The EU, NATO Pact and the United States are responsible for everything else. Keep your head down so you don't hit your head against the wall. Remember, only graphites are something that our children have done harm. Just remember that. You expect from the access funds something. If we were to keep what we have, we wouldn't need anything from abroad, but you put that matrix into the minds of the people and you've been sailing on it for ten years. Remember, in the Republika Srpska man, he won the election at the Serbian Forever Parole. Only one party came out of the EU position and won zero votes. You'll experience it in Serbia, because you can't hit your head against the wall anymore. It hurts. Since it hurts so much, people just get sober and see that this is the way to hopelessness. It may not be a good example of this law, to be talked about just like this, especially in the presence of Mrkonjic, who, without going into detail, is the least we can do about Euro-Atlantic integration. I'm sorry, Mr. Grouchy, there's nothing offensive but affirmative for you, since you're known as the great patriot. Think about who you are, put on a line, and say, "Enoughly." Say it historicly no, give primate to our interests, each citizen individually. I remember in 2001, a minister sold permission for Lufthanze to take off half an hour before JAT, so JAT went empty. Why would he do that? To prove Euro-Atlantic integration. Then we're surprised, Mr. Grouchy, why JAT's in trouble. It's not the JAT's main problem, we know that, but it also contributes to JAT's position and to our positions at all. That's why I'm saying, first of all, we're appealing, let's get the people moving, let's move your head a little bit, so we don't all head-to-wall tomorrow. You see for yourself, wherever we're going in these ten years, we've been rocking our heads against the wall. No one cheated on the West. Anyone who sat at a table to talk to the west suffered and took theirs. I guess experience teaches us that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44854	Five-and-a-half minutes of Parliament time was used. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. There's no answer for word. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 69th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 69. A draft air traffic law. I will remind you that the 69th member is talking about providing air navigation services for the needs of the Serbian Army. So it's about an extremely important and extremely sensitive member. For this reason, I asked the amendment to add a third position, in addition to these two positions, which provides for Article 69. I have to read it. It's contracts for the needs of the Serbian Army. That position 3 would read: "The contracts concluded by a certain provider of air navigation services and by the Ministry of Defence Affairs are also met by competent assembly committees". That's what I asked for with the amendment. For what? I shall state only one reason and I think that one reason will be sufficient to consider whether this amendment should be accepted or not. We all remember the Davinic affair. Afera Davinic has done enormous damage both to moral and political and, of course, financial damages, both to the state of Serbia and to our people. If by any chance there had been parliamentary control in that opportunity, it would certainly not have occurred in the Davinic affair. One of the motives why I submitted this amendment was this affair, Davinic. But to me here, the government, I have to say, in one rude way, I'm going to read it again -- the amendment refuses to do so and so because the previous consent is given by the Government. Right, I didn't question the fact that it stands in a member of the law, that the previous agreement is given by the government to those contracts. It further says – thus providing the necessary level of control of these contracts. If the government were the last institution and the last instance where it would end, then the Assembly and this parliament should not exist. I guess parliament is there to control the government and control the ministers, and here it is said -- it is enough for the government to get to know it. In the event of the Davinic affair, the government was also familiar with it, so there was an affair. Of course, I won't say, and I don't know how that came about. If I were right to ask for this amendment, it could appear on many examples. Whenever there are problems, there is an affair, it is a practice, not only in this House, but everywhere, that certain committees of inquiry are formed that are tasked with examining the facts. So I appeal once again, since this is a very serious matter, where there can be and how great abuses can be made, to consider adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44856	A minute and 30 seconds of MP time was used. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 70th amendment. Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44857	The first position of article 70 says – the government can determine locations within the Republic of Serbia where one or more air navigation services are required. The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS requires that the first position be corrected, so that the government determines the airspace within the Republic of Serbia on which one or more air navigation services are required. In such a relatively small airspace as ours, with the destroyed and abandoned military air force and anti-aircraft defense, it is necessary that all airspace be controlled, and only exclusively in certain parts to allow flying without flying control services, which means motor dragons, aircrafts of this type. In addition, given the privatisation of air navigation services in the world, and it comes to our borders, the government has to, not to be able to determine flight control in our airspace.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44858	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 72. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. The word is Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group and I must say immediately, we have submitted only four amendments to this whole law. In fact, we didn't take any small technical corrections, and we thought that it could be done in the text editorial, and we submitted amendments that we thought were appropriate to submit. Unfortunately, no amendments have been adopted. This is the first of them. I'll take the chance to actually talk about all the amendments. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. In Article 72, we asked for Section 2 to be deleted. I'll tell you why right now. In Article 72(1), the directorate may recognise a document issued to a foreign organisation by a national supervisory authority in which a foreign organisation has its head office, provided that the conditions under which the document was issued are not less favourable than those prescribed for the issue of a certificate of competence for the provision of air navigation services. It's very clear, it's clean and there's nothing further to add and take away. Article 3 is just adding, also clearly - to act upon a request for recognition of a foreign document is paid to the directorate. It's okay. However, in paragraph 2 it writes – a document issued or recognised by the competent authority of the European Community, a acceptance without the conduct of the recognition procedure. I first asked the question of what the European Community means, and then I saw that the Government had made its amendment, and then I'm going to add something else, independently of our amendment, that turned it into the EU. You see, in terms of why you refuse the amendment, you say -- EU countries have a higher level of regulation than what we're looking for, so there's no need. It's okay, let them have, they're covered in logical attitude 1. What is wrong with asking such a question – does the EU have an interest in Serbia joining the EU? By the logic of things, she should have, but the way we act, she doesn't. Because if we give advances to all EU benefits, no matter what we are not in the EU, what we will do to the EU, they need nothing. They have a trade agreement, wherever there are some rules in air traffic, we'll give them all the blanks in advance. Should we be admitted into the EU? You don't have to. From the point of view of their interests, we don't need to. Gentlemen, this is the wrong story. In doing so, I'm not touching the essence, the point is, the conditions need to be checked. We know in advance that these conditions will be met and that is fine, we will say in one sentence - it is no problem, the conditions are met and everything is fine, but we do not have to write it in law five, ten or not know how many years before we become EU members. This isn't the only place in this and the next law, and it's not the only laws we're acting like this, it's unwise. Mr. Minister, don't be angry, this is an unwise behavior, where, of course, I don't question the essence of a member, and I'm saying that a member can only stand with attitudes one and three and everything is covered. Now that I mentioned the government amendment earlier, I was talking about it in principle, how it's not good that the government gives 41 amendments to some after, which is not the first time. I can understand some random slip, so to make one amendment, that's fine. It's still interesting what happened. New Serbia counterparts have submitted an identical amendment to the government. It says here - the amendment has been rejected. I'm sorry, this is not at the minister's expense, but it is at the expense of some lawyers who, I'm sorry, are totally ignorant, whether they're sitting in the government or sitting in the assembly. You have an impossible situation. You have an amendment to the government that will become an integral part of the law and you have the same amendment, identical, for which this assembly in the voting day will vote against. I can ask a very serious question, is that attitude adopted? On the one hand, the Assembly voted against it. Why don't you just say -- that and that amendment, which he and he submitted, identical to the government's amendment and became an integral part of the text and point, and not -- he's being rejected? Of course, in voting day when we're just dealing with buttons, and MPs mostly from the ruling majority don't know what they're voting for, if the government said so and they're pushing like the government said, it's also natural. I don't know how you're gonna untangle it then. Please be careful about that in the future. We've given you three more amendments. Right now, I don't even understand the explanation. In Article 93, where it is spoken justifiably that in the event of pollution, etc., it can be suspended, restricted or suspended for a three-year period, I asked that those three years be converted into one year. In an explanation of why the amendment is rejected, you are citing conventions that we have to respect and that in such situations we carry out restrictions on air transport, which I do not at all question with my amendment, I have no objection to anyone refusing to be 33 years old, but the meaning of the amendment to be refused per year, so if the situation is not corrected next year it will be said, so sir can't continue to suspend that type of air transport, and next year again and so can 105 years, I don't mind. Nor do I advocate allowing pollution. On the contrary, I'm just saying that these are things that change and that they need to be re-examined every year, which requires a basic economic logic. You said no, I don't know why. Furthermore, I will only talk about one more amendment when it comes to the UO Directorate, there it is namedly stated that the members of the UO are five ministers from the respective ministries. I'm not questioning the corridors at all. I proposed by amendment that it should not be ministers, i.e. I formulated "representatives of the ministry", which could include ministers. I'll tell you why. They don't have to, honor the exceptions, but they don't have ministers for certain areas to know these areas, they don't have to. After all, Mr. Mrkonjic, I am convinced, knows much better some other types of traffic than, for example, air traffic, and by natural things he will have qualified people in his ministry for air traffic. The same applies to the Minister of Ecology, the Minister of Finance, etc. So the proposal I made, to be representatives of the ministry, could include ministers. I didn't say it was forbidden. You said no. I don't understand why. I only gave more freedom to form an UO, where I, however, have one more thing, the law states what the salary of the members of the UO is, and at the very least I find inappropriate. I don't know if there's anything in some laws that lists the salaries of directors, UOs, etc. I asked you to just delete it. It's known how wages are determined in such cases, that determines all other thousands of cases, will be determined here as well. Unfortunately, there was no understanding of our amendments, so I don't know now whether we should have submitted 400 amendments to accept some amendment. Obviously, when you write an amendment with a really sincere desire to fix the law, you don't get it. I wouldn't charge the minister personally, but some of his associates would.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44860	Thank you, Mr. Shami. You spent eight minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the mandated representative of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group. With one amendment, the government proposed amendments in Articles 72, 151, 155, 169 and 233. The Transport and Liaison Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted one amendment proposing amendments in Articles 72, 151, 155, 169 and 234. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A group of the 21st MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 73rd amendment. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44861	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this topic is extremely important. It refers to fees in the provision of air navigation services, which is the title of this member. When it comes to fees, it's about serious money, literally. It's millions, not millions of dinars, but millions of euros. In the previous period, the SNS indicated that the money the Directorate spent, and it proved, in one illegal way, to be found by the Constitutional Court, that it was spent in a problematic way. It's really amazing that about that kind of money, you have two sentences in this law. In those two sentences, you do not decide who is the one who prescribes fees, respecting all international contracts. For the sake of the public, I think it is necessary to read how irresponsible we are to the large funds, and I say our objection was that, in some ways, about 300 to 400m euros have passed in these previous two years. Therefore, air navigation service users are paid to air navigation service providers for air navigation fees for air navigation services, then the fees are recalculated and their altitude is determined by the criteria provided for and confirmed by international contracts. That's literally everything. Who's the one who determines those fees? You have here consciously and deliberately avoided writing down the directory. Since the entire law on everything and everything is being decided by the Directorate, we simply don't have a body to decide who's prescribing those fees. We intervened, of course, with a complete one member and predicted that the government is doing so, because in the meantime it is quite clear that under the Budgetary System Act these funds belong to the budget, they belong to the citizens of Serbia, that the government will then distribute the funds properly. We think, first of all, that, of course, the costs of these organizations that deal with air traffic are covered, it's quite natural, but let's think of it as damage to third parties, but above all to farmers. It often happens that anti-urban protection does not work for the safety of aircraft and that farmers suffer great damage. These are the means to think about these people. I wouldn't remind you of the state of agriculture now, it's not a subject. That's something that had to go into this law. In addition, damage may be sustained by some other citizens, some other institutions and institutions. Therefore, it had to be foreseen by this member. We also predicted that more of these funds that are being made are being paid into the budget, first of all, for the development of air traffic, because these are huge potentials. The adoption of these conventions and the fact that we are entering the "open sky of Europe" gives us a serious chance to make serious income and to bring the air industry back to life. He will live, first of all, with the liberalisation and avoidance of various monopolies. I'm afraid if this amendment of ours is not accepted, and you've already suggested not to accept it, it leaves discretionary rights to the government or I don't know who, so it's possible to manipulate it. This is how I suppose it was in some way your intention to possibly rule by some additional regulation, with the pressure of a party that's most interested in the Directorate, which is G17 gentlemen, so all of these powers of prescribing these taxis to the Directorate again, means that it comes back under the jurisdiction of the Directorate, but this time to a small door.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44862	It's been used three minutes by an authorised representative. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 73. A draft air traffic law. This amendment refers to the first position of the bill's proposal, where I asked for the words "except for the army and the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia" to be added at the end of the first attitude. Article 73 speaks of fees paid by flight control users to providers of those services. Flight control is understood to be necessary for the operation of air navigation and air traffic, and for this job must be adequately rewarded, i.e. to charge service providers. However, what situation do we now have? There's no such thing as a military flight control service. That's what we talked about more than once in this law. Civil and military flight control has been integrated because military flight control has not existed since 1975, when all of this was integrated into the Federal Flight Control Authority. What did I ask for with the amendment and what is the essence of my amendment? In the meantime, someone carelessly or perhaps deliberately privatized state resources. Heaven - it's a state resource, just like mine, forest, water and everything else. Come on, what he privatised, practically when he made the privatisation of these resources, he couldn't even put into law that state and military aircraft were exempt from fees for providing flight control services. So you gave someone something and now you have to pay them if you use his services. The government says in its explanation that the amendment is too high and says – in special cases for military aircraft only in explicit cases can be asked for compensation from flight control to provide their services. It's not said for state aircraft. This is enough – if said explicitly, it means that certain conditions and certain moments exist again when flight control can charge its service to military aircraft. I think it's a thing that's inadmissible. Yet the sky is one state resource no one should have and must not have a monopoly on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44864	One minute and 15 seconds of MP time have been used. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 74th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Milenkovic has tabled an amendment proposing the erasure of the subtitle above Articles 75 and 75. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan M. Nikolic has tabled an amendment proposing the erasure of the subtitle above Articles 76 and 76. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vitomir Plužarević has tabled an amendment proposing the erasure of subtitles above Articles 77 and 77. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government proposed amendments to Article 1 of the amendment. 78, 79, 84, 85, 86, 259th point 1 point 7 and 260. point 1. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the right system. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted an amendment proposing amendments to the article. 78, 79, 84, 85, 86, 259th point (7) and 260th point 1. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 78th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 79 refers to the issue of an operational permit, to which I intervened with the amendment that an operational permit, in addition to issuing the Directorate indefinitely, issues the Directorate for a certain period of time according to the criteria prescribed by the Government. A certain amount of time is meant for what it means. A certain time shall have its own date when a licence may enter into force and when it expires or the conditions under which it is due to expire. What I am given in response is that the proposed amendment cannot be accepted since the solution proposed by it is contrary to what is contained in the European Parliament and the Council Regulation, and since 24 September 2008. I ask you who else respects these decisions of the European Parliament? Has anyone respected the decision to bomb our country without the Security Council's consent? Was there a decision and a convention under which human rights were violated? Does anyone respect violations of international law, especially in The Hague? Does anyone respect any rights when it comes to Serbs? No, only Serbs respect the rights when it comes to those who bombed Serbia. I draw your attention, Mr. Minister and your Ministry, that the operational authorisation is valid as long as the air carrier fulfils the prescribed conditions under those same conventions to which this response is called. So it can't be something inappropriate, a responsibility or an indefinite one, it has to be determined by time and date, what and why it serves. If certain rules were respected, especially on violations of international human rights, Vojislav Seselj would be at large today. So I don't want to honor you, I'm going to join a group of those who won't accuse you of why you're calling for international law. There is no international right for Serbs long ago, and Serbs should not respect what is at their expense. So I ask you to respect this through the amendment and through the decision that the air carrier fulfils the prescribed conditions, until then his permit is valid. As soon as he fails to respect those conditions, his permission doesn't have to be valid. I ask you to take this seriously because more in this law is recommendations, conventions, regulations, instructions than we can handle.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44866	40 seconds of MP time was used. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 80th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44867	Article 80 regulates the verification of compliance with the conditions for issuing an operational authorisation and defines that the Directorate may at any time examine the financial operations of the holder of the operational authorisation, and in any event at least once every 12 months in paragraph 3, whose erasure is required, as well as the previously stated position 2, that the holder of the operational authorisation is required to provide the Director, on request, with information on the fulfilment of the conditions necessary for the issue of the operational authorisation. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, didn't someone change the Ministry Act, Article 11, under which inspection rights the Ministry you run has, just haven't informed us about it? First, the finance ministry is only required to carry out financial checks on tax administrations, tax police, etc. through its authorities. What is the right of the Director to verify the application of this law, if it is to be done by an air inspection? If this is, as it is, a conflict of jurisdiction between the inspection which is within the Ministry, which is also regulated by law, and you reject the amendment, and you say that it does not agree with the directive and the regulation of the European Parliament, I ask – do we have a Law on the Ministry and Government that does not comply with European standards, criteria, you have not listed this exception anywhere, or is this the Directorate spoiled in self-government and powerlessness, so it wants to issue certificates, to give authorisation, to check the financial situation and to have absolutely everything possible and inadmissible powers in this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44868	The 83rd Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Transport and Connections has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 86th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Directorate is not only involved in the issue of certificates, some financial controls. He's doing our job, too. He deals with sublaws. The title above article 86 reads – sublegal regulations. Is it the job of an air traffic director to deal with sublegal regulations? It adopts the conditions, determines the conditions under which they are issued, changed, suspended, and puts out of force a certificate of competence to carry out commercial air transport. I think the Department of Traffic has been completely humiliated, that this is inadmissible from the position and from you, Mr. Minister, that you have been put on a completely different path. The directorate is becoming a state in the country. They can do anything. I haven't had a chance to see this in any legal project, this kind of authority of an institution, and I don't know... I can see that the expert body, that they are gentlemen and how professional they are in many areas, but I would recommend that they find at least one lawyer, so that they know what their authority is and what the legal system of this country looks like and that you let them know that they live in Serbia, that they are not a state in the state, that they can't think of anything else, that there are some laws that have to be respected, because I believe that this law, along with these remarks that we've had in these last few hours, is extremely unacceptable. You've given too few amendments, you government gentlemen. It didn't take 45 amendments. It took 145 amendments to make this look like a law that was in line with some legal system of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44870	The Government has submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. The Committee on Transport and Connections has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 93 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Marina Toman has tabled an amendment proposing to delete the subtitles above Articles 95 and 95 of Article 1. There's no answer for word. The 95th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 95 of the amendment. The Committee on Transport and Connections has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 98th amendment. Mr. Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44871	Unfortunately, it's the directorate again. Maybe I'm a little sentimentalally attached to this member. It's about air manifests. We Jagodinians have an exceptional air event, a paratrooper contest. It is a memorial cup called Goran Ostojic, a man who died defending, protecting Serbs in Kosovo. I mean, and that's essentially SNS's opinion, that there's too little room left for the sports air force, for these manifestations, and that they're not properly processed in this law at all. We felt that this job, the job of issuing some permits, could have been done by the Air Force, and that numerous aero clubs were directed to that alliance. I would also say that it was not necessary for the Directorate and these issues, given the fact that there is an institution that could do this job in a quality way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44872	The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing the erasure of the subtitles above Articles 99 and 99 of Article 2, 3 and 4. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 99 of the amendment. The Committee on Transport and Connections has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted the amendment to Article 104. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44873	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 104 paragraph 2 "The Directorate" is replaced by the words "the Ministry of Traffic Affairs". I explained briefly that the amendment prevents possible corruption in the Directorate. The objective of the amendment is to improve the bill. What was actually to be said by this amendment? You know exactly what the abuses were during the previous period related to the Air Traffic Directorate. I thought, as well as the SRS, that the proposed amendment prevents such abuses and that the authority has the Ministry of Traffic. You know that this is the body, the Directorate, like when you have an apartment, so you betray the tenant, and he betrays the other apartment. On that road, I felt that the most competent body was the Ministry of Traffic. I believe that you should accept this amendment, although whenever we have set amendments regarding certain functions, whether the director or the agency, or when we wanted to raise it to one higher level and that it has certain powers, that is, to be under the authority of the ministry, you usually never wanted to accept it, because you thought that the body, the body, the director and the board, which is actually the Directorate who is the only one authorized to handle such an organization.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44874	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 109 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Nikola Žutić has tabled an amendment proposing the erasure of the subtitles above Articles 112 and 112. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 113 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44875	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 114, paragraph 2 - before the Directorate issues confirmation of the design and technical documentation for the construction of the airport infrastructure, an object representing the obstacle may be removed or destroyed with the agreement of the owner of the facility on the cost of the airport investor. Regardless of the explanation given to me for why the amendment is not accepted, I ask again – Mr Minister, we have witnessed that in the area of Belgrade airport, the gardens of the landing line are objects that are in the process of legalisation. If you get into a situation where these objects have to collapse, part of the legalization process, part of it has been illegally built, will you make full compensation for them? I asked to delete "with the consent of the owner of the facility", not because it's about compensation. It's okay to make up, however, what if he doesn't give consent? Will the expansion of Belgrade airport or, for example, on the other side of the road where there are also facilities, will the expansion of Belgrade airport be halted if it does not give consent? I suggest that you accept the amendment of the SRS and that in this case, given that it is of greater interest, the interest of the state in the end line, the consent of the owner of the facility does not have to be present when a decision is made. Of course, the airport, or investor, will pay compensation for the facility, but the facility if it is in the interest of expanding the airport runway, for example, must be torn down. This is how you tie your hands with this attitude that's in article 114 of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44876	Twenty seconds of Parliament time. On Article 118, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 124th member says this - the conditions under which an aircraft can take off and land outside the airport are prescribed by the Directorate. My amendment reads - the conditions under which an aircraft can take off and land outside the airport are prescribed by the Ministry of Traffic Affairs. So, Mr. Mrkonjic, let me tell you right away – the trust of the SRS parliamentary group is certainly greater in the Ministry than in the Directorate. When we take an explanation that the Directorate is standing over the government, above the Ministry, that his decisions cannot be changed, that there is no responsibility for poor work, that they have huge funding, huge corruption space, then we have to trust the Ministry more than the Directorate itself. One more thing I want to draw attention to is the position of the 2nd member in which it is said that the conditions under which a military aircraft can take off and land outside the airport are prescribed by the Ministry of Defence. The defence ministry did not organise any directorate, agency or any other parallel body, but the personal ministry is responsible for that. That's how it's supposed to be with the Department of Traffic. Therefore, again, these conventions, the directives, to which this response is called, cannot possibly drink water. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you are acting as chairman of the Management Board of this Directorate as minister, according to this law. Therefore, there is no reason to duplicate these functions, but, immediately, on the basis of this amendment, the best solution should be made, which is to be a responsible ministry and to prescribe processes, and laws and anything related to this law and sublegal acts in front of the ministries themselves, and not in front of the Directorate. In this case, the Directorate will be protected as some special kind of white bear. Then we won't have a chance to criticize or analyze or evaluate the work. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Grouchy, to accept this amendment. It's your function and your ability, anyway, and your role, which is why you are here with us today in this debate in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44878	Twenty seconds of MP time was used. The Government has submitted to Article 127 of the amendment. The Committee on Transport and Connections has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 125(6), The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Connection Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 127. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Gordan Rajkov submitted to Article 127 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm sorry, Mrs. Rykov, we're going in a row. Here you go, Mrs. Milosevic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44879	Today, we had a board on which, practically, the amendment that Mrs. Rajkov handed over had been experiencing some very small technical changes. I would really like the privilege of giving Mrs. Rajkov the opportunity to explain the importance of adopting this amendment. Of course, we expect the government to declare this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44880	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Rajkov has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44881	Thank you, dear Mr. Novakovic. Dear Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, i.e. the Ministry, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I have submitted three amendments to the proposal for air traffic law, to Article 127, which speaks of groundhandling services, Article 128 on providers of these services and Article 258 on criminal provisions in the event of failure to comply with these provisions. The reasons why I have submitted these amendments are, of course, to supplement and improve the law, but above all, the reason is to ensure air transport under equal conditions and without discrimination for all citizens of Serbia, including persons with disabilities and persons with difficulty in moving. As explained in these amendments, there are more reasons for this, starting with the Constitution, Article 21, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of physical and physical, psychological damage, through the Law on Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, which prohibits discrimination in public traffic, to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Article 9, which prescribes the obligations of the States of the signatories to ensure access to public transport. There is also a European Parliament regulation in 2006, which speaks of the rights of persons with disabilities when transported by air traffic. Until now, this issue has not been properly regulated in existing legislation. This caused major problems in the use of air traffic for disabled persons, because there were numerous doubts and procedures, when someone with difficulty in moving reached the airport, to get to the airport and get their necessary services. As my colleague said, the Committee's representative, this amendment in the formulation in which I proposed it, as the other two, was not accepted. I understood because they had to comply technically with the rest of the law, but that's why the Transport and Connection Committee, practically, in its amendments, installed all these three amendments that I submitted. I would like first of all to express my satisfaction that the Committee on Transport and Connections is also a matter of fundamental importance, and also of the representatives of the Ministry for recognising and accepting this initiative as something important to regulate and since, in essence, this issue is the reason why I have submitted amendments to my purpose through amendments submitted by the Committee, I am withdrawing my amendment to Article 127, as well as the other two, to the members of 128 and 258, because their purpose has been achieved by the amendments to the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44882	Thank you, Mrs. Rykov. On Article 128 of the amendment, since you withdrew it, there is no need to give you my word, the People's MP Gordan Rajkov has submitted. Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 128. The word is Mrs. Jasmina Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44883	Practically and essentially, it's just reformed technically, in order to agree with the law, these are actually proposals, i.e. amendments to the Transport and Communications Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44884	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44885	We accept all eight amendments that have been discussed on the Committee today, so Article 127, 128, I'm not going to read the amendments, I'm just reading their numbers, Article 171, 174, 188, 194, 241 and 258. We accepted all these eight amendments today on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44886	Thank you, Minister. The word is Mrs. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44887	I would like to consult, since a few amendments have been accepted, which we, as a parliamentary group, have handed over, and other committees, and I would like to ask whether I should wait for the order to come, I would simply like the public to know what it really is from the amendments that the government has accepted. Wait till we get to those amendments? Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44888	Member of the 129th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 131 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 131st amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44889	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. You see, the amendment is not accepted because the text of that amendment is identical to the text of Amendment 23, which was submitted by the Government. I believe, however, that this amendment was to be accepted, precisely because it was submitted by the Government in the same text. Now I'm going to explain it, so you can understand, you probably didn't get a chance to study all these amendments and members. It says – the amount of compensation for the use of airport infrastructure paid for such a service is determined by the airport operator, with the prior consent of the airport owner. I'm asking you, this is one big and total absurd, because the bill allows the private to buy an airport, which represents a monopoly, and then the law guarantees it to form a price at its own free will. I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, that probably "Nikola Tesla" Airport is not already in the sales process. If we look at the director of Belgrade's "Nikola Tesla" Airport, Velimir Radosavljevic, you said that British Airways is no longer flying. Although the new Viz Er company has taken that role, what does that mean? It is understood that despite our great desire to enter this great Euroligus, we are not boys of that capacity who could play such games and we are probably disqualified, but we still have a great desire to get close to these great ones. I'm asking you, the same British Airways planes landed at Nicola Tesla Airport, our controllers were in control, and here you now see from this law, studying on the Transport Committee, whose member I also have to tell you that the controllers in Serbia today are under question, whether flight control through Serbia will be in Serbia or will they be in neighbouring countries? It could happen on Kim. So, I think that what you were present today with this law, except for Mr. Minister, who wasn't on the Traffic Committee, you were all the others who were with Mr. Minister and you saw that these 40 amendments, as we asked whether we were essentially, because we didn't have them, change the meaning of this law, we were told – no. However, I must tell you honestly, when I studied, I saw that they were essentially changing the law. Once again, I ask you, since my amendment to the amendment to the Government is in line, that Mr. Minister, whom I greatly respect, accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44890	One minute and 15 seconds of Parliament time. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 133 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of Chapter Seven. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government has tabled an amendment proposing in Chapter seven of Amendments to Section Two. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Government has submitted to Article 138 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government has submitted to Article 139 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Government has submitted to Article 149 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. A member of the 150th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 151 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title above Articles 152 and 152. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has tabled an amendment proposing that Section III amend the name of subsection 2 and the names above the members and members 153. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric to Article 153. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 154 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Mr Popovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44891	In Article 154(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: I submitted the draft air traffic law by proposing that following the words "The Directorate, upon receipt of the documentation, carry out additional checks and then determines a new type or refuses to request a new type" they add the words "to the criteria prescribed by the Ministry of Traffic Affairs". The adoption of this amendment would reduce the discretionary powers of management and professional services in the Directorate, thus reducing the possibility of corruption, which is objectively possible when considering the requirements of an air and technical organisation. You are in the previous article 153. The draft law lays down that the technical rules of navigation are adopted by the Directorate. The position of the SRS is that criteria, i.e. technical regulations, should be established in accordance with Article 154. We in the SRS have come to know that the highest degree of corruption that is skillfully hidden in the area of traffic in Serbia is recorded in the current directorate run by Nikola Stankov. We believe that Niko Stankov and his associates cannot be entrusted with such delicate business, without criteria that would previously be signed by the competent ministry, but anything can happen in democratic Serbia. According to the party key, Nikola Stankov became director of the Directorate, given the reference that his wife Biljana Stankov was Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44892	The amendment was submitted to Article 154 of the amendment by the Government, the Transport and Communications Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 154th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Miss Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44893	Dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, colleagues and I, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, have proposed to amend Serbia with an amendment to delete Article 5 in Article 154. It's a bill of law. We have proposed to delete item 5 because the Law on Administrative Taxes is prescribed to pay administrative fees for the assurances and confirmations set out in Article 5, which is defined as paying for the services of the competent authority. The additional regulation of payment to the Director shall not comply with Article 2. The law on public agencies, which is prescribed to be established only if jobs can be done better and more effectively than the public administration body, and these conditions certainly include a lower service price, or at least not higher. A fundamental question can be asked whether the conditions for the establishment of a directorate have been met in the first place? By prescribing additional financial obligations of aircraft owners and aircraft organisations to the directorate, they collect aviation activities and have a negative impact on the development of the air force. Due to their poor policies and high costs, our citizens and businesses have not registered their aircraft in Serbia but abroad, and the procedure for repealing the DCV Refunds Regulation is under way before the Constitutional Court, together with the decision to set up a directorate. The same remark applies to all other members who contain such provisions, which are introduced in addition to legal fees to the directorate, and I invite you to accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44894	Thank you, Miss Budimirovic. The amendment was submitted to Article 155 of the amendment by the Government, the Transport and Communications Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic to Article 155. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44895	I'll have to read article 155. "The directorate can recognise a document on the type that issued by the air authority of a foreign country, if the conditions under which it was issued are not less favourable than the conditions prescribed for issuing a certificate of type of aircraft and aircraft product." Item 2: "The document on the type which has issued or recognised the competent authority of the European Community is accepted, without conducting the recognition procedure". My colleague Ljubisa Petkovic asked for the second position of this member of the law to be deleted. It means that if the European Community has issued a document, then it will be recognised without all these controls and conditions that will apply to everything else. We are not members of the EU, we are not members of the European Community that we must treat them so condescendingly. Conditions must be the same for everyone. Therefore, I believe that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44896	One minute and 10 seconds of Parliament time. The amendment was submitted to Article 156 of the amendment by the Government, the Transport and Connection Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Ambassador Ljubisa Petkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Article 157 and Article 157. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 159 of the amendment by the Government, the Transport and Communications Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Parliamentarians Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 159 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Dr Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44897	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 159, and now that member is referring to a basic survey of the aircraft, where in the last position of the 4th member is said to be carried out by the Directorate, to whom compensation is paid. Our amendment reads that this position of the fourth member is deleted. Why? The directorate cannot be authorised to carry out these basic aircraft examinations because there is neither technical nor personnel organisation conditions, either for maintenance, production or for aircraft inspection, means that it does not meet the conditions. The comparison would be as if the MUP carried out technical checks on the vehicle, not services that are legally carrying out the job. The second thing is to take into account that Article 167 requires the Directorate to prescribe the conditions for conducting the examination and issuing of licences. So, on the one hand, it's authorized and prescribed conditions and it's in control. Practically, we have a conflict of interest. For these reasons, we believe that this amendment should be accepted, and you can see for yourself, when we talk about basic inspections of aircraft, and that the directorate has so many powers, from certifications, from certifications, from seizing permits, from basic technical examinations, so that they are too many powers, for which they are neither human or organisationally qualified and should, not only this one but all of our amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44898	The 161st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has been made by the People's MP, Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44899	Indeed, this article 161 is connected to Article 159 and leads to absurdities that usurpation of rights by the Civil Aviation Directorate. Here, let me just plastically explain what it looks like. For example, the protein cement factory is among the first privatized and imagine that now one La Farž, who already owns it at the moment, prescribes the conditions of the sale of cement, for quality control, determines the participation in the market of each of these, and itself is a participant in the market and producer. Who would be in charge here to control? The Anti-Corruption Agency or the Competition Protection Commission or any body that could establish whether we are a state or not. As a rule that the tax is hard to break once, so you spend these few hours here, all the arguments that we make, along with all of them, allow someone to reach in another area, where we may have provided competition or regular business conditions, to make sense. Where there's a natural monopoly, a natural resource, that the sky is charged as if it were an inheritance or a grandmother, and that also leads to the disenfranchisement that the sky is being controlled by security, but also by all those who need to fly in the sky. Indeed, Minister, I don't know if anyone has told you what it says in this law and whether you have a separation between who decides who signs it. You start with a travel order, you always get separated by a commanding officer, the one who lays down accounts and the one who has to record it. You here have everything in one person who has neither technical nor any other capacity to perform all these services, but therefore has to be asked about everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44900	National MP Mr. Milan Avramovic submitted the amendment to Article 167 and received a word to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44901	Yes, here I am still holding the thesis and attitude of the SRS to have more confidence in the Ministry of Traffic Affairs instead of the Directorate himself. Under this bill, we can draw all the conclusions regarding the powers of the Directorate that we have another air traffic ministry, just called the Directorate. Respecting the Agency Act, to wrap it up nicely, to get under the control of the Ministry and not, we are now in a situation that even sublegal regulations are prescribed by the Directorate himself. So, the role of the Department of Traffic here doesn't exist. The minister, except that the chairman of the Management Board, acting as the ministry in charge of traffic, has no other role than the Directorate and Sublegal Act relating to Article 167. I'm not going to analyze it so I don't waste my time, but I'm just going to remind you and open up in the Ministry Act that I need to form another air traffic ministry and then we shouldn't have overlapping these responsibilities. Respecting the SRS parliamentary group's view of agencies in general, that they are unnecessary, that budget consumers are and that they are used to impair political personnel, I'm not saying that this is a case in this directorate, but there is that, we have to agree with the same fact that this directorate is a completely parallel institution compared to the ministry, even has more value than the ministry itself, because the ministry cannot change its decisions or write sublegal acts under which the Directorate will operate. So I ask you, Minister, to accept this amendment that the Ministry of Transport really be the Ministry of Traffic, and that this directorate be a narrow branch that will only help the ministry, not vice versa.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44902	The government has tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of Section Five, Article 168. The Transport and Communications Committee has adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution of the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted an amendment proposing to change the name of section 5, Article 168. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 169 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 169 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted an amendment suggesting that he delete the subtitles above Members 170 and Articles 170. No one's answering for a word. The 171st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Jasmina Milosevic, Petar Petrovic. The word is Mrs. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44903	Now we've come to that amendment that we first heard the government accepted. In fact, the government did not accept it, but in addition to the small technical corrections, they became amendments to the Traffic Committee, and in fact, it is about the fact that they are being obtained to include flight attendants and flight attendants as part of the new flight staff. We think it's very good that the government has heard and accepted our suggestion and we've put them on auxiliary flight staff, because really flight attendants and flight attendants can't represent someone who'll bring us coffee and tea, but they're people who will help everyone and if someone gets sick. In fact, the question arises why are there as many of them as there are auxiliary exits on the plane? Exactly to ensure our safety due to forced landings and some other inconveniences that would potentially occur. The other amendments that we have submitted as a parliamentary group have now been reformed in terms of the amendments submitted by the Committee. I just wanted to say that it might be more meaningful to withdraw the amendments that we have given, because their purpose has been fully met through the amendments that the government has accepted. I'd like to say one more thing, I don't think anyone has mentioned so far that exactly air traffic is the kind of traffic that the least accident has in relation to the total number of passengers transported and the extent of the traffic it carries. Perhaps the reason is precisely the strictness of the rules relating to the staff, which also applies to the means of transport, in this case an aircraft or another aircraft and which refers to both the airport itself and that flight control that is in charge of safety. As I said, often airlines choose safer rather than shorter routes and can all be the reason, the strictness of the rules they enforce, for that small number of accidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44904	National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted the amendment to Article 171. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 171 which was accepted by the present minister. On Article 172, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The word is Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment refers to the directorate's intention to issue permits to the paratroopers and we believe this should be the job of the Serbia Air Force. Let me just read what the activities of the Serbia Air Force are. He deals with air and rocket modeling, parachutery, motor aircraft flying, ultra-light aircraft flying, dragoning, paragliding, ballooning. It is an extremely respectable establishment that trains personnel only for sports and partly for civil and military aviation, even one establishment that organises a General Conference of the World Aviation Organisation in 2011. So this institution can't be so easily accepted by the Air Traffic Act. If you've already decided to issue paratroopers' licenses, you haven't decided to issue permits, say, for pilots in light motor planes, dragons, people who do paragliding, ballooning. Why did you leave it to someone else? There are more financial resources in this area than in these others I mentioned earlier, and why so different approach? I think in the light of the amendment, that's why you've made no argument, except that you're as arrogant as you've imagined this law, some arguments in terms of "can be found," which is why you've decided to give permission to the paratroopers. We believe that a serious mistake has been made here and that there was no need to involve the sports air force in this way in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44906	Twenty seconds of authorized representative time. Member of the 173rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic to Article 174. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 174. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. I find this amendment has just been withdrawn. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 174, which was accepted by the present minister. National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment proposing to delete the title above Articles 176 and 176. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 176 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44907	My conscience will be calm when in the name of the SNS I state at least a position on what this law means. If you have a Article 176 in which authorization is defined, where the Directorate claims that those who need to give special documents that will empower a person to take action on behalf of the Directorate, or to perform certain tasks, other than decision-making, do not give it to anyone, even the ministers, or the inspection, or to you, or the Government, or the Constitution, to allow no one to make decisions alive, but the jobs and the actions want to leave, to charge, it writes, and to prescribe the conditions under which they can hand over certain tasks for a certain period of time. Renting the political power of those few hands that decide that this Directorate remains a little bit under the law, but more out of the law, outside of some real, logical and just norms of existence, has led to you having an entrepreneur Directorate who has powers, and then he, like those buyers and shoppers at the market, will sell them to others, but not proven professional and trained to do their part of the work, and that physically, and yet the decision will remain with them. Will it be a calm conscience for you to allow such a law to pass, we shall all see it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44908	Member of the 177th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 177 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramović to Article 184. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44909	I'm sorry, Mr. Novakovic, but there's no precise government report on these amendments, and then we have a little problem. So, exactly, in Article 184(1). The "proposal" is replaced by the word "a warrant". In this amendment to Article 184, my will was to define the proposal as a warrant in order to allow conditions for the suspension of the use of licences to be used in the best way. Therefore, paragraph 1 states: ''If inspection supervision finds that the authorisation holder deviates from the prescribed rules or procedures or directly endangers the safety of air traffic, the air inspector is required to bring a written solution to the place which prohibits the authorisation holder from working and to submit them to the Directorate in the next 72 hours a reasoned written proposal to suspend the use of the permit to the holder in full or in part. ''So, in this bill, the warrant is something that should be written well, not as a proposal, because the proposal can be adopted or not, and the order is already the final solution of the inspector himself, which will determine that the holder of the permit is deviating from the prescribed rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44910	The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to article 185. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44911	Article 185, last position, says: ''To a solution to suspend the use of the licence appeal is not allowed. ''I suggested that the appeal does not delay the execution of the suspension solution, but the appeal must exist as an institute. Here, Mr. Minister, suppose you go a little bit into the procurement investigation, let's say, those equipment from Vietnam for flight control and find out that, say, a little yellow Führer – Nikola Stankov abused the official position and imported it with a fat commission of that outdated technology. The trial takes place, he gets the verdict, and if this logic were to go, he wouldn't have the right to appeal to the verdict. Then the first-degree verdict would automatically become legal. If that doesn't allow criminal legislation on this side, don't let someone who's been granted the right to appeal. In that case, for example, Nikola Stankov would have to be stuck in jail at that moment. Let the man complain, let him use that last legal remedy. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44912	The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Article 186. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. It's one of the amendments that's just been withdrawn. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 188, which the minister accepted at today's session. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric to Article 189. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 189 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 189 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 189 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic to Article 189. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic to article 191. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. It is also one of the amendments withdrawn at today's session by Mrs Jasmine Milosevic. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 194, which the minister accepted at today's session. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Mr Milan Avramović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44913	The bill states that a member of 198 refers to the duties of Air Force Leader, crew members and other persons. I will remind whoever wrote this response, without any intention of offending anyone, that there is a member of 220 in this bill, which says that the provision of aircraft is a set of measures and human and material potentials that the Air Force provides from the actions of illegal interference. More specifically, acts of illegal interference are considered: violence against persons on board the aircraft, if it can endanger the safety of the aircraft. How can a Air Force leader do that, stop that violence, fight a bully? Furthermore, the destruction of aircraft used in air traffic or such damage to aircraft that could make the aircraft incapable of flying or endanger flight safety. So, one of the duties of Air Force Leaders, crew members and other persons; other persons is an open item, there may be a member of security or a member of any type of organisation that is responsible for air security or security, as you stated in chapter 12, but the duty of Air Force Leader or Officers, those who carry tea and coffee, as counterpart Jasmine said, cannot be. That's why I suggested that the word "security" be deleted. What is even worse, in that simple language to express, is the answer that the proposed amendment is not accepted because it is unclear, given that the word - security in Article 198 is mentioned twice. What difference does it make how many times it's mentioned, it's the same sentence. Also, the material solution proposed in the same Article of the Law is fully in line with the rules of domestic international law, and there is no basis for the powers of the Air Force Leader to be narrowed down by this law. I don't know if this was the Legislative Committee giving an answer or if it was someone from the Ministry. What difference does it make whether international rights or any other basics of domestic or international traffic are established to make air traffic law enforcement powers and duties so that it must be fought as to disrupt peace in the aircraft, I cannot tell the aircraft, because I will break the law, or any other kind of disorder that could endanger the safety of the aircraft. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, this is proof that this is a copy of some law that is certainly not ours, because we didn't have the tradition of being recognizable by the fact that security in our planes is so compromised that we would have to carry out this member and the attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44914	Fifty seconds of Parliament time. The Government has submitted to Article 204 of the amendment. The Transport and Liaison Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 204th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 212 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 214 of the amendment. The Transport and Liaison Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 214th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 215 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 216th of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 219 of the amendment. The Transport and Liaison Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 219th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above Articles 221 and 221. The Transport and Liaison Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 221st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government proposed amendments in Articles 223, 231, 258 and 260 to one amendment. The Transport and Liaison Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric jointly proposed amendments in Articles 223, 231, 258 and 260. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 224 of the amendment. The Transport and Liaison Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 224th Amendment were submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 223 of the amendment. The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44915	It is about the establishment and legal position of the Directorate. In this law, it is intended to be an agency, but given what we have heard so far in this law and all the powers that the Directorate has given itself, the SNS considers that it is much more logical for the Directorate to be just one organisation unit of the Ministry of Transport, that, as such, it would be under the direct control of the Minister and that it would significantly facilitate the position of all legal entities in general and the jobs related to aviation and aviation, as many monopolies would be abolished that would be created in such a way that the Directorate would allow such powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44916	The amendment was submitted to article 234 by MP Dusanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44917	This amendment requires the replacement of the word "go" in the word "control" The word "goit" has no meaning in Serbian, and it is also not exactly translated into English. It is not the first time that foreign words are introduced into a legal act, and what is inadmissible, if clear legal text is sought, unequivocal, and above all applicable in the pig, then it must be taken into account that such failures do not occur. It's clear to me that you've completely adopted English words and that in mutual communication you like to dangle yourself with it, but gentlemen of the experts, this is about a law that everyone needs to understand. The Serbian language is rich in expressions and synonyms and it is not difficult to find an adequate term in Serbian, without bringing your expert reputation into question. All it needs is a translator who speaks Serbian as well as English, whose translation will not be in Google and Jaha, when the English word is simply written in Cyrillic. I think the work is pure language snooze and freedom of our experts, not professional terminology. In this respect, you could look up to the Croats, which each side of the word necessarily translates. You will never find a foreign word or a foreign expression, unless it's a technological paper, and even then they try to translate it in a descriptive way. Obviously, it is a control case, which according to European recommendations differs from inspection, but it should also be in the legal provision. You wrote in response for not accepting the amendments that the amendment is not accepted because the term "go" is common in international regulations governing the area of air traffic. That word shall be given in Article 244(1). The bill replaces the word "check", which is also used in future members of the bill. If it is used both in that member and in the following members, I see no reason why it is not used in Article 234.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44918	The word has a minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44919	Just two questions, at the end of this debate today. Of course, as usual, I'm delighted with all this stuff I've heard here. Believe me, most of these amendments will be one more time for my associates and I to search these two or three days. It's gonna be different on Tuesday. So two questions were dominant, so to speak. The first question was, there are a lot of concerns about it – a functional block. I would like to remind myself that the airspace block is based on operational requirements, which is established regardless of state borders, in which the provision of air navigation services and air navigation functions is optimised, and which is established to achieve maximum capacity and efficiency of the air traffic system. The functional air traffic and airspace block is set up by international contracts. The most important contract that defines most of the things that we have talked about today is a multilateral agreement on the establishment of a common European aviation area of the ECAC, so-called ‘ECAC’. The agreement, and the Republic of Serbia has taken the obligation to start reorganising its airspace into functional blocks or blocks in the first transition period, which was set by this agreement. I note, therefore, that I am here as a personal witness, that the European Commission, which has been in control these days, has assessed that our companies, these two we talked about today, are doing well. The functional block, which is operational, is perhaps the most operational in Europe, the one that controls our Air Traffic Control Agency. That's one question. The second question is the matter of the Directorate. Of course, I also disagree that an unfounded proposal under which the Directorate should be the managing authority of the ministry, because it is precisely the establishment of an independent agency, entrusted as a public authority to carry out the tasks of the state administration in the field of aviation, and a clear distinction between the Ministry of Traffic and the Agency, which is insisted by the European Commission on building administrative capacity in the field of civil aviation. So it has nothing to do with our entry into Europe and when. This is it. Of course, I remind you of the rest of the traffic, my colleague Shami spoke well of it. Imagine now that the railroads, so here's the Roads, if they'd put it all in the Ministry as far as we'd come. Certain actions yes, but this is exactly what's important. You spoke well, there may have been some critical notes about the management of the Directorate, but if there are five ministers, I guess that's good, and I guess that's stronger than being here alone. Let me remind you, in Croatia, I hope that road reform will come very soon, that I will propose, the assembly of road companies, as they call it, is made by a minister. That's where you'll probably fight back. Croatia's highway assembly is made up of a minister. When I suggest it, I'll see if you trust me. That's my experience, too. It's the only way we can do what we put up with. It's a little dyspression. Another very important thing is funding. It is my duty to tell you that the financing of the Directorate and the Agency for the Control of Flights of Serbia-Montenegro is completely transparent. Both the Directorate and the Aviation Control Agency, in addition to the revenues they provide for the provision of services, i.e. to carry out the activities they have been placed in charge, are mainly financed from the fees for flyovers, in accordance with the international obligations and this agreement that I have just read, which the Republic of Serbia has taken over through Eurocontrol. I note that overfly fees are not fees but real costs for services provided that are approved and verified by Eurocontrol. It's nothing new, it's all years ago. The funds resulting from fees for flyovers under these international law rules, which are very strict and whose expenditure under the pre-defined rules can only be used to finance the operations of the Agency and the Directorate. There are earnings, fees for other funds spent, contributions, taxes, operating costs for the provision of these services, i.e. for the education of people, depreciation costs and investment of membership in Eurocontrol. The total revenue of the Aviation Control Agency shall also be entered in the loans approved by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the EIB. Credits are used to modernise and restore infrastructure. Each year in July, Eurocontrol members propose costs, a cost base, or amounts planned for next year's operations, and this is all agreed by October and adopted in November in Eurocontrol. There's no possibility of anyone else. We can't take it, I'd take it, I'd transfer some of the funds to some other projects. He can't. All we can do is get the real costs we invest in controlling the sky over us to use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-08-0.u44920	Thank you, Minister. This is what we've done today's work. I'll continue by Tuesday, 12 October at 10.00 hours, when we start with the questions and notifications from Article 286. Rules of Procedure. Thank you for your cooperation. It was a success.
