ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42640	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask more questions as the People's MP of the Union of Duchy Hungarians, Mr. Prime Minister Mirk Cvetkovic. The issues are about agriculture, the state of agriculture and the elemental disasters in Serbia and Vojvodina. Unfortunately, we know that there have been serious natural disasters in Serbia and Vojvodina in recent weeks. Farmers are in a lot of trouble right now, and only the government can expect help. We know that at the previous session of June 24th, the government adopted the conclusion that it would help all municipalities and areas affected by natural disasters, floods and groundwaters, where not only are houses but even agricultural land underwater. We know that in some municipalities in Serbia, the situation is critical, and this way I would ask about some of the municipalities in Vojvodina. The situation is critical in the municipalities of Kanjiža, Ada, Temerin, Sechenj, Kikinda, Žitište (only some to quote). In these municipalities, it's been raining so much over the past few weeks, it hasn't been remembered in the past 50 years. The houses collapsed in New Montenegro, and in that village, unfortunately, the groundwater entered the well where the drinking water was. In Temerin, some streets were underwater, and so were the cities of Ada and Kikind. I'm interested, as I come from that environment, what the Government is planning through the competent ministries to do in these municipalities and what will happen to agricultural producers not only in these municipalities, but in the entire region of Vojvodina. We know that the Ministry of Agriculture intends to help the farmers whose water has entered the fields to write off their disposal fee. Will the government of agricultural producers, as well as in 2007, release tax obligations and removal contributions? We SVM MPs believe that this will not be enough, but all agricultural producers with flood damage must receive aid and compensation from the state. Unfortunately, they won't have much to live on for a year. What if they sell when they have no fruit on their land at all or have a significantly less than average? Does the Serbian government have concrete goals and moves for them? State Administration and Local Self-Government Minister Milan Markovic promised the municipality of Ub this week 40 million dinars. Can some other municipalities count on such assistance? I'm still interested in what happens to the price of grain and ransom. Do we know the price of cereal? The harvest started, and farmers don't even know the prices today. I'm interested in whether the government intends to help our agriculture at all. I remind you that agriculture is the most important branch of the economy in Serbia, which has strategic significance, and therefore I urge the government to do as soon as possible concrete measures to protect our agriculture. If we don't help our agriculture now, in this situation, then from next year we can expect to import agricultural products rather than export from Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42641	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected chairman, respected Serbian citizens, have since yesterday been upset with the information that the doctors of the Institute of Oncology have been arrested for abuse, bribery and corruption and all that has been happening in the use of cytostatics. I have repeatedly asked the Minister of Health to answer only one question - who provides oncology in Serbia with cytostatics? None of my questions are answered. Yesterday we saw why. The police minister said -- they prescribed more medications than they needed for patients, so that the use of these drugs would be greater, in order to get more money. Too dry, too miserable and too little for what was really going on there. Under a previous agreement with pharmaceutical company representatives, they introduced new and expanded existing indications for their cytostatics, which they obtained through the Republic Institute, thus affecting the increased consumption of cytostatics. To be clear and precise -- said the police minister -- they prescribed more medications than they needed to patients, so that the consumption of these drugs would be greater, in order to get more money. That's not the end of the story. Charges of bribery and corruption are under way. Gentlemen and citizens of Serbia, a murder charge must be filed here. Unfortunately, I am one of those witnesses who will offer his testimony to the public prosecutor, with all the medical documentation possible, that this indictment is extended and that these doctors who have been arrested (and not only these, the circle is much bigger and I will certainly bring those names up) are also charged with organised killing, at least organised killing at the Children's Department of the Institute of Oncology. I owe it to my children who have failed to survive, who have been treated with my child, who I have managed to save only by consulting all the institutes in the world and getting the answer that they are not working properly, or that the abuse of cytostatics is enormous. I saved my child when I stopped treatment. Other parents didn't have that courage. To their children, who have not survived, I owe it to this truth to come out and these people to get the maximum possible prison sentences and that this circle is really closed to all those who have deliberately and deliberately cooperated, because it is an unprecedented organised crime in Serbia, which has not been remembered so far. I think Mr. Health Minister, who gave a very non-chalant statement yesterday that he didn't know it, and for ten years the Minister of Health (and I responsibly argue – not that he knew, he knew very well), today, after all the vaccines and everything else he submitted to the table, he should resign and leave. If it does not do so today, Serbia does not have a health minister, Serbia has no Ministry of Health and I fear Serbia does not have a government that really cares about it at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42643	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42644	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on Tuesday, June 22nd, I used the right, which as an MP I have, to attend the session of the Administrative Committee, even though I am not a member of that committee. There was a discussion, and after the committee members spoke, a dozen, even several times, I answered the question. The chairman didn't give me his word. Furthermore, at the committee sitting in question, which, by the way, had a rather interesting agenda of 12 points, it seems to me, at some point, that a proposal had been made to interrupt the session, which was otherwise open, from me not entirely clear reasons and to continue for a week, June 29th. However, the June 29th session was not held. It is said to be next week, the composition of the members of the Administrative Committee will likely be more favourable for the chairman of the Committee. What I am saying is, in fact, the president of the Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, because it is not just a formal violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a fundamental violation of the democratic rules of the game in Parliament. I do not think that these rules of play, and there are other examples in the Committee's work, are something that is in line with the generally accepted principles of Parliament's functioning and I believe that the President of the Assembly, who, of course, is also responsible for the correct work of the Assembly Committee, must take appropriate steps in this regard. In doing so, it does not matter whether the agenda and certain points of the agenda like this or that ruling party, whether, in the end of the line, they like any opposition party, however, I do not think such a practice is good, regardless of what is being discussed. Of course, it is the right Noah to keep his head in the sand, but that doesn't mean that one day he won't be eaten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42645	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42646	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, me, right away, it's no wonder I don't get answers to the questions I'm asking, but for the sake of the public, I won't give up until things are completely cleared up. I have here three documents relating to Luka Belgrade. Unfortunately, I don't get an answer from the official authorities, but here's to ask another question to the Central Register – the moment he took the data from the provisional register how many actions did Luke Belgrade have? I have here a 2008 document saying that Luka, based on the Agency for Economic Registers' solution, had 6,972,057 actions. Then, I have a document here when the privatisation of Luke Belgrade started (the date of the opening of 13.5.2006, the closing date of 2.6.2006), where it is said to be in traffic 4.270.237. There are no approximately 2,700,000 shares. They're gone. But if you look at the central register of the property structure of Luke Belgrade now, you can see that there are 6,962,434 shares in total. The 2,700,000 shares have gone missing, and now suddenly they're showing up. I'm asking Mrs. Kolundji, since she seems to have received some answers that I haven't, that she's asking this same question, believing that we're finally going to get an answer where the 2,700,000 shares are. If you calculate this data, turn it into euro, the state is damaged by 21,070,262 euros, and so has the Anti-Corruption Council and sent to all state authorities a memo where it has made it known. The shareholders were damaged by 30,541,500 euros, a total of 51,611,762 euros. Luke Belgrade's accounts, according to the 2005 census, contained 42m euros and about 300m euros. Suma sumarum about 100 million euros, my people, and you keep quiet, like nothing's happening. Why doesn't the Assembly get an answer? I'm not asking this question, this is a question that is practically asked by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to state bodies. Why aren't the state authorities responding? Who are they protecting? Protect those who have robbed the property of Serbian citizens in the past ten years. Look at today's newspaper, the weather presents exclusive contracts related to the privatisation of Novosti. Well, that's what I was doing here. But why keep quiet? What do you have to do to deal with crime and to take away the property of Serbian citizens? You obviously won't. You're the ones protecting them. There are about four months since this issue has been raised, and you have persistently avoided giving answers because every answer you give will be accusing of you, because you have made this possible or hidden or do not allow it to be investigated to match those who have allowed such a robbery of the property of Serbian citizens. I ask another question to the public prosecutor – how long will it allow the media in Serbia to have double arches to individual citizens of Serbia? Some are prohibited from mentioning their names until things are concluded by the court's ruling under the new Information Act, and on some, open a media public link, such as SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj and his family, and you accuse him, and you have no proof that what is allegedly true. But that's Serbia, Serbia's double arches, Serbia's first-class citizens and second-class citizens. According to these second orders, everything is allowed, to close them, to lynch them, because it suits you. And, that's the problem, that's what Serbian citizens have to deal with, but you should, first of all, start it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42647	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42648	I would use the time foreseen for asking the question to send a card to the ruling coalition in the election of Aleksandar Tijanic as RTS Director-General and also to ask the prime minister why he has so far done nothing to examine all possible abuses, which, besides LDP, were referred to by other NGOs and expert organisations, because you indirectly enabled him to become again, for the third time, which is also illegal, the director of RTS. On this, I sincerely congratulate you, and what confuses me and scares me the most is a political hypocrisy that you have managed to enthroned one of the biggest enemies, Zoran Djindjic, as director of RTS despite everything he has said about us, about you, about Zoran Djindjic, about Europe, about all of us. Your inertness, reluctantness, refusal to do so and, in the end, indirect support that you have given, because you have made it possible for the Governing Board, which is continuity with the Governing Board of Vojislav Kostunica, to re-elected the director of RTS, relying on the very assessment of what he said about himself, which is that at the place of the director of RTS needs a servant, a slave, who would do for some apartment or money services to the ruling coalition. Given how your predecessors have passed, who have also shown his trust, I sincerely want you to go the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42649	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42650	Before I ask the question, I have to say that I am a living witness of a lot of what Mr. Andric said now, even in person I've heard a lot of things from those mouths he's talking about now, but well, he's sent you a message, so we'll see what happens next. The day before yesterday, the Smedereva City Assembly made a decision that could be precedentd, but in accordance with the Constitution, so I want to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Minister of Local Self-Government and the State Administration – when, if something like this has already been done in Smederevo, will be implemented in other cities and municipalities in Serbia, and when will it be brought into order, concerning the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the corresponding decision of the Constitutional Court, relating to the mandates of the committee? In fact, in Smeder's two council members of a group of citizens, without any court decision, lost their mandate in the way many remained in the previous period. After this decision, the Constitutional Court did not go to any court, but only requested the City Assembly to return their mandates and their mandates were returned. That was voted by the assembly majority, but also by part of the opposition. The assembly majority, by the way, are DS and SPS. They voted it out, they returned these committees to mandates, I repeat, without any decision of any court, means only at their request, which is in accordance with, I am speaking these days, to the European standards, to the Copenhagen Declaration, which many in this country have called upon in the earlier period, and as we see, and to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that, when this issue is resolved, we can really talk about that we have reached European standards in one area and we are working in the way that we expect those whose family we want to be. The question for the minister concerned is – will what was done in Smederev as a precedent, for the first time in Smederev, become a practice, will it also refer to other cities or municipalities in Serbia as an example of a quick and effective solution to this problem, or will it last some more time and burden us all together?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42651	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word to exercise their right under Article 235? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoter Dr Oliver Dulic, the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, also called for the sittings to be attended by: Nemanja Komazec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, Srdjan Jovičić, head of the cabinet of the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning and Milija Djalovic, head of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. We are moving to the 1st point of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Encouragement of the Civilian Industry of the Republic of Serbia in terms of economic crisis (specificities) you have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milić, Judita Popović, Natasa Miæic, Ivan Andrić, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maraš, Kenan Hajdarevic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Maja Laušević, Vladan Jeremic, Dragan Stevanovic, Vladimir Milentjevic, Arsen Đurić, Dobrislav Prelić, Bojana Stanojevic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Pejčić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dejan Mirović and a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia'. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move to a search for the first of the amendments in order, I would like to remind you that representatives of the parliamentary groups under this item of the agenda are the following MPs: Sinisa Stamenkovic – the PUPS parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic – the SPS-JS parliamentary group, Milan Lapcevic – the DSS parliamentary group and Dragan Stevanović – the SRS parliamentary group. I ask the assembly service to inform Minister Dulic that we have moved to the debate session in particular, so he can attend the debate. Members of the 2nd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42652	There is no minister, I guess he took my example and went to congratulate Tianic on his choice. We have proposed to expand the existing Article 2, which lists the objectives of this law and where the reasons why the construction industry in Serbia has suffered such a decline over the past few years. We wanted to extend it by a reason that was most true. We have proposed that one of the basic objectives of this law be to remove the negative effects of applying the Law on Planning and Construction, which the ministry submitted last year. We are sure that the reasons why the construction industry has stopped are not only, although they are the biggest part of the world's economic crisis, but to a much greater extent, the result of an unsustainable law, which the ministry only admits, after a year of unsuccessful wandering, is that it is necessary to change it. We can reason whether it's the administration's fault for disobeying that law or whether it's the Ministry's fault that suggested something that the administration can't meet. In any case, one of the basic reasons is the existing bad Law on Planning and Construction. We hope that the ruling majority will accept this amendment, just as Alexander Tijanic supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42653	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42654	It is good that the government has recognised the intention of the SRS parliamentary club shown by this amendment to clearly define that the application of this law will create preconditions for the creation of new jobs. As it was written in the bill, it could be interpreted that new jobs could but also do not have to be opened, and that is why we have submitted this amendment, so that what has been counted as one of the objectives is considered binding. We had the opportunity to hear, in principle, really devastating data published by the Union of Employers of Serbia and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, which concerns the construction industry and talk about the loss of almost 52,000 jobs in 2009 and the first quarter of 2010. I have to make a comparison with the National Employment Service data from March 5th this year, which says that compared to October 2008, when the economic crisis began, the number of persons on the record increased by 50,000. When we cross-reference this data, we see that the National Employment Service's data isn't complete. It is very possible that all those who remain unemployed and do not report unemployment records, as only in one branch of the economy, nearly 52,000 people are out of work, and the National Service publishes the total data. Other sectors aren't in a better situation either. We know that there were layoffs in both the state and local administration, and only in this process is there are 317 people left in Leskovec, the city I come from, without a job. Otherwise, Leskovac is 41.4% in third place, right behind Novi Pazar, which has 51.1%, and Passwords with an unemployment rate of 41.5%. What I'm talking about is in close connection with the bill we're discussing and the amendment that the SRS Parliament Club has tabled on this bill. When I mentioned Leskovac, I want to point out one problem, which has not been solved for a long time, and there's nothing complicated about it. Namely, the current idea solution of the highway route, i.e. Corridor 10, especially the section that passes through the part of the Gredile ravine and Predejana, is not acceptable because it would bypass that place and the motel, which would directly affect the further continuation of the intensive eviction process from this area. A second project, which is cheaper by fivem euros, has been developed. However, he was not considered by the competent institutes in charge of the implementation of Corridor 10. Otherwise, a billion euros should be invested in a section of Corridor 10 highway from Leskovec to the Serbian-Macedonian border. If there is no change and this share is done according to the current project, this area will have a total collapse, because it is largely abandoned and now. When I say "this end," I mean not only the Predians, but also the Black Grass and the Vlassin Lake. This part would be isolated, instead of taking advantage of one road, which is 25km shorter and is important for the development of tourism in this part, and reduces the path to the Bulgarian border. I am sorry that Mr. Minister is not here to hear that such a single project would have missed the opportunity to save five million euros. Otherwise, in the area I'm talking about once, the construction industry was represented, right after the textiles. Some of the companies involved in high construction also worked on the foreign market – in Libya, Russia and Kuwait. Now, when this law is passed, it is explained that the situation in the construction industry is bad due to the effects of the economic crisis. However, the fact is that most construction firms, as in other activities, have been destroyed in the unfair privatisation process, and many have been systematically brought to bankruptcy because it went with a policy of favouring foreign firms. To have serious problems with foreign companies, the state has warned the Committee on Construction of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce for years back. They argue that since October changes in 2000, foreign donations and loans have imposed conditions for participation in tenders formally eliminated by Serbian construction firms. The tendering for projects financed from loans prescribes the terms of total annual income, reference facilities, guarantee potential and available equipment that domestic operatives can hardly meet. The only thing missing in the tenders is the logo of a company that is known to get a job in advance. Also, on this committee, they mention the so-called. An agent commission for whoever provides the job, and it's three to ten percent. Domestic companies must be satisfied that they will be subcontractors. An example of this is a tender for the construction of a bridge on the Danube near Beska. The best offer was made by the Serbian consortium led by the Bridge, which was disqualified by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Bridge is now working as a subcontractor, while the job has won the Alpin from Austria. Otherwise, since 2001, the company has worked more than 40 projects worth about 400m euros since it was on the Serbian market. The way Por's entered the Serbian market in 2007 is also quite interesting. In 2009, Por participated in 160m-euro projects. The consortium, consisting of this company in 2008, was entrusted with building a bridge on Sava via Ade, and of a total of 118.6m euros, "Poru" belonged to 35m. At the age of 25, Por won the deposit concession in Leskovec and Jagodina. In 2009, he built an asphalt base in the Bubanj stream without a building permit. The Department of Forests at the Ministry did not give consent to the base, nor the City Secretariat for Environmental Protection. Belgrade's Immobilisation Centre has not issued confidence in the formation of a construction plot or a geodetic elaborate. The comment in this company was that the procedure for obtaining approval in front of the competent institutions was ongoing and that the object of temporary character (ordinarily, at a time when the facility worked greatly). Unlawful building of such a facility in their home country Austria is certainly not possible, however, anything is possible in Belgrade. Another interesting thing. The construction site on the Chukaric Glove has been prepared for more than half a year to start building the bridge across Ada Gigania. Most of the workers were Austrians and Germans. An explanation – such a significant undertaking must not be given to anyone who is not professional enough. These are just some of the examples of how discriminated Serbian builders in Serbia, deliberately led to destruction and humiliation. The story is that the global economic crisis is the only one responsible for the bad situation in the construction industry, falling into the water. That is one of the reasons that cannot be put aside, however, these reasons that I was talking about cannot be put aside either. I will conclude by repeating that it is a good thing that this amendment of the SRS parliamentary club is accepted because, when this law is already passed, when projects will be financed from the budget, means the money of all taxpayers, at least let there be a defined obligation to increase employment as much as possible. In the end, I will tell Serbian citizens not to believe everything they read in the paper. I know that citizens realize it's a planned media coup against the president of the SRS and we're asking the authorities to do their job and to get to know the citizens with the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42655	Seven minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42656	Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that the government has accepted this amendment by Lidija Dimitrijevic, because the legal solution she proposes protects workers' rights and reduces the possibility for employers to continue, calling for new legal circumstances, to continue with the dismissal of workers. As proof that this preventive solution is good and necessary, I will remind only that Boris Tadic and Mladjan Dinkic, before the last elections, promised to employ more than 200,000 workers in four years, and that in just two years, their rule in Serbia was out of work between 200 and 230 thousand people. I am taking the opportunity to point to Vlad and Minister Dulic two projects whose realisation would help the Serbian construction industry and, in any case, make it possible to achieve the purpose of this law. Mr. Dulic, the first project (Mr. Minister, I address you; thank you) on which I draw your attention is the reconstruction of the regional road between the Great Plan and the Smederjevska Palanka in the length of 11 km. The road has been in an unbearable state for 20 years. The speed limit there is not necessary at all, because anyone who drives faster than 50 km risks losing points and staying on the road. This time it's been held for years by patching holes. However, the Roads Directorate's inspection has repeatedly established that it is no longer possible to keep the road in service and that its total reconstruction is necessary, including the changing of the entire traffic to a new layer of asphalt. Otherwise, this traffic has been in the reconstruction plans for years, and this year's programme "Serbia", however, each year it ends up according to that people's – a promise of insane joy. This time, by the way, it's very common. It connects two municipalities, Great Plan and Palanca, 100,000 people. Every day, hundreds of workers and students travel from one city to another. In Smederjevska Palanca, there is a central hospital for this area, which is visited daily by several hundred people from the Great Plane. In addition, the road continues one piece towards Mladenov and Belgrade, and another part towards Topoli and Arangelovac. It was also found that most truck drivers heading towards Smederjevska Palanca and central Serbia are using the road between the Great Plan and Smederjevska Palanka as the fastest and closest link to Corridor 10 and the highway. It is a very important fact that most of this road, about 80%, passes through a densely populated town of Bresje, five kilometers long, so it practically represents a street for more than four thousand inhabitants and, as it is, the road objectively endangers the safety of all people living in its immediate vicinity. Otherwise, the reconstruction project is over this time. The Municipality of Velika Plana has done all the preparatory work by its own means, a sewerage network has been done, a regional road company has separated all the necessary facilities that are required by law to participate in this project, so the citizens of the Great Plane and Smederjevska Palanka rightly ask what the problem is, which is why the state has been treating them as the 13th pig in this matter for ten years. A team, as you know, is reconstructing in Serbia the pathways that are far better. The residents of these places are fortunate or unhappy to hold early local elections or are the origin of one of the influential politicians. Another project I want to point to is building a Lozovic loop on the Belgrade-Nish highway. It is a project whose realisation would employ significant capacity of construction operation, but more importantly, it would have an extremely great importance for the development of the entire region. The first to be achieved by building the Lozovic loop would make it much easier to exit the highway for more than 70,000 inhabitants of Smederjevska Palanka, Lozovica, Krnjeva, Milosevic, Saraorac. Also, it would be the shortest road from Pogorec and eastern Serbia towards central Serbia. All this would result in not only a easier journey, but also a significantly cheaper business for several hundred thousand people, and what is most important for us from the Great Plan and the Smederjevska Palanka is that it would, in any case, contribute to the development of these two municipalities. I remind Mr. Minister, he is probably familiar with the fact that the Great Plan Municipality's spatial plan is envisaged, it is also confirmed by the Sustainable Development Strategy and the General Urban Plan, that an industrial zone, a gas station, a motel and similar monitoring facilities are being built on this right side of the highway, from Nis to Belgrade. The construction of the Lozovic loop is also envisaged by the spatial plan of Corridor 10, but I point to the fact that no project documentation has yet been built. True, for several years now, the National Investment Plan has allocated not insignificant resources to produce project documentation, but so far, everything remains a dead letter on paper. So, the project documentation doesn't have anything. Finally, I repeat that the construction of the Lozovic loop and the reconstruction of the regional road between the Great Plan and the Smederjevska Palanka, which, once again I warn myself, would be in an intolerable state of mind primarily for these two municipalities, but also for the whole region, and would enable the engagement of a significant construction operation, thus achieving the purpose of this law. I therefore expect Mr. Minister to respect these arguments (if he has heard them, since he is telephoned) and approves funds for these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42657	Seven minutes and five seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment, the MPs together submitted: Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milić, Judita Popović, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42658	Thank you. For the first time in this article, there is a scandal that will later be discussed in article 5. We have suggested that this member be deleted and let me tell you at least five arguments, which should be sufficient for anyone who respects democracy as a way of regulating to vote for this amendment. First, Article 3: ''In accordance with this law, the Government, on a proposal from the competent ministries, or the competent authority of the unit of local self-government, establishes a list of projects for construction, reconstruction, or adaptation, which is either in whole or in part... ''So, in addition to probably impossible to create a single list at the level of all Serbia, it is simply an incredible ambition to paint the House of Health in Surdulica and a company that will do so under the authority of the Ministry of Belgrade. This kind of centralization is, in addition to the one where the property was taken away by municipalities from the 1990s and some years, I mean the second largest so far. Furthermore, the part of the member that points to potential opportunities for corruption, which is mentioned in vague terms in this article, as ''who have the appropriate experience and references and employ a significant number of workers, i.e. according to their technological capacities... "and all according to the criteria that the government will determine. Why didn't the government decide now? So, one discretionary right is left, which will certainly leave doubt in corruption and arbitration in decision-making. Let's move on, to a provision that is directly contrary to the Public Procurement Act. It's about the fact that only domestic companies can participate. As you know, in the Public Procurement Act, there is an advantage that domestic companies have and, in accordance with international agreements, Serbia has had in the next five years, primarily in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, our great victory, which took place only two or three weeks before a decision was made in the government to break the agreement. So, by this we have the right to retain a certain percentage of the advantages of domestic companies – 15% in the first year, 10% in the second year, five in the third year, if I'm not wrong, and so on for five years. This member directly violates this provision. It's a member who says only domestic firms can participate in this, these are not tenders, these are contracts that will happen. Of course this member is contrary to the CEFTA agreement and I'm sure it's very important here and I'm sure that, although it may sound very nice to demagogue that we only allow our companies to do business with us, believe me, there will be a reaction. If someone forbids our companies to participate, they don't have to build any, in Croatia, Bosnia, Macedonia, England, believe that we too would forbid theirs to come here. Do this, not expect a reaction, maybe not in this sector, but why not in the agriculture sector, in the trade sector... So the reaction will certainly follow, so this measure is not adequate on that side. As a fourth or fifth reason, this is, in fact, destroying competition, which will cause Serbia's citizens damage. It's very simple to determine. Here, the other day, a tender was completed for this part of the highway to the sea, through Montenegro. There were various companies involved in the tender. He won the domestic consortium, if I'm not mistaken (I don't know if the tender's over), and the other one was a company called, I don't understand but, for example, the Construction Osijek, from which I concluded that it was from Croatia. This enabled the lowest price to be achieved. If there is no competition and it is known in advance that the domestic company will receive it by agreement, the money of Serbian citizens will go unintended, without any control. We'll pay more for something the government would pay less for. And that's not the government's private money, that's the money that comes from taxes, from budgets, from various other incomes. So this measure is, in fact, counter-proclaimed to the objectives of this law. This measure is against the interests of Serbian citizens. The other thing is, it's really hard for me to believe. If there is a ban on a business from Finland, if it builds something in Serbia, or from any other country, from America, from Russia, because it will bring thousands of construction workers to Serbia from that country, that they are building in Serbia... Of course these companies will hire our people, for Christ's sake. They'll take some of our subcontractors. No one's going to bring those masons standing on the scales, and what we've been listening to, from China or I don't know from where. Does this mean you won't be building a "Chinese Bridge"? The Chinese Bridge is going to build a company from China. We all saw it on TV. In your last article, you say, "The realisation of the projects that were launched until the date of entry into force of this law will continue under the provisions of this law... '"So now we tell China - not your company. It can't even be formal, it'll only be ours to build. What consequences will that have? Does this mean that Jugorosgas will not be able to build the South Stream (besides Alexander Tijanic, our second favorite theme)? Does that mean Russia won't be able to build? What's NIS gonna do when he reconstructs the facility? The founder of the company is the Serbian government. We see it on TV -- it's building an American firm. It's the most radical against the law. So, the Russians and the Americans joined together to destroy our builders, it happened on TV the other day. I'm a bit of a cartoonist, but the point is, this isn't going to make it any better. In economic terms, any pursuit of autarchy and constipation is counterproductive. The ruling coalition's colleagues know that. It's what you learn in the first year of economy, it's not some expertise. This reduces productivity, the efficiency of domestic companies, leads to corruption, ineffectiveness. And finally, when these companies come out to the European market on 1 January 2012, what do we hope they will be, what will be their ability to compete if more than eagles in America were protected by then? Their ability will be zero. We have this period in history behind us, when the economy was closed. It didn't lead to the strengthening of our businesses, it led exactly to a weakness, and it's a bear service. Of course, we will talk more about it under the amendment to Article 5, but this is the first time that Serbia's legal order is being violated by adjudicating the Public Procurement Act in terms of participation of domestic and foreign enterprises. Later, the law is completely suspended. I have to say, I noticed one more thing. I know this information about the safety of an opposition leader is quite attractive to the media, but it's just amazing for me that the government is proposing to abolish or suspend the Public Procurement Act without any media. That's really amazing. I don't know what the reason is, is the reason "Let's clean Serbia" that went before this as a preparation for this, whether the cause of the competition is Alexander Tijanic, so he won't be a man until it's over, he better not do anything (he wasn't aware of the amount of support he had from the ruling coalition, so he didn't want to risk it). So it's just amazing. This is the destruction of one of the foundations of democracy, and we repeat it. We don't intend to, because the intentions don't matter, in the end. Exclusion of public control from the spending of taxpayers' money is the destruction of the foundations of democracy, and this is the first time we've done it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42659	Six minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42660	You said you were a bit of a cartoon. I have to say that you've caricated a little bit more because you've mixed up and confused a few things, and I'm obliged to tell you the facts regarding this law. First, the aim of this law was to assist domestic operation in the context of the global economic crisis and to find one measure of how to fall in the construction sector, which is undoubtedly caused by the global economic crisis and only by the global economic crisis because there is an obvious crisis of demand and private investment, to overcome the fact that we will succeed in state measures to maintain employment or allow new jobs to be opened in the construction sector. And the day before yesterday, in the debate in principle, I repeated several times – the only way we can save the construction sector is for the state to become an investor. There's no other way. And I have to say, as a kind of criticism to you, that I've never heard of what else that can be done to save the construction sector. What is the measure that the state, which has to intervene, can do to save the construction sector. So you didn't offer an alternative. You offered to criticise everything we wrote here and we are, of course, ready to debate it. In that criticism you brought out a few things that absolutely do not stand, and I will try slowly, at the beginning of this debate on amendments, to explain and explain how we think we are helping. First, when the economic crisis started, many economists went into the debate that we as a state should react to the economic crisis. The parallels were withdrawn with other countries that are acting in one way now and tried to find an answer from the global economic crisis that happened in 1929 in 1929 and which also led to the collapse of the global economic order. It was then seen that mistakes were made in America and it was tried to find measures that would not be repeated in response to the US government then, in 1929. We then heard from liberal economists that the only answer to the global economic crisis is not protectionism, not trying to save domestic businesses, but rather, as much opening as possible, as much liberalisation as possible – let what is wrong fail, the market will determine it. As an effect, we in real life have hundreds of thousands of people left out of work. At this point, we can't take it anymore. We as a state can no longer bear the social consequences of this approach that nothing should be done, that the state should not intervene, that the state should not use its resources to help private businesses, that they should be left to the market, let what is wrong die. It's an approach that you're obviously advocating here. If all the countries in the world had applied that measure, I would find it justified that you today criticise this government for its use, but no single country in the world has applied that measure. Each country has made every effort to protect its capacities primarily in terms of economic strengthening or at least the survival of this crisis. You have seen huge state interventions in almost all countries of the world – subsidies for the purchase of domestic products, State intervention in the private sector, which is measured by thousands of dollars or euros. So you saw something that was an attempt by every government in the world to try to protect its economy. We are now doing this in a very sensitive and very specific sector, which is the construction sector, because the construction sector depends solely on investor relations in the construction sector and on the demand ratio that implies the purchasers of these goods produced by the construction sector. It's mostly apartments and business spaces, which unfortunately aren't here today. At this point, we have millions of square meters of flats and business spaces that run empty and cannot be sold precisely because of the effects of the global economic crisis. Our attempt doesn't come down to us from a construction operation at the moment creating a sector that will be enriched through this project. No, he won't get rich. Because the prices that will be defined through the procurement process, which will be implemented in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, and I will talk about this later, will lead to the best possible price. Now we can argue and talk about how you see it that we're destroying the system when we absolutely respect everything that is the public procurement process, which is defined here, except for one thing, and you're right here. We have said – this is a programme that is limited, which is limited and which exclusively implies that domestic enterprises can participate in it. It's true that we deliberately put domestic companies in place, and I can possibly accept criticism, and you're right there, but that's exactly what this government is doing, trying to save a domestic operation. You're saying that the whole system is going to be built so that a kind of centralization happens in the decision-making process. Now I'm gonna tell you what the whole program is going to look like, so tell me where the centralization is. We sent a public call to the banks and sent a public call to local self-government to report their projects. Any local self-government that has planned funds in its budget for the reconstruction, adaptation or construction of any building facility that implies this law shall submit a request to the State for co-financing from this project. Then one inter-resor working group takes into account the importance of the project in terms of the local community, but much more estimates of how much this project will engage construction operations. So a list of projects is being created that can be financed from a pulse of funds that we can join together as a state along with banks. At this point, the amount of pulse funds is around 180m euros. So at this point, we have about 180m euros to pump into the building. It's the only centralization, if you call it centralization, when local self-governments propose a list of projects, and we tell them -- these projects can be funded, and these projects, unfortunately, we can't finance this year. It is the only centralisation that exists, i.e. making decisions at the central level. We don't get into what local self-government will participate in this program, we don't get into what local self-government projects will send, we don't get into whether it's important for them to build a school, kindergarten, kindergarten, pool, apartment. It doesn't matter to us, it's important to us that these projects employ as many people as possible. Then there is a whole decision-making process, which will mean that local self-government, when provided by the state, enters into a negotiating process defined by the Public Procurement Act. Now I'm going to quote to you members of the Public Procurement Act and you tell me what's been broken except for this thing we talked about, which is that only domestic companies can participate in these other things, that we have abolished the suspension fact of the complaint with the Commission for the Protection of the right of the bidder. And we can also talk about why we did it, because so far experience tells us that we can't proceed urgently if we have a suspension fact. So we took that as an argument. We could say, as Government, - the global economic crisis and the situation in construction is like a flood or a slide. We can apply Article 7. The law on public procurement, which defines the purchases to which the law is not applied at all. Therefore, the Public Procurement Act predicted that there are situations in which the law is not applied and in which there is a direct guessing without any procedure. Point 3) says: "For the purpose of providing basic living conditions in cases of natural disasters, other accidents or hararium, in accordance with the regulations governing the protection against such accidents, accidents, or hararium". So, the government could say -- this is one elemental accident, we're not going to apply the Public Procurement Act at all, here's the money and build it for you. No, we didn't do it. We insisted that there be a procedure, because, to be honest, and we want to protect our legal order, and we want to ensure that the market has the opportunity to oust the cost of costing it to the best possible. Here I am reading to you the procedure that we have foreseen and which you are criticizing, which is a negotiation procedure without publication of a public call in Article 24. The law on public procurement – if, because of the exceptional urgency caused by emergency circumstances or unforeseen events, whose performance in no way depends on the will of the contracting authority, the contracting authority was unable to act within the time limits set for open or restrictive proceedings, this Article shall apply. I'm just describing the situation in which the country is located. Therefore, emergency circumstances or unforeseen events whose performance in no way depends on the will of the client. We were unable to influence the course of the global economic crisis, nor were we to blame for what happened. And we are just because it exists as a possibility in the Public Procurement Act, we apply this procedure. So we respected the procedure and this procedure does not mean that there will be no competition on the market. As soon as this law is passed, we will pass two regulations. One regulation will define the criteria that construction firms must meet to participate in different types of projects. These criteria will form a register of companies that can participate in this programme, which will have to be sorted by the type of work, whether it is housing, canalisation, molecular works, reconstruction, adaptation, road construction, etc., then the size of the work, whether they are able to build 20,000 squares, 1,000 squares, or 100 squares, and a third thing – the location where these companies are located. We intend to create a list of companies that meet the criteria and can participate in this programme. Contractors, which are local self-government, will be obliged, and it says very nicely in this law, to send a public invitation to all contracting entities that meet the conditions defined by these criteria, to report to it. There won't be a chance that some president of the municipality will agree with his best man to paint the school there. It will be obliged to make a call, i.e. to enter into a negotiating procedure with all the companies that have applied for the programme. And, as a supercontrol of all that, we brought two things. One thing is that we have defined the maximum, or minimum price when it comes to housing, because it can be determined. The second thing, each of these projects will eventually have to (and you call it centralization, and I'll call it supercontrol) to come before one commission, which will say – the creation of a school in Lebanon can't cost two million, regardless of how he conducted the public procurement procedure as defined by the law, it can cost about 100,000; if you gave over 100,000, I'm sorry, we approved that project, but you gave you the wrong price and that project won't be. We've done everything to make it, on the one hand, the possibility of local self-government entering projects. We will help them with money under very favourable credit conditions, which will mean a favourable interest rate and payment for eight years. We've made it possible for all the companies to participate and every company that wants to participate will have a month to apply to that register, to run for participation in this programme. In the end, we introduced supercontrol, so that someone doesn't make a deal at an excessively high price. In addition, there will be control defined by the Public Procurement Act. So we've completely circled everything that's necessary to make sure this project works. If he's gonna make it, we can't know at this point. What is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, which is the issue of housing, be sure it will succeed. And be sure that through the setting of maximum, or minimum prices, and through the possibility that now with the Army, through the Serbian Building Directorate, we will buy more military land and build on it, in this year we will start several large construction sites, such as "July 4" or "Stepa Stepanovic", on which about 560,000 squares will be built very quickly. So we're ready to launch a construction operation and help builders get out on the ground. Who's going to build it? They're going to build our businesses. That's the answer to the issue that appears in the media, that the state is now seeking to build, will ruin the private construction sector because the state wants to build. The state has no capacity to build. There are no more big state-owned companies that are able to build. All major construction firms are private, there are owners and the state will hire them to work at the prices we're going to specify here. I repeat, this is not a measure that will allow investors who have been mentioned so many times in a negative light because they hold high prices of squares to earn even more money. This is the measure that will help construction companies, mollers, carpenters, carpenters, builders, army workers, so people who do construction work, who do construction work, finally get out on construction sites. This measure is good and this measure is only possible. Please tell me now, in this debate, what are you suggesting? Liberalization? Let everything that's wrong die? What do we do, it's a crisis, but who's not liquid and who's not good, should die? Let me tell you something, then at this point almost 80% of the construction operation meets that criterion, and we, thanks to the global economic crisis, are going to lose our construction operation. Is that supposed to happen? We don't think so. We think we need to do something and do it through this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42661	The People's MP Ivan Andric has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42662	Please, Madam Chairman, that the next time he accuses one parliamentary group of wanting everyone to die in the construction industry, somehow you draw attention that such things are not done in the Assembly, because they culminated in the end of the security. But now it's not a topic. Mr. Minister, looking at the faces of these colleagues of yours from the ruling coalition, I think you've confirmed what you just said. Now I don't know exactly where we don't understand each other. I don't understand. Are we in favour of a wooden fair country? It's really even too low for me to answer your question right now. Of course not. There's nothing like that anywhere in this world you've been talking about for 70 years. But let me tell you something, when we talk about the causes of the global economic crisis, I really think it deserves a slightly more serious approach. If Serbia were to do what the United States is supposed to do, believe me, it's a lot more ridiculous than I'd be able to tell any joke right now. Our country depends on foreign investment, Mr. Dulic. If they are not there, three to four billion a year, Serbia cannot grow. But I say it this way only on the side, it's hard for me to think about it probably the same as if I were to have a little bit of an orthopaedic procedure with you. As far as centralization and evaluation are concerned, it's corruption. Some people will sit and make some judgments on a list and decide who has priority, who doesn't, whether they sent it to the SPS, "New Serbia", Jagodina, who's mayor, what he's doing, whether he'll vote for something in the Assembly, so if he meets it, then he'll be able to be on the list. That's your choice, Mr. Dulic. Not you personally, but the ruling coalition chooses the judges of the Constitutional Court. By having one Sulja, so he has to have Rasim, so it doesn't matter what he did at a private firm as a lawyer, it doesn't stop him from having the ambition to be the Constitutional Court judge. So that's how things work, whether we, or anyone, trust you or not. This is how it is done in this country – whoever and how many parties there are, there are so many firms, these mayors will get projects. We have no right, Mr. Dulic, to say - whether this project will succeed, we will see. Unfortunately, responsibility is much greater. The time will pass, the money will be spent. The consequences are enormous. We can't settle for that. We know this isn't gonna be good. That's what we told you about the Law on Planning and Construction, and what's the effect today? From one mistake, get into another. So we're supposed to expect you to enter a third, so that in the end, we all enjoy that you won't be a minister again. We don't care about that. As for the elemental accident, I think your explanation is quite scandalous. You said that only in a way that domestic companies participate in breach of the Public Procurement Act. That's not true. So, a negotiation procedure is applied without publication of a public call. It's corruption. There's no flood, no urgency in terms of the Public Procurement Act. (President: three minutes. People's MP, replica time has been used. Thank you. If I can finish my sentence...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42663	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42664	I'd ask you not to use things that might be offensive because of the lack of arguments. First of all, I'm proud to be orthopedic. And, let me tell you something, I don't know what college you're in, I might remember since we've known each other since college days, but I've graduated with my orthopedic specialty from three of your colleges. Don't underestimate my profession and my ability to control any system. I can't wait to discuss another amendment, where you LDP people see the problem in the Planning and Construction Act. I can't wait to hear your arguments and ask you – what's the problem with the Law on Planning and Construction, except maybe where your people sit and apply it? I've prepared to tell you how the law applies everywhere everyone else sits, and position and opposition. It's applied quite solidly. I can also tell you how much the Ministry is able to apply the provisions of the Planning and Construction Act. So you have a problem with the law just because where your people are sitting there's some misunderstanding, there's no good will to apply the law or there's a need to keep the construction sector. That's what we can talk about. So, I'm waiting, when we start talking about the Law on Planning and Construction, you tell me very clearly and duly what's wrong with that. Until then, all this stuff you said, I repeat, it's not true. The negotiation procedure without publication of a public call is provided for by the Public Procurement Act and circumstances are provided for when applied – if due to the exceptional urgency caused by emergency circumstances or unforeseen events, whose performance in no way depends on the will of the contracting authority... We have interpreted and I am sure that anyone who listens and watches this can say that this is exactly the circumstance that happened to the construction sector in Serbia and this negotiation process can be applied. This still does not mean that all other members of the Public Procurement Act are not applied. There's also control, there's a procedure that implies a market price, there's everything that exists. We added to that that there is state control, it must exist, but in the sense that we will not accept that a project is implemented where the price is agreed above what will be estimated. So we've done everything we can to make this project work and that there's control. You can call it centralization, that's fine. Speaking of state interventions, no state has allowed its economic system to collapse in this crisis. Each country has deviated from the otherwise declared principles of a liberal economy that is now dominated by the world. Every country has done it. That's what Germany did, that's what America did, that's what the foundations of liberal economic understandings from which we learned how to organize our economic system. And when I say "let everything that's wrong die," of course I don't mean physically, I mean in economic terms. Why didn't America let all these strong banks, which depend on the economic stability of a country here, but with state money, citizens' money, intervened in the private sector to save it all? We, of course, at a much smaller level (maybe not comparable, but it is understandable) have to intervene because we see our construction sector as the vital branch of our industry, which depends on and how the prosperity of our economy depends. That's why we intervene. This is a measure that is limited, it will have an end to its fact. At this point, we think this is the only way to help.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42665	The People's MP Ivan Andric has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42666	Very short and least important. I deeply respect the orthopedic profession, which is very important first, but I deeply doubt when orthopedics deal with the economy. And that's my right. On the other hand, Mrs. Komic, really, we listen here to the reasons of the global economic crisis and their interpretation in terms of justifying something that destroys the foundations of democracy, it is an insult to the Assembly. Neither America, Germany, England, Luxembourg, or Belgium, nor any civilized country has abolished public control in the process of spending citizens' money and justified the global economic crisis. None of them said - the global economic crisis is like a flood, so now we're going to spend money on how we think of it. You used the words floods and elemental disasters. None of those countries have done it. You're replacing thesis. We are not against the protection of the domestic industry, that protection already exists in the Public Procurement Act. What we don't understand is that you didn't do anything for two years, and then you came and told us – it takes urgency, fast, quick. And because it's fast, then we're shutting down the procurement procedure. Now, we tell you - the problem is in your intention, not in the Public Procurement Act, since others can build under the Public Procurement Act and it works. Is control necessary? Of course. Does he have it today? He's got it. Are you saying that the state today is not restoring any schools, no home of health, no hospital? Didn't they start working on "Gazelle"? Didn't the highway work start? What does the public procurement process have to do with it? So it could be somewhere, and it can't be somewhere. Now, we tell you - because you couldn't do it somewhere, you centralized it and made an assessment so that, as our people would say, you could fool around. You're accusing us of the Law of Planning and Construction not working where our people sit. Where our people sit, yours sit, and your opinion are common. The law is bad, and so are you. That's what you blamed the administration for. You set a goal for each of them to be four metres high, so since it is not high, it is their fault. Is that what happened? And it wasn't your fault that you asked them to be so tall. Mr. Minister, your decisions are not decisions from the time we were together in the Resistance. They have serious consequences today. One of the consequences is that, regardless of what you deny, the law, in addition to the global economic crisis, has affected the collapse of the construction industry in Serbia. And that's not our isolated opinion. It's the opinion of anyone who deals with it, at least five percent of their time. Will the solution to the global economic crisis be to suspend public control in the process of spending money? He won't. It has nothing to do with the cause of the global economic crisis. Arrogance and the way it's spoken of, insulting us, won't make you right...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42667	Three minutes, you've used time for replication. The minister doesn't want a word. MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42668	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dulic, let's put this in a more serious context than you're trying to keep us. You mention the global economic crisis, the reactions of other countries, and I ask you why we have been living in the country for two years and working in Parliament, which is the only address on the planet on which the government has not appeared with a plan and concrete measures that will respond to the economic crisis in the country? Do you know how much, if you're talking about America, Obama held public gatherings where he promoted his economic crisis resolution program in America? Three hundred gatherings were held before the Congress of the Programme declared itself. You've come here with six members of the law, to tell us two years after the crisis that the crisis is a natural disaster, and that's why it has to act that way. An elemental accident is the explosion of volcanoes in Iceland, a slide in the Shop, a flood in Zajecar. An elemental accident is not the collapse of the construction industry. I don't think it's fair to tell our MP group we didn't suggest anything. I personally sent you a proposal to amend the Law on Planning and Construction, a proposal for our provision to specify the procedures and sublegal acts that appear to be a more effective Law on Planning and Construction. Two years ago, we proposed to this assembly a comprehensive package of measures "Responsible to the Crisis – Agreement for the Future". I handed this over to your Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic in November 2008. As part of this programme, which we have proposed and run for you, not as the Holy Scriptures but as an initiative that we can discuss, we have also proposed measures to help the construction industry. What were those measures, Mr. Dulic? Not this kind of politics, not this kind of nonsense, because you don't have banks to fund this. Two days ago, 17% of this country's values were sold on the market. No one believes in this country's ability to organise economic policy anymore. We asked that the state not charge VAT to the hiring companies if it didn't pay the service first. You submerged the Bridge. I don't mean you personally. The state submerged the Bridge. She submerged the planet. Over 150m euros are the debts of the state towards the construction industry. Pay back your debts. Put order in those procedures. That's what the state can do. Second question - competitiveness. Competitiveness is the exclusive jurisdiction of the Republic Government. The construction industry can't become more competitive than itself. Serbia has become Chernobyl. The economic climate in Serbia is the same as the climate in Chernobyl - contaminated. What can the government do about it? He has to bring new political measures to change his policy. Join NATO, so the level of credit risk burden will be lower. We'll get the World Bank's IDA standards. Then those investors who don't come to this country will show up because they know there's no order. When they see how we treat Russian partners, they think we'll treat them. If the ones we love are so deceived, how are we going to treat those we don't love at all? It's government policy, Mr. Dulic. If we are talking about the concrete effects of this law, then I must warn you, Mr. Dulic, that we do not know who wrote the law, that a working group was formed, that this working group was formed by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. When did this task force meet? Don't let me read right now who her members are. When did she meet? With six members of the law to answer the problem of the construction industry? That's impossible. You said it was extremely urgent, so it has to work. Well, that's been going on for two years. What's the name of what happens today, and he's looking for a reaction right now? How is it that it's been extremely urgent for two years? We are here in the Assembly, it was last year, by emergency procedure, passed a law that will enter into force in 2012, the Chamber of Commerce Act. We're not your opponents. We want to make a deal with you, Mr. Dulic. None of yours and ours. There are neither mine nor the Gilas's in the Secretary for Urbanism of the City of Belgrade. There are professionals, it's access to LDP. What's the problem with all that? In that the order in that secretariat is different from that in other local self-governments. Which they can't interpret the laws, because in Belgrade it's millions, tens of millions of dollars that monitor investment based on someone's interpretation. The law is not interpreted at the level of local self-government, it is applied. I said it was a 15-16 version of that law. It's not just your law, I know it very well. In this law there is a lot of populism and demagogy and a desire to send a message to the public – if there is no work, there will be justice. At least I blame you for the bad effect of that law, I object to your government. Where is Mirko Cvetkovic today? What is more important to him than the investment project 180m euros? Belgrade had to be in debt last week to continue its projects, it has no money, it has run out of income based on a construction site fee, you know that very well. You know, in Novi Sad, that's the same problem. What's it all about? It is true, the international economic crisis also affects, there is no more money than there has been, but the crisis has only fuelled our internal domestic weaknesses, indeterminateness, large confusion. You say the state shows up as an investor. Where was the country a good investor and a good employer? Of 590 public companies, 585 operate with a minus. What kind of employer is the state in the field of electricity when 60 billion dinars are owed to it? What's that? The masons, the carpenters, the painters, the carpenters, it's all absolutely fine, but that, Mr. Dulic, is not the construction industry, and you know it very well. The construction industry is private investors, those with good management, knowledge, the energy needed to employ these people. Where there are no private investors is chaos. That's why our construction company has been bankrupt for 15 years, so there's no more... Not to list all these construction companies, you know very well what fate is. The country that once won international tenders, coming from the communist system, respecting the most rigorous criteria and standards of the Western world, came in a position not to build a bridge across the stream as a contractor, but as a subcontractor. I agree that we should help our construction industry, I agree that we should be smart, we are ready and together to take risks for the difficult decisions we make, but there is no demagogy. Timothy Geitner said at the end of last year, yes, citizens, we invested $800 billion of your money, profit is 52 billion, this country has earned 52 billion. When General Motors thought he could do the old one, he went bankrupt, went bankrupt. And we give 300 million every month to Bor, so Bor can do the old one. We're going to open factories, we're going to hire people, and we're going to take over the failed privatized companies, and we're going to be new owners. That's not gonna happen. This law will only put you and the government in a difficult position, and it will be a problem for us too, because in this chaos that you create we are trying to find the basis to protect and support you, because this government is much better than any other alternative that stands against it right now. If we're talking politics, Mr. Dulic, you've destroyed the central bank (I'm only talking about a few final procedures) and every banker in this country knows that, but there's no answer to the question – what force has forced the governor in his resignation to come here and propose a law denying everything he's done for years? How did we choose the Constitutional Court judges yesterday? No one in this congregation today can mention the names of the candidates. Your law is six members, and your candidacy for the Constitutional Court is six and a half rows. The Director of Public Service has been elected. More transparency was in voting for the winner of the "Farme" than in the election for the director of the Public Service. In the end, we get a message that the government will define the criteria by means of a regulation. We're interested in why the criteria aren't in the law. That's what we're trying to do for you. Because when it comes to the government, then you know how it will be, as it was in judicial reform - and where my judge is. As was the case when it was voted on the anti-discrimination law – I cannot, let the LDP vote. We can't track it and we can't support it. We see in this a worrying trend beyond your ministry's jurisdiction. What is what we suggested as an alternative to that? Take the procedure one step back. Sit down and talk to the construction industry. Talk to the Minister of Economy. Talk to the Treasury Department. See if it's possible to implement tax reform, if it's possible to oblige the state to pay those who work for it. If he can't pay them, don't let him charge them that companies are in a state that isn't able to pay them. Anyone who gets into business with the state, pays VAT immediately on the invoices he's issued, and then waits two or three years for the state to answer that bill with the money he's going to pay him. Over two or three years, he's down, he can't withdraw his loans, he can't modernise his technology, he can't pay his wages. If we're talking about Belgrade, there's a lot of problems in Belgrade. The skeletal system, which needs reforming. Change the Department of Urbanism from the roots, separate the Big Investments Sector, the Citizenship Sector, the Individual Projects Sector. Depolitize him. We sent professional people there. No LDP official sits in the Department of Urbanism, but there are people who have our full professional support. For what? Because they do what others do in other places. When we took over the management of Belgrade Road, we chose the director in a public competition. None of us knew him. He inherited a two billion dinar debt company. After a year, with a 30% lower budget than the last year's budget, he paid back all his debts and ended his business year with a plus of 800 million dinars. These are the effects of one policy. We can't compare Belgrade to some local self-government you're quoting. I'm telling you, the Directorate took a 60 million loan, no income. The square meter is terribly expensive, and that's due to the measures you've taken. We have to cut it, we can't cut it, we can't cut it, we can't cut it. It can't be transition and justice. Transition is not a process in which justice is imperative. The transition must be fair and efficient, and by justice – in church. That's what your role model used to say. There's no justice in this life. Where is justice in everything that happens to us every day? Don't let politicians offer people justice, let the patriarch do it, let the mufti do it, let the bishop do it. We need to be effective. There's no efficiency in this. Who's following you in this? Who supports it? What kind of public debate follows all this? You will address local self-government. They're incompetent, you know that very well. We cut their budgets 15% last year and we still have to cut it. What projects can they run for? Renovate schools, rebuild hospitals, rebuild bridges, rebuild roads. It's all so small towards these 180m euros. System-wide reform, new policy, new economy. The Prime Minister here and all the ministers here. The truth is to be told to the citizens of Serbia. A country that gives 30 percent of its GDP for pensions has no future. A country that covers its GDP with 15% of exports. Mr. Dulic, you're orthopedic, it's like a man without both of his legs who wants to run at the Olympics. With such references, the country must cover 70% of its GDP, not 15%. We stepped into the market economy, so we saw that we didn't like it, and then we ran off into a deal. And that's what everybody's into. This was good for those who became tycoons through Serbia's Kosovo, and by 2003 they were businessmen who normally met with the representatives of the authorities, so they were welcomed by the agreed economy in Kostunica's era when they agreed on everything, and now they are seeking the love of the citizens. They're looking for the love of the citizens because they took the mattresses to the Shop for three million, and on the other hand, the president of the state and you all are looking for their solidarity with him. We don't need that. We don't need someone's bridge to lead the thirsty across the water. Clear system. The businessmen want a strong dinar – they have to work harder. Let them say what their programs are. Let the rotten construction companies go to waste. What do we need them for, Mr. Dulic? The companies from Germany will not bring their workers, but will hire those who work here. He'll bring in new technologies. Don't accuse us like that. There's nothing personal about what we're saying. If we hadn't reacted so many times, then you'd have the right to say so. We said in 2008 – targeted inflation 2%, freezing wages and pensions. At that time, the salary in Serbia was 450 euros, as well as in Montenegro, as well as in Republika Srpska. Today, wages in Serbia are 300 euros, and in Montenegro and Republika Srpska there are still 450. We do not burden you with some of our own personal policies and approaches, but all the time we point to systemic indifference. You can't react to such deep structural problems with an ad hoc measure. You must step out of the sphere in which you are as government. There is no justice, Mr. Dulic, in privatising construction land. America was made by everyone moving with a gun every morning, so whoever gets there first is his. I don't stand for it today in Serbia in the 21st century, but I stand for order. I'm betting that someone pays the tax, that someone has the right to strong institutions, to a stable state, to a clear system, and to measures that don't depend on you or me. I have the right to speak for 15 minutes and, if you don't like what I've said so far, I'm sorry. This has exhausted the possibility of participation in the debate, and therefore this is our contribution to resolving the economic crisis in the country. Your six members are like our 15 minutes, and let the builders stick to the scales.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42669	The LDP Group has seven minutes and 40 seconds at its disposal, and you, as president, have taken advantage of your time. The debate area is not exhausted, but has a word for Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42670	Which, of course, encourages a debate because I think it's very important that we say everything we have. This is a great speech by a parliamentary group and a man who has been relieved of the burden of responsibility to provide concrete answers to specific problems. You said a few things that are absolutely standing and that are very well theoretically processed – let everything that is wrong fail, some others will come, and they will bring something new. But at this point, we have an objective problem that the construction sector is dragging us to a failed economy, and if we don't act and react today, in 2010, we will have something that will be a serious consequence of the whole country's economy. So we have to react. It is estimated that the building must be saved. When we look at statistics that show economic trends, in April we had 11% growth in industrial production compared to April 2009. The construction sector is in total chaos, it has a 23% decline, with the high-building sector about 50%. I'd like to agree on one thing. Even if the Law on Planning and Construction is wrong, as you claim, the city of Novi Sad is as important to me as it is to investment as the city of Belgrade, and in Novi Sad the building permit is obtained in less than two months thanks to the Law on Planning and Construction, but thanks also to the fact that people there have done the necessary spatial plans and all necessary urban plans and that there is an administration that is much faster and much more efficient and understands the essence of the law. I can tell you about a few other cities where there are also building operations, where you can get a license, as can be given permission at the Ministry. So here we are talking about helping the city of Belgrade to issue permits faster and we need to work together, but it can't be done by what you're going to say – it needs to change the Law on Planning and Construction and then send proposals. Some of them are absolutely standing. There's a lot of things that can still be fixed, I agree, and I said, let's talk about it. But the horror of your remarks is about conversion. Tell me how removing the possibility that land conversion will be charged will solve the problem of the construction sector. I'm sorry, that's not true. So we have huge problems that are much less related to the administration of the construction process, and much more are related to the absence of investment. Let me also say one piece of information I got from Belgrade today. 250 legal permits have been issued for construction under the old law, people have not gone to the construction site. Why didn't they come out? Because there's no demand for business spaces and unfortunately there's no demand for apartments. So we have a huge problem that our citizens, on the one hand, need apartments, and on the other hand, prices are unsuitable and they can't be credited, they have the fear of being in debt at a time of global uncertainty that rules the whole world. We have to act in a way to save the thing. One measure, among other things, is that the state as an investor is moving to build apartments that will be competitive and will lead to market fluctuations. It is one of the measures we will work and we will work not only in Belgrade, but also in other cities. You have asked the question – what have we done and what have we been waiting for? First of all, we faced enormous debts left by someone before us. The government alone had to repay 340m euros in debt left by the previous government. In addition to the economic crisis, in addition to the huge problems facing our economy, we first had to pay back our debts to the road to save the road sector. It's a verifiable fact and each of you can see whether it's true or not. At a time when there was much more money, when there were privatisations, when there were foreign investments that were much bigger, when there was an economic boom in Serbia, and it wasn't an economic boom because Vojislav Kostunica was prime minister, on the contrary, it was an economic boom that was related to the processes that were happening in this society, the government left us with debts. We had to pay back those debts, and so did many other debts. When you say the state owes, and it is true that it owes, most of the debts are related to public enterprises and, which is a much bigger problem, local self-government. Local self-government had to cut their budgets because of the effects of the global economic crisis and because we had to redefine our budget because of the measures we signed with the IMF, local self-government also have to bear part of that burden and are unable to service their debt. That's true, but how can you solve it now? At this point, it's impossible to pump money into local self-government to repay previous debts. At this point, we're only thinking about how to give the builders money to start working and to get their own operation in this year and next. It's our idea now. When you talk to a commission, it's not a commission, it's a construction relief task force. We were meeting, of course, and I think you have the wrong information. A few months almost every week I have contact with a construction operation. Let me tell you right now, it's none of my business. The construction sector is one of the sectors of the economy. I have consciously accepted that I am in construction as an economic branch because I want to be open to help our businesses. Three groups of problems have been defined. First it's tax policy. There, among other things, should be discussed with the finance minister, which is why VAT is paid in advance, not after the end of the situation. It's a huge problem that burdens the construction sector today. Another problem is the debt the construction sector has to the banks today. There, too, the state must react and intervene through some kind of fund, which will be a guarantee fund for construction enterprises that, under the conditions of a construction boom in 2006, 2007, in 2008, when large investments existed, were in charge of buying construction operations and materials. How does this hypertrophysed construction industry survive this difficult period? Among other things, the state will help them reprogramme these loans. But again, it's a process that involves the state's conversation, on the one hand, private construction companies, on the other hand, and private banks, on the third hand. You know very well how many states can have an impact on banks. He's very small. It's one set of problems we want and we have to solve it. The third problem is the debt of the state. All three of these problems have nothing to do with this measure we're working on today. We still have a lot of problems to solve. This law today is just one measure that needs to help the construction industry. I was talking about three large sets of measures we also need to take care of. You asked where we were so far and why we didn't react. In the last year and a half, the government has tried to intervene several times, believing that the global economic crisis will last much shorter. No one has been able to assess the effects of the global economic crisis since October 2008, when it started, until today, until 2010, when it is still going on and unfortunately only now leaves consequences for some of our sectors. In order to increase the demand for housing, we brought state subsidies to purchase apartments, which allowed citizens who used these subsidies to actually buy apartments on very favourable terms, to reduce the interest rate in banks. We brought in a programme of measures that meant subsidising project funding of 7% by the state. This project, thank God, works and what is being done at the moment, is mainly done thanks to this project. We've brought subsidies for the purchase of domestic construction material. We have tried to intervene on the side of demand and on the side of the offer, believing that we will also intervene with these interventions, but also with recovery, above all, European economies, have effects and that someone will come here to build and invest. We have first indications, because the first big investors to come to build, and that's good news, but it's certainly not enough to save the entire sector of our construction operation on the whole country's territory. We have one absurd, and that is what is the real danger of this law, and I would like to talk about it, that we will have a huge disproportionate number of projects that will come from cities that today have money and cities that don't have money. We may not be able to help the entire construction operation because that operation that operates on the territory of small poor municipalities will again be denied. And that's one of the problems we're trying to look at, how to help regions that didn't plan any investment funds in their budgets. So that's the problem. What I said was the measures we did. Everything else you said, Mr. Jovanovic, is really a story for the prime minister and the economy minister. You have general objections to economic policy. Please take the opportunity when the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy come here to give you concrete answers. You can charge me and insist on my responsibilities only in those areas where I work. I'm glad we'll talk later about the Planning and Construction Act. I can't wait to hear what it was in the Law on Planning and Construction that led to the construction sector falling into the problems it had fallen into, and it started falling since October 2008. I would like to see what is in the Law on Planning and Construction, which took effect in September 2009, led to us now having the situation we have. Let's tell me one case where the law braked some otherwise planned investment, which would bring top-notch results. I'm telling you it's not. Of course, we can talk about changes and additions, we can talk about the problems we've encountered, but please, I read your proposals carefully, never let us build the system by limiting ourselves to the worse ones. We can't treat the bad guys. You suggest we change those things that are just revolutionary -- not to be so strict when it comes to making spatial local plans, not to be so strict about making regulatory plans... Well, they're really a prerequisite for a quick issue of building permits when those plans are made. I am sorry that these plans (here, there is Mr. Ilic) were not brought when they were due, because in 2003 there was a obligation and it was necessary to control local self-government to bring them in. That's why they didn't bring it. I don't want to go in. We will now encourage them and financially help them finish the job. We also need to sort out the situation in Catastro. There are a huge number of problems that are not due to us now, so we have made too much modern law, as we resent, which is inapplicable in Serbia. No, we're about to force Serbia to apply it. We need to help Serbia apply it, because it's the only way to get out of the collapsing of these problems that exist today in the construction and urban sectors, which are either put on the side or pushed under the rug decades ago. I'm sure we have the same goal. Maybe we're not going the same way. And I want to talk to you. And I answered that letter. And you'll get from me not only that, you'll get concrete comments about everything you suggest. But, basically, I want to tell you, and I really don't want to get back to you when we're talking about the Planning and Construction Act, the conversion isn't the problem that led us to what we're in today. I'm going to give you a number of construction sites that aren't open today, and the question is whether or not they're going to open up, which haven't solved the issue of conversion. It's a couple of construction sites. See in Serbia how many construction sites there are with legal permits, so they are not open because there is no demand. So the whole problem in the construction industry we have to look much wider. No. Only one law is guilty, no. Only one man is guilty, no. Only the previous government is guilty. We all have to look at this together as one danger that has prevailed over our entire economic sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42671	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42672	Mrs. Comic, the respected presidency, Mr. Dulic, is not true that no one could assess the effects of the economic crisis. You are part of the government that sent two messages to the citizens of this country very clearly in October 2008. The first is that the crisis will get around us, so when you saw that it was very pointless, when the banks started rocking around the world that have their representatives here, then you said it would positively affect Serbia. It's not true that no one could have guessed. Those were messages from the government. Our messages were different – that the global economic crisis in its strange way is the opportunity for this society to sober up, to realize that it cannot spend what it does not have, that it cannot suddenly be in debt, that it cannot break the budget for 450m euros in order for five MPs to fulfill their pre-election promises, because that decision destroys both my future and the future of my children. Yes, in another way, we have to help the pensioners, the construction industry, the young people, everyone. If we talk about the state now as an investor, the market will start -- it won't, Mr. Dulic. The moment the state appears as an investor, whether it's a housing market or any other market, generally, all private investors withdraw to another plan, because it's clear to them that they can't compete with the state. But it's also clear to me that the state went into it for the reasons of the campaign, not that it's her permanent commitment. No state can be an actor on the market. Then they move to the other side and say, "We will wait for it to pass." And that's what's happening now. This law is the introduction of Serbia into a pre-election campaign. These 180 million will be spent the way money is spent in all campaigns for local self-government in the snap elections that have been organised in the last two years – for the pouring out of the tents, the plastering of schools, the creation of hospitals, the purchase of some appliances. We all know that very well. Is that the fate of our policy? Yes, it is. And I don't want to fight with that at all. Do it like that. If the citizens want it, they can back it up and it'll be the way they do. There's something else in my interest, Mr. Dulic, and that's that broader context, which first obliges us to ask the question of what deadlines something will be done. We're halfway through the construction season, and you're too late for that. Nothing's harder now than six months ago. You're too late for that. Projects need to be done. You have no criteria, you have yet to form. If we're talking about the Planning and Construction Act, I'll tell you what the problem is. It doesn't interest anyone in the LDP the fate of investors who got some rights so they don't realize them, because they weren't those investors with the capacity that Serbia needs, they were people who believed in the transition fairy tale, that it was possible to buy something cheap and sell expensive tomorrow. We are interested in the message sent to those who watched what is happening in Serbia, who are watching Romania, who are watching Bulgaria, who are watching Montenegro. They say – this country has sharpened the criteria, they behave differently than anyone else, they become even more uncompetitive. And that's what the state did.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42673	National MP Momo Colaković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42674	I had no intention of replicating Mr. Jovanovic for the first time, when he said that the state that singles out 30% of its pensioners' GDP had no perspective, but now, when for the second time trying to degrade everything that a group of millions and 650,000 pensioners had created in the previous and in this country, I have to replicate. We don't accept it and I don't think it makes any sense to slap along the way so many groups of people who have created all the material, cultural and other good of this country. First of all, this country, when you were the vice president of this government, took care of them and that part of the privatisation funds were allocated to a fund that could have been an investment fund, I mean a pension fund, would have been quite different. The pensioners from the state don't get the money, they earn it. Retirement is an economic category, a earned category, and you can't talk like this by the way, as you say. That's why I'm asking for some respect and attention to be spoken about what we're talking about here, not by the way, by slapping people who created all the material and other good of this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42675	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42676	Mr. Colakovic, I have great respect for your age, but I'm surprised that you, with so much experience, can say such nonsense. I'm sorry, the government where I was vice president started paying off regular pensions in this country. Until then, the governments you supported, in the system you served, had robbed those pensioners. That's the big difference. Since 5 October 2001, 30% of the budget has been allocated to pensions, but we have reformed the pension fund, started changing pension policies, tied pensions to other values and references from those to which you bind them. Where do you get the right to be defined by the five of you as the sole representatives of the pensioners? You are not representatives of pensioners who voted for LDP, but those whom you allegedly offered 450m euros by linear increases in 10% of all pensions, and pushed the pension by leaving the euro from 80m to 105. We have a right to talk about it. We were the only ones in this assembly in December saying -- let's be responsible, the country can't work this way, it won't survive. Is the IMF supposed to come here and tell you that? Are they supposed to come from New York to say that (or from Washington, where they come from)? What did we say then? To reduce 1% of every pension that is paid without two conditions being respected – a job experience or an age limit has been completed. You forced people into retirement, it was a social measure. You say retirement is an economic category. Well, I'm sorry, in the economy someone's going down. Where's the money? They're gone. Thirty percent of the budget, everything else is by paying our contributions. What about young people? What about my generation? We are not born to live in the black market, and we live – without a work book, socially unsecured, healthless. Millions live like that. Let's make a deal. We're looking for intergenerational solidarity. No one wants the pensioners to lose their income. My parents are retired and hard to live on, but I want them to live tomorrow, not to be told tomorrow – there's nothing. Are you obsessed with the Russians? Well, there's a 30 percent pension there. You said, "We're asking it to be 70%, and we're doing even less." Vote, folks, yes, we'll offer sugar water. He can't do it so irresponsiblely. The World Bank has forced Croatia to retire 4% from June to the missing year until retirement, either on the basis of employment, or on an age basis. It'll be a fairy tale for Serbia. We are obliged to speak the truth and take measures to prevent it. Let's talk about how we're going to work it out, separate the real pensioners from the mufflers, from the ones who retired so they can take a pension and sit somewhere else. As if Serbia was working in a minefield, 25% of pensioners in this country retired on a disability basis. It is true that 90% of pensioners receive less than 20,000 dinars. There's nothing to cut them down on. We have to do more work. Pensioners, you have to think of your children, vote for a policy that opens up markets, not the one that gives you charity. What are you going to do in the next election in a year? What are you going to do in front of them? With a pension that's 50% lower than your pension when you came to power. So you're going to say that the LDP is guilty of it, not respecting the pensioners? That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42677	People's MP, time has been used. Thank you. National MP Momo Colaković has the right to reply and this ends with a round of replicas that are subject to the pension system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42678	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable People's MPs, when a man has no arguments, then he starts yelling. Mr. Jovanovic, I can also say that you cannot represent the young generation. You can't talk about a young generation so you prefer my children and my grandchildren to me. You don't have that right and that's not true. This generation of pensioners, who created the material and other good of this country, has the right to a decent life, has the right to receive what she has earned, has the right to receive what she has created for the state. In this regard, none of your arguments, with your malice and your story, I accept. And please speak differently when you talk about pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42679	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic is registered in the electronic system. I said the pension line is over. You've caused a replica and they've been exchanged twice. (Kedomir Jovanovic: The breach of the Rules of Procedure. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42680	Mrs. Komic, member 104. I think the dignity of the LDP has been injured here in the Assembly, and therefore the dignity of the Assembly, if we are part of it. If we didn't, then you find out, and then there's no grounds for breach of the Rules of Procedure. We are representatives of voters who voted for LDP – neither young nor old, nor peasants nor listeners – 220,000 voters. And of course we don't like that lesson that you occasionally teach us here in the congregation, when our need to change something fundamentally, you represent it as some indifference. Who slaps pensioners? When did this happen anywhere? Where do you get the right to say something like that? What we're trying to talk about actually points to an ambition unacceptable to us, the ambition of a single government to do everything she thinks she has to do to survive. Here you are, Mr. Dulic, our 12 votes every time PUPS blackmails you, but don't pay that anymore by receiving pensions for the next year to never get it again. And I'm done with it. That's what we said when the judiciary was reformed. There's no blackmail in judicial reform. No one can come to the president's office with a list of their judges. If the LDP can protect the principle of fair reform, we will protect it. That's what we did back then, and we're doing it today. We are rare among parties that have not run for office among any man. No judge, no prosecutor, no board of directors, absolutely none of that. We're looking for basic respect here. I don't speak for young people, I speak for the LDP voter. Don't speak for your pensioners, speak for your constituents. We don't call ourselves the "youth party," and you're called the Pension Party. That's not true. You are a party of some pensioners, those who are not always retired, but those who were the government when the funds were destroyed, those to whom you are now called. It's not gonna happen. I work to get a pension. And friends around me work to get a pension. I ask that order be put in order. I ask that order be put in place to spend 180m euros. If this is introduced, I support absolutely. It's hard to make money and there's no gambling with it. I pay taxes, I ask for order. No more playing games with people in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42681	People's MP, the time to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been used. Thank you. There's no breach of Article 104. The heat or edge or vulnerabilities of arguments on various topics has been exchanged and the dignity of the congregation is not compromised. On the contrary, I think dialogue is something that should be part of the congregation's atmosphere. National MP Momo Colakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42682	The Honorable Chairman and Honorable Minister, the Honorable People's MPs, I appeal to Article 101. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42683	National MP, a member of 101 cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as it is the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42684	Then it's about Article 104. Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42685	You can't do that when it comes to Article 101. Thank you. Natasa Micic's national envoy has been reported. You have the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42686	Thank you. I'll be back on the subject. Mr. Minister, I appreciate your efforts to convince us that this bill is justified and that it will produce some positive effects. But you didn't convince us. For us from the LDP, this is an ordinary political experiment, which has no foothold either right or in the economy. That's why we've submitted four amendments and everybody's asked to delete. Deleting four members out of six, as many as there are. What this bill tells us is that the government is actually acting like it's waiting for a miracle to happen, like the problems are going to solve themselves, and in the meantime, until that happens, we're going to make some totally amazing proposals. Because what else do you say than that this is an amazing act? It is surprising that both the Government and the Legislative Committee have passed, since it is contrary to both the Constitution and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, both with the CEFTA Agreement and with the Public Procurement Act. As a highlight of everything, he puts out of force, in a way, derogating the Law of Planning and Construction itself, whose proposing you were, Mr. Minister, and which we just adopted, last year, so he's not even in effect for a year. I see this as a desperate move by the government, like pulling chestnuts out of the fire, because the state, in fact, even though the biggest debtor, is over-indebted, additionally owes, to be the main investor, and in doing so it won't be profitable, because the state can never be profitable as an entrepreneur, and in the end it will all end up being paid by citizens, first of all by those who really have a entrepreneurial spirit, and first of all, I think of private entrepreneurs. You're saying that control exists. I don't see what that control is about. If the state is a major investor, if she approves projects and issues permits, then who controls the state? And that's the source of corruption. Hypothetically I can believe, Mr. Minister, that you are honest, but this bill opens up the possibility of even greater corruption (and we already have enough problems with it). I'd just stick around on Article 3 and Article 6, 'cause we've submitted amendments to delete those members. In Article 3, you prescribe that domestic building materials must be used in the participation of at least 70% of the necessary construction material. First, this provision is contrary to the Public Procurement Act, as it extends domestic companies beyond the provisions as indicated in the Public Procurement Act. But the other thing is interesting here. Let's talk about the construction. How much I have asked about people who do this profession, the domestic material that is produced in this country, is mainly about the structure itself. It is mostly crep, brick, sand, cement, gravel, glass wool, stone wool, etc. The value of these works is usually one third of the total value. Much more expensive are final works, such as bulkhead walls, light bulkhead mounting walls, lowered ceilings, carpentry (PVC and aluminum). Import materials are mostly used for these final works. That's what I saw on the "Building" portal, and I've been consulting with some of the people who work construction. So mostly the basic materials for the construction itself are produced here, and these for the final works are mainly imported. We can make lowered ceilings of reeds and mud, but mostly these gypsum light mounting walls are imported. Okay, that doesn't matter now, but I'm telling you that I don't think we're going to be able to apply it, since we don't have enough domestic construction materials to meet that criterion to be 70% of the value. I'd like to mention Article 6. I've already said you're putting out of force the provisions of the Planning Act by actually determining your ministry's jurisdiction to issue local, construction and useful permits. This Law on Planning and Construction, which we have also strongly opposed, I am telling you that it has in some way stalled, because your ministry has been late for several months with sublegal acts. Or local self-government could have worked without these sublegal acts, was that possible? Of course not. I'll give you an example now. You didn't make it in time to bring in those sublegal acts, and that's how you put a stop to construction. But watch this now, for some protected zones, such as Hive or Topcider, you already have the authority and authority to issue local permits under the existing regulation. I'll give you an example. You have a request from the Ministry of Education last June for a local license on the Kosutnjak. It's been over a year. In doing so, this permit requires one ministry, not some private entrepreneur, which is also an important difference, and you haven't issued that license yet. Then I can only imagine that there will be a situation in this expansion of jurisdiction, where you are, in fact, taking on even greater responsibility. Anyway, this law doesn't promise me at all. Most of all, it acts as if you are treating the disease with the wrong medicine, which can only cause worse consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42687	The LDP parliamentary group also used the time of the parliamentary group and the time of the parliamentary group president. People's MP, Free Maras, has been reported. You don't have time. National MP Momo Colaković has a word, so MP Milan Lapčević, MP Velimir Ilic, MP Milos Aligrudic, has the order I read. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42688	The President-in-Office, the Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law and speak positively of the bill in the voting day, for a number of reasons. First of all, about the arguments presented in the principle debate in which we participated in the previous days, I would like to stress that one of the most prospective industries in our country is just construction and that it needs to be given a chance and needs help, that a huge number of workers in this economic branch are out of work and that we should return our construction to those branches on which it was before 2000. In this regard, our parliamentary group believes that a construction operation can come out of the crisis with the measures proposed here. With regard to taking away words when reporting for replicas, I can say that it is not correct by the chairman to prevent the MP from taking the floor. I reported on the basis of Article 104, and regarding Article 101, that the MP who was speaking at that time hurt the dignity of the National Assembly by mentioning the PUPS in a negative context. Such an argument, regardless of the noise and shouting that the MP concerned, visiting occasionally in this assembly, seems, we do not accept. That's why I wanted to react. There is no need for a group of MPs elected in the same way as a group of LDP MPs to be brought into contact with this law. That is why I respond in this way and ask that the Parliament's voting day declare itself on the breach of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42689	Two minutes and 30 seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42690	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, Article 27, and in relation to Article 104. Madam Chairman, did you hear the president of one parliamentary group just now say to the president of the other parliamentary group that'sometimes visiting in this assembly, shouting and shouting'? That's what he said about the LDP president, who yesterday at one point, along with the deputy of one parliamentary group and the head of the other parliamentary group, was the only one present when the Constitutional Court Judges' proposal was discussed, and you kept your mouth shut. Mr. Colakovic, I don't know why you're getting in the middle of a controversy with LDP when it comes to pensions. You were in a system that destroyed the pension fund. You and I come from the same town as Mrs. Komic. Ask any fellow citizen on the street – what was the Vojvodina Pension Fund until Radovan Bozovic drowned him in the Republic Pension Fund, in a bottomless hole? How did the pensioners live in Vojvodina? What did you do in 2008 with your blackmail, how did we throw half a billion? Ask the finance minister what she said about the amendment that the LDP submitted here to the press (although the cameras were not included). It is not correct, Mr. Colakovic, to speak to you so and to speak of the president of a parliamentary group and the president of the LDP. We have never talked about you and your MP group with disrespect. Our policies differ, but the difference is that we're trying to protect the public interest, and you're trying to place a burden on us that we're against pensioners. All of us sitting here have parents who are retired.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42691	Two minutes. Thank you. There's no breach of Article 104. If the MP had broken any of the members who prescribed the treatment, he would have been warned. Right on line, MP Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42692	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable People's MPs, I have not said a single name and name. If my predecessor recognized the head of his MP group, that's his problem. This way as the president of the LDP parliamentary group spoke about pensioners and how pensioners are destroying this country and how they are burdened by this state and how few there should be, it is unacceptable for us. For those reasons, I was talking about him, and the fact that you recognized him in my speech, that's your problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42693	People's MP, Free Maras, has been re-enlisted. You want to talk about a new breach of the Rules of Procedure? You have no right to a replica. Thank you. National MP Milan Lapcevic has a word after him, MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42694	Let's try to get back on the subject. What Mr. Minister was saying by explaining the law and individual amendments is indeed more than demagogy – we will save Serbia's construction industry by investing out of the state budget money we don't have and making new apartments, and thousands of apartments already made from private investment don't have a buyer. It won't be the construction sector to be saved, Mr. Dulic. And it wasn't 2005, 2006, 2007 that Serbia had economic growth because it invested from the state budget, but those years we had the largest real private investment, whether domestic or foreign, of over four and a half billion euros. You're saying that in April of this year, 11% more industrial production is higher than in April of last year. But you forgot to say that last year, by 28%, it was less than in 2008. When you compare to zero, it's more than zero. No one knew how long the global economic crisis would take. As far as I know, at least three times in the last year I've heard from the Minister of Economy that he knows how long the global economic crisis will take and that we've already come out of that recession. Last September – the economic crisis for Serbia ends by the end of the year. Cvetkovic said we are already registering economic growth this year in March. However, citizens do not feel it on their skin, but it is important that he felt in his skin that Serbia had exited the recession. The data suggests that today 300 euros were what during the government of Vojislav Kostunica was 450 euros and that one of the lowest salaries in the region, from former Yugoslav republics, was nothing. The only thing that will allow this law will allow the ruling parties to choose their financials, negotiate with them how much it will cost a certain job and make money for future elections, for their campaign. This could rather be called the law on the legalization of money laundering from the state budget than the law on the promotion of the construction industry. What bothers you to change certain members of the Public Procurement Act to speed up procedures? Since this is your only excuse, that the procedures are too long, and since it is an essential disaster, then we must take action as soon as possible to save Serbia's construction industry and other industries. However, it took you two years to come up with something urgent to do, so after two years you propose an emergency law, where you will shorten the procedure and no longer make public calls for 30 or 45 days. However, there are opportunities in the Public Procurement Act that you have quoted very nicely, there are mechanisms to shorten these procedures to shorter deadlines, but that is obviously not enough. There's something else you need. You need to do negotiating business with similar firms. The fact that you stated in Article 3 that a list of companies that will meet certain conditions will be created, it is commonly called – similar companies. Now, you and these similar firms, and since your commission will do so, I mean governmental, participatory of the ruling party's representatives, you'll agree which companies are similar across Serbia. This translates into those companies financed by the ruling coalition's parties, so you will negotiate with them what homes of health, kindergartens and schools will create, repair roofs and do all the projects needed, but are not necessary for this time and for this state of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Since there is no money in the budget, then you will take loans from commercial banks, further debt to Serbian citizens, do what is not necessary, and on top of that, in order to benefit both you and the ruling coalition parties, you will agree with them how much it will cost and, of course, part of that money will be merged primarily into the ruling coalition's breaks, preparing for the elections. Now, that's a multiple benefit, or multiple damages from this law. The first damage is that you will campaign on projects and double-cross a number of Serbian citizens. The second shame is that you will further assign the state and future generations, because something will be done that is not necessary at this time. The third and biggest damage is that much of that money from the state budget will be washed and poured into the pockets of any individual, any party in power. This law is completely pestilent. After its application, Serbia will no longer be in the 83rd stage of corruption, to be in 100th or worse place. The law produces multiple damages and the DSS will seek an assessment of the constitutionality of this law, as it fully derivates public control of state money, money being poured from taxpayers into Serbia's budget, and is fully transferred to control by the government and the parties in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42695	Six minutes have been spent using the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. People's MP Free Maras wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42696	Article 104, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Momo Colakovic told a great lie. He said the LDP said the pensioners were a burden. He did it in his last address. Mr. Colakovic, LDP never said that. LDP said you were a burden, you five. You, Mr. Colakovic, said in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42697	People's MP, I ask you to sum up your conduct with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which are in force and to keep in mind how we address each other. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42698	Mrs. Comic, Mr. Colakovic said in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the great success of the PUPS is that 1,500 pensioners have entered the boards. And then we were saying, Mr. Colakovic, taking care of the pensioner's interest, to freeze pensions at the level they were at, and then the euro was 75 or 80 dinars. Every pensioner knows if he had more real value then or now. Mr. Colakovic, did you come here to take the story off the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42699	People's MP, you've been given your word to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please do it in these two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42700	If you'll allow me. So Mr. Colakovic said that the LDP said that pensioners are a burden. We never said that. We came here to try to clear things up with Minister Dulic. Mr. Dulic, don't take Novi Sad as an example. You know how much the city building office...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42701	People's MP, you've been given a word based on article 100 to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to do so, because everything else is abuse of the rights of Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42702	What I'm saying is that Mr. Momo Colakovic wasn't telling the truth when he said that the LDP said that pensioners were a burden, he hurt the dignity of the Assembly and our parliamentary groups. And what we live on shows that he's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42703	There's no breach of Article 104. If you look at the stenogram, the exchange of arguments was exactly the same, on the edge, but understandable, given the topic that was launched, outside the agenda. National MP Momo Colaković. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42704	I'm looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42705	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42706	It's MP time, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42707	Please leave me to apply the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 27 and to take care of the order. In my desire to take care of the order, I find no additional replica in favour of any exchange of arguments. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42708	Article 104. Please, someone else here has raised the issue beyond the subject, and that is exactly Mr. Jovanovic, on two occasions, not our parliamentary group, nor me. And it doesn't matter what he's saying, that 30% of GDP is allocated to pensioners who are not perspectives. That's what he said. And secondly, that we are a group that blackmails the government and the ruling coalition. That's not true either. That's why I reacted. And you didn't tell the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42709	There is no violation of Article 104 for the reasons I have already given in the previous explanation of the exchange of arguments which is on the verge of applying the rules prescribed by our Rules of Procedure. MP Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42710	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected a serious law that would help the construction industry out of the crisis. I also expected some of the amendments that have been submitted to be accepted, to improve this bad law, as far as possible. However, there is no repair. What's wrong with being born remains forever. Today, I have again experienced that Minister Dulic, who knows which time, is false when he explains his suggestions and is always looking for the culprit on another side and is always guilty of someone before him. I'd just like to remind Mr. Dulic of a few things. For the hundredth time, I explained in this parliament, it is true that there were road debts, it is true that, when the Public Enterprise was formed, the funds of over 10.2 billion dinars were transferred, because there was no money and then the finance minister Dinkic said it would regulate in a month. It is true that debt to the road users since the bombing and from 2000 to 2004 were unpaid accounts at the recovery and repair of bridges, roads, etc. There have been these famous incidents, the burning of machines and all that during the power of the party to which Mr. Dulic belongs. It is true that there was a general chaos and that there was an extremely large debt. It is true that there was a realisation of a construction programme that was adopted by the government, but was not paid, there was no funding, so the IMF said that Serbia had reinvested, so then the finance minister suggested not to reduce all ministries individually, but to break everything down on "The Roads", and the following year that the sales of "Mobtel" brought that money back and to pay the passengers. So tollers were asked not to be invoiced this year, but immediately after the New Year and then there was a change in government and Minister Cvetkovic did not accept it, but suggested that the possibility of a loan be paid off through credit, which was later done when Cvetkovic became prime minister. He has a record from the Transport and Connections Committee and a discussion by Minister Cvetkovic, then the finance minister. Please, Mr. Dolliche, don't mention it anymore. It is true that Serbia's spatial plans were made and it is true that projects were done because they could not be concessions. You know that concessions and concessions were adopted at the Assembly and Nis-Dimitrovgrad, which no one answered, and Horgos-Požega. It's impossible to call a concession without a project documentation. Who removed your project documentation? The tender had 23,000 pages, Mr. Dulic. How is it possible to call an international tender involving "Buig", "Vinchi", "Strabag", "FSS", "Alpina", etc. without any project documentation? Is that technically possible? It's not. There's project documentation in the government, so idea projects, there's a general project, and all the contractors asked to do a project in the process of getting a job. The creation of the project documentation itself, to sign up for a tender, on 22,000 pages, cost between 1 million and 2 million euros, and so now many firms are asking for compensation, since you and your government have annulled the concession completely against the law. You'll lose that dispute eventually and you'll have to make up for it, because that's something that's agreed on. So it's true that there was a problem with the construction, but why was there a problem? Vojvodina was ruled by the Democratic Party, the city of Belgrade by the Democratic Party, and the government of Vojislav Kostunica ruled Serbia and there was a conflict. We had three powers. Vojvodina did not want to sign any acts at all, and the city of Belgrade has completely ignored the government of the Republic of Serbia. I remember when we were supposed to do Prokop – everything was under contract, the city of Belgrade didn't want to sign anything. Here, about the rescue of Gazela, you're still arguing with the city of Belgrade whether they need apartments of solid material or not, and you still can't get rid of Gilas, which is from your party. And how could we have solved that when you didn't want to accept it? Therefore, it is true that there were problems and that they could not be resolved because no bills were paid. Now you want to adopt something, which is to be a free contract. I know what's hurting you. You want to start these four highways a mile, purely marketing, because you don't have the money to build. You don't have it in your budget. You only have two billion for this part of Belgrade-Pozeg. Two billion dinars for now. However, international loans cannot come to you unless there is no international tender and there is no public procurement. I'm sure you know, no bank is going to get into this story without it, and this job is for nothing. You'll just start, take a picture and do a few miles out there somewhere in the middle of nowhere. Normally, the highway starts either from Belgrade or Požega. You can't start it. You'll start it from the Colubara, because there's free land for you and you shouldn't be doing expropriations. And it's a sighted thing. You've got two billion, you're going to bury there a little while before the elections, and you're going to be making a campaign like you started this from Dimitrovgrad, and as you do the Macedonian border, that's what I started, and you haven't finished yet, although you've opened it. Why don't you do a tour around Belgrade? Why did you stop? Isn't it illogical for the highway to start off on the bypass and head towards the sea? It's normal in every country. You've begun to resuscitate Gazela, and you don't have a full profile of the bypass around Belgrade. You've got one tape, and you're going to have a total traffic jam. And that's obvious. Therefore, there will be general chaos. May God help you, Mr. Dulic. How are you gonna start on the highway in 15 days, the way I read in the paper the other day, with a free contract? If the tender that was called has 22,000 pages, 23,000 pages, how can you make tenders? Who's gonna make you a 15-day tender and offer to do the job? You just smile, Mr. Dulliche, but you'll pass like those in health care if someone chases you. You see how this friend of yours went and how he's gonna have to answer hard. This is impossible. I know what you want. You want to sell Telekom, as Dinkic said, and later on Cvetkovic, when Mobtel is sold, and out of it will be the highways, so when you get the money from Telekom, you will start the works with a free contract. And it's a matter of corruption and it's impossible for the most honest man in the world to do it one way. As you started with Borovic in 2000 to do the Belgrade highway – Novi Sad, so how did it end and how much did it cost the country? Not you, your party. We barely ironed it, for three years we ironed those works that you... He, a man, charged toll. Don't get baptized, that's true, look at the papers 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, so it was a general mess. That's why you beat yourselves up in there, the machines, the turquoises, the aliens, buying planes and what you didn't do. You have a problem starting construction. Well, construction will be launched if you pay the construction workers for the work they've done in the reconstruction and construction of the country after the bombing and if you pay them interest and if you re-privatize them and destroy that irregular privatisation that destroyed giants like "Comgrapa", "Ratka Mitrovica", "Rada" from Belgrade, "PIM" from Mostogradation. You totally broke them. If you solve the excess administrations that these companies have and couldn't solve in privatisation and nobody wanted them and that's why they failed. That's why they need help. They haven't been paid yet from Iraq, Mr. Dulic, with interest. You know how many debts the construction workers made in Iraq, which state, then Yugoslavia, has charged? Just to pay them, they'll get on their feet and start working. Therefore, irregular and through bankruptcy of privatisation, to take the property of these companies, has completely destroyed construction firms, and your party has done so from 2000 to 2004. That's what you need to get in line. Now you want municipalities to borrow loans, you've already over-indebted some of your municipalities, and you want to introduce them into some guesses. Look how much you owe Kragujevac, Mr. Dulic. Look how many of the cities you've put in charge. How they're going to get out of that debt obligation they have, etc.? You asked why he didn't work and turn himself in to the general highway project. Well, because you introduced a 1% fee to environmental science. You know what 1% is on the entire highway to verify the project that was done? No one had that kind of money to pay and you didn't want to change it then. I was in Turkey, with the Turkish government, being your government representatives and talking. The Turks demand only one condition -- they won't tender, they want a free deal. And that's what they told me as a minister. Sharik Tara, the biggest Turkish performer, said – sir, only a free contract and we come to Serbia to build; any tender we do not recognise. Here, you accepted it, and your prime minister accepted it, and your ministers accepted it in negotiations with the president (I know the team, because I already talked to them) and we didn't want to get out of the public procurement framework. Now you're asking what the proposals are for construction to come out of the crisis. Mr. Dulic, I'm telling you as a man who ran a private construction company for 23 years, was a private contractor, and I'm telling you that the basic proposal for a travel economy and construction to get out of the crisis is to charge VAT at a fee, not by invoice. It buried the builders and the tolls. They had to take loans, so they became more and more in debt, and that's why the state owed them. Because as soon as they're invoiced, they have to pay VAT, and the state doesn't pay them. Here's how much time you owe to the roadmen. It buried them. You don't pay them, and they owe themselves and pay VAT on the total amount of invoiced realisation. It also destroyed the production of construction material. People asked for one thing - that the government freed them to pay... So when the state pays them, that's when they pay the VAT. Not that the state owes them billions, they raise their loans, they owe 18% of the interest and pay VAT. I'm asking you to make that happen, if that's possible. It's fair to the builders and it would help them a lot. The second thing is to pay for all the behind construction works performed in Iraq and abroad and the works carried out in the reconstruction and reconstruction of the state after the bombing. And they get paid interest. They even accepted the release of the state of interest and the payment of only basic debt. To accept their social programme for excess administrations, which has never been done. It was promised, and you didn't do anything about it. Therefore, construction works can be helped, but in this way I have now presented to you. Secondly, you cannot enter into credit obligations if you abolish the Public Procurement Act, because no European Bank, no World Bank, will give you credit. And third, to finally make those Dinkic promised credit lines for cheap apartments for young couples come true. There's no starting construction without selling, and sales can't be because the people have nothing to buy from. A lot of people don't work, a million people are out of a job. So, to secure the credit lines so the builders can sell their apartments. Now there are thousands of unsold apartments in Belgrade. Why? Unfavourable credit lines, no one buys, people in a difficult situation. What I suggested to you, I suggested friendly. You can talk whatever you want and you can attack however you want and transfer the blame to another government, but that other government had an average salary of 100 euros a month and cheaper cost of life 30-40%, and cheaper construction material 40% and they pay more 100 euros per employee on average in Serbia, Mr. Dulic. In these two years, your results in the government have been catastrophic. You must do something radical and invite us out of the opposition to help you, to teach you how to get out of the crisis, because you don't know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42711	A minute and 40 seconds of the parliamentary group's time and the total time available to you as president of the parliamentary group have been used. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42712	It's very difficult to answer a bunch of things that you've opened here, because it seems to me that you have a problem of orientation – in time, in space and in personality. You've got it all wrong. In 20 years you've put on so many strange things, I just can't do everything now, starting in the '90s. To this day, how much of all the things that you've brought out as facts absolutely don't stand. I'll start at the end. You've just boasted that during your government construction material was cheaper than it was today. Is that right, did you say that? Yes, it is. Then how is it possible that the highway from Novi Sad to Horgos then cost, at the price you accepted, 25 billion, and now it's working for 11 billion? So you've forced the government and today you're defending that concession, and with cheaper construction materials, you're going to build a highway like you're paving it with a mosaic. Today, a highway is built that is more than twice as cheap than it was when you claim it was cheaper construction material. And there are no arguments that these are financing costs, that it's a concession, etc., because we're building a twice as cheap highway today, we're going to charge tolls as a state, and you're handing over more than double the price and the concessionaire charges tolls. You have done many things that you boast and praise today and claim to be successful in a way that I would not call successful. I'm just trying to point out the facts. So I'm not attacking you, I'm not attacking the government, I'm just trying to point out the facts of how it used to be and how it is now, because we compare those times. Yeah, it's true it was a better salary than it was today. You've had great years, where there was no global economic crisis and there were big investments in this country. And then you didn't take the chance to finish Corridor 10. I'll tell you the other denials of what you claimed. It's not true that there were projects to complete Corridor 10. That's not true and that's not true. We started doing them. In August 2008, the government just ordered ideas and main projects for most of the routes located on Corridor 10. So you lived in a time where there was more money, where all this could have been spent. You've been spending a lot of money, but you know what it's like, now I'm going to be a little doctor, so I'm going to tell you that it's like having generalized arteriosclerosis, which leads to the blockage of the entire system, and instead of treating the aorta, you've been treating capillaries. You've paved roads and trails that couldn't help the competitiveness of this country and solve a problem that hasn't been solved in 20-30 years, which is the end of Corridor 10. That was your policy. She brought you votes. She, of course, had a purpose. Thank God those policies are gone and we're finally gonna finish this Corridor 10. So when we started working in August 2008, there were neither idea projects, nor major projects, nor expropriation was done in all these directions. Let me tell you something - these projects are just finishing now. And do not talk – so is it possible that the concession will end without any projects? Well, there weren't any. So, since you don't know it either, you've concluded a concession in which there was a model so-called model. Design-building, where this concessionary was obliged to do an idea project, a major project and complete the expropriation. He didn't do it, the concession was broken. We think we did a good thing for the state, you think we didn't. I only need one argument, and that's the price. So we saved more than double money by breaking that concession and doing good. When we talk about all the other routes, today it's also built from Nis towards Dimitrovgrad, one construction site is open, some tenders are under way, projects are being completed somewhere, intensively working on expropriation. Today it is done from Leskovec to the Macedonian border, it is also at different stages, but projects are still being done. So you didn't finish them. They're still working. Today, thank God, the highway from Horgos will finally end, connecting the border with Hungary, Subotica, Novi Sad, Belgrade, and only recently we have completed the main projects. So, at least as far as design and expropriation are concerned, no matter how much more money you had, you're boasting that there were bigger salaries, you had budget surpluses, etc., you didn't finish that job. As far as infrastructure is concerned, you've been completely waving, and that's what's actually going on. Of course, you can be angry or not, it has nothing to do with it, the good thing is that we're going to do it, which by 2012, we're going to end it, and, for what we don't finish, we're going to be left with the idea projects, the main projects, we're going to be expropriated. Whoever comes, we're sure they won't come, but whoever comes, they'll have the opportunity to continue these works. Let's move on. You say VAT. That's right. In my earlier speech, I also mentioned that VAT is a huge problem and that it is a huge problem for you to charge VAT immediately in advance, and that the situation is going on, and that the builders are in charge of it. But let me ask you one thing - when the VAT was introduced, what year? In 2004 And who was the government minister in charge of the building back then? Velimir Ilic. And why did Velimir Ilic then, as a privateer with 23 years of experience, not tell the finance minister, whoever he was at the time – see, there is a problem, this will destroy the building? Why are you telling me this in 2010? So, you had time from 2004 to 2008, four or five years, as long as you were a minister, to correct it. You didn't make it right. Like you didn't do anything else. I'm told by the builders today, so the big construction companies that you mention – it's a rare opportunity to work with a minister who's really in charge of us; we didn't see it at all, except on TV. You didn't have that kind of communication. Maybe there wasn't a need, it was a good time, it was good work, the builders were building a lot. But maybe there was a need, at least to see those companies you're talking about. When I say you're disoriented in time, let me ask you a question. You mention debts from Iraq, you mention the collapse of large companies, etc. Well, they went down in the '90s, when we were imposed sanctions. They didn't fail this year or last year. 'Rad', 'Ratko Mitrović', 'Forward' and all other companies that are either being tortured today or standing a little better (mostly in a bad situation) collapsed in the '90s, when someone introduced sanctions and completely banned our builders and engineers from this country. That's when all these companies went down. That's when our competitiveness disappeared, that's when we entered the chronic technological backlog, lost ties to technology. We've lost our ability to build. We today have a huge problem in designing (it's not your fault) because we don't have adequate projectors to design suitable facilities, because they don't have adequate references. We are now fighting, among other things, through these tenders, to create references that will allow our designers to be competitive again in the world. You resent us starting Ub-Likovac. We start where we can start the easiest. Because it's the only place that's ever done a little expropriation, for example. Because it's the only place that's had a little more projects than it is in other places. You have done a general project with a feasibility study from Belgrade to Požega. I must tell you that you have chosen a catastrophic course as far as this right bank of Sava, which must now be changed because it would be terribly expensive. So we had to not only move everything from the beginning, but also what little was done to revise, to do what was the essence, which is to cut the road short, to do the savings and finally finish it. This government will end the path that you dreamed of, rightly, and dreamed of by the citizens of the Forest, which is the way from Belgrade to the Cacak, i.e. to Požega and, for God's sake, to the southern Adriatic. The government will begin construction of the highway from Preljina to Pojat. This government is about to build a fast tape from Paracino to Zajecar. This government will invest huge money in infrastructure and, believe me, a lot of things will end. So you'll see the end of many papers. Trust me or Mrkonjic or anyone else, but something really will finally end. When you say 'I've finished four or five thousand kilometers of roads', I don't know where those roads are, but I know for a fact that everyone who comes to Belgrade will be sitting as MPs on the roads that this government is about to complete, and that will be one big incentive for low-building. When we talk about other things that we talked about today, about debt to the tolls, so you say these debts come from a time of renewal, you know what's interesting? Most of these debts are due to companies that were founded after 2000. How is it possible that we owed these companies and that Mrkonjic made those debts when these companies were mostly formed in 2001 or 2002? Just don't tell the truth. So, all the things you've got, you've mixed up. It is true, there are many debts left, but they are mostly poured into Serbia's Building Directorate and in the last few years these debts have been returning. There are huge debts of the state towards the building, that's true, but how do we go about paying back these debts when there's a huge problem that local self-governments are both incompetent, they can't be in charge, that the government itself has to suffer from a severe economic crisis and is trying to do something about it? I believe this model that we have proposed is the only possible way to save our building. I believe it is possible that the control system (and not, as you said, by direct contract) established by this law can finally reach the best possible price and the best possible conditions. I'm just going to rephrase one MP before you do. He says -- it's going to be like a company, and this is the start of a campaign. We'll campaign when the time comes. This government is about half the term of office these days. The elections will take place in May 2012. The campaign will begin in January-February 2012. Until then, there's still a lot of work to be done. I hope that in 2012, when there is a campaign, there will be no need for such laws. I hope that the crisis will pass, that we will save this from the building as far as possible and that we will have a completely different situation both in our economy and throughout the country. Similar companies? Any company that meets the criteria and criteria will be exclusively related to technical competence, for reference. The criteria will be such that we will only support those companies that have worked and built in the last five years, which were supplied by equipment, which have a number of employees. Each of these companies will be involved in this. A public call for each of the buildings to be built will go towards all the companies that meet these conditions. There's no such thing. There will be a possibility that in many cities, companies will finally get jobs. The only way to do that is this. Everything you recommended to me, I respect deeply. But let me tell you something -- a lot of those things you recommended to me today, you didn't apply yourself when you were a minister. I don't want to replicate anymore, I said what are facts and what are facts. You may have forgotten that, but that's true. So most of the things you said, it absolutely doesn't stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42713	The People's Messenger Milos Aligrudić has the word, and the Messenger of the people Velimir Ilic. (Velimir Ilic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You have nine minutes of Parliament time and you can use that time. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42714	This Article 3, which we're talking about, and the amendment we're talking about is very indicative, and I've reported here on purpose, to say something about the meaning of this law and this Article 3. Namely, if the previous Article 2 is looked at and what the objectives of this law are, and I will read this quickly: 1) overcoming the negative effects of the economic crisis in the Republic of Serbia in the area of construction, i.e. helping the domestic construction industry to get out of the crisis; 2) encouraging the development and employment of domestic construction enterprises and ensuring the liquidity of this sector; 3) encouraging the development of the employment of domestic enterprises involved in the production of building materials; 4) retaining the existing level of employment with the possibility of creating new jobs; and 5) encouraging economic development in the Republic of Serbia, which is probably the general objective pursued through these objectives and these particular objectives, these are the objectives for which no one here would sign. When such targets are listed in one law and this Article 2 is isolated, there is nothing to object to. At times of crisis, any government would resort to measures to achieve these goals. When you look at Article 3, which is already beginning to develop methods that come to the achievement of these goals, you can also see the signs of some good settings. We see here that the state is deciding to intervene from the budget, setting out the priority companies it goes to when they are employed to implement these objectives through these companies, because it wants to protect domestic production and the domestic construction industry. And, of course, that's where they lay groundwork to create some criteria for how to reach these construction firms. When you read it like this, certain questions can be opened. It states in point 2 that the criteria will be established by a special act of the Government. We often object here against the different criteria established by the government if no specific coordinates are given in advance. In paragraph 2, these coordinates are somewhat given, as it is said that construction companies based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia (i.e. normal) will participate in the implementation of the projects, which have appropriate experience and references and employ a significant number of workers, i.e. according to their technological capacities, can employ a significant number of workers, and then it is said that the criteria will be closer to determining the Government, and in a legal and technical way, it can be accepted in a no-technical sense, although it opens up a reasonable doubt. But if this Article 3 is related to what you have written in Article 5, and the debate on regulations must always be interpreted, then there is a serious problem in interpreting how this regulation will apply, which you have had the opportunity to listen to in principle and what you will listen to and listen to today in detail. I wouldn't be here dealing with big issues, correcting the wrong Drins, discussing what could have been and couldn't be, or what was and how it was supposed to be. This is a very specific matter. We live in a society, obviously, that those who have decided to take responsibility for the exercise of power are unable to put into order. We live in a society where, imagine, the Anti-Corruption Agency, which needs to oversee social behavior in front of all those responsible actors who exercise power and those who are in power positions, according to some newspapers, obtains data input software by playing the Public Procurement Act. It's our social reality. Who's gonna control them? Who controls the Anti-Corruption Agency? You, in such circumstances and various topics that are being opened here in the Serbian Parliament, are in different charges that are radiating from one side to the other when it comes to the way this society and this country's affairs are handled, dare, regardless of the honorable motives that we sign, to make a law of eight members, where two key members are actually talking about the mechanism of how these projects are being implemented, where, when these two members connect, Article 3 and Article 5, you come into a situation to open up no small doubt by interpreting these provisions, but because in practice these projects will be realised, that one sector of complete uncovered when it comes to control, or, in translation, you will tell us – there is no reason to be afraid because the main controller of this procedure is the Government of Serbia. Well, that's where the basic fear is. If you have one state body that, under Article 5, will bring the criteria that will be defined by a special act by that state authority on how, to whom and in any way to direct the invitation to the undertakings referred to in Article 3 that are defined here, which will again be defined by a government act, then we are coming into the situation that this is not only not a public procurement in a classical sense, that this is not only a procedure without publication of a public call, according to the law governing public procurement, but we are in a position to open up the suspicion that this is an exclusive procedure of not a public call, but a private calling of those undertakings that at a certain point respond to those who exercise power or make the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not saying it will be, but my question is opening, and it's very simple for you -- was there any other way to make one law that would protect the construction industry in Serbia in times of crisis without opening such a huge doubt? We almost had no law in front of the Serbian Parliament that has such a hole, which can be attacked with the foundation. I repeat again - nor do I accuse you, Mr. Minister, that you intend to do this or anyone from the Serbian government, but we are serious people and we are conducting a parliamentary debate. The correct thing would be to withdraw this law (for which you still have time, it is not voted), to work, to close these gaps, and by means of them to convince the public that there is no doubt, or at least not this much doubt, because in times of crisis, you simply can't close all the gaps, I believe deeply, but that this kind of hole here opens up, in this law, which allows such doubts to be opened, that, first of all, for those of you who, as Government, are bringing us regulations to the National Assembly, is neither good nor convenient, and for us it is absolutely unacceptable. Who can assure me that you will pro bono in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, agreeing, because you have an interest in the exercise of power... You see how the Assembly works, the ruling coalition, even if certain members of groups disagree on some issues, it's been ironed out and that's how it works, the government keeps itself alive. And it's not about you and your government, it's about any government in the future, it's about the nature of things. So this isn't about me attacking you over something I think is unnatural, in one democratic order it's the nature of things. But if we already know all that, then we can't allow ourselves as a state to bring such regulations that open up so many doubts. Whatever you say (you can tell me – you know, I am good, I deeply believe in Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic and the fair intentions of most members of his cabinet. You can tell me -- here, I swear to you, my mother, we're honest. It's all right, I can even trust you in private, but as a member of this house, I can't. That's what this is about. These are the key reasons why we cannot support this law of yours. Not because we don't think we should do what your intention was, we deeply believe that we should do it, and in our economic programme, which we put out to the public, it's just as it stands in this bill of yours, but the way we realise it is extremely dubious and that's what we're against. If this law goes on like this, if for any reason you have a problem changing or withdrawing this despite these warnings, the first thing you should do is wait for some psychological period of a month or two, so give changes and additions. Because, and this is the best I can tell you, this really isn't the way to fix this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42715	Thank you. Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42716	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I'm very sorry, when you have no arguments, you insult people, insult MPs. You say I'm lost in space, in orientation. And you are lost in space, Mr. Minister. I don't know where you're lost, but you're totally lost, Mr. Minister. I do not insult you, I warn you. Don't do what you're doing. And don't do what you do. Mr. Minister, you know everything. Now I want for what you're belittled and what you say you're doing cheaper, to tell you, as I told Kalanovici, I understood her, the lady doesn't understand, maybe a good ajvar, maybe leaves a winter, but I have to explain it to you now. We have made the highway infrastructure during my term of office from Novi Sad to Saturday, Mr. Minister. Overpasses, underpasses, expropriation – all complete. That's the most expensive part. Cables, lighting, loops and everything. Just a timer loop, how much is it, Mr. Minister? Fifty million euros. Well, the other loops we've been doing, so the entrance-out on the highway, that's the most expensive part of the highway. The only thing left for you now is to provide the tape. It's all set and done. That's why the price is low. Take the length and how much it costs a kilometer of highway on a bypass around Belgrade. I want you to figure out how much it costs. What Gilas did, the part that he finished, so you see how much it costs when you have overpasses, underpasses, tunnels and everything else. So that's where you're wrong, and don't go after each other when you don't understand each other anymore. Please don't insult your predecessors. I didn't insult those before me who didn't do anything. They made a series of problems, but I never mentioned them in my term, and that's why I did 4,000 miles. Here, now I'm going to count you down in a minute, since I have time, I'm using the time of the parliamentary group. Mr. Minister, a tour around Belgrade, the reconstruction of Belgrade – the Croatian border completely, Kuzmin – Republika Srpska complete, with a bridge made (which you have not now finished) on the Sava, completely completed by Belgrade – Novi Sad, was not done at all by Beška – Novi Sad, and this was partly done with interruptions. Then, the complete reconstruction of Novi Sad – Subotica. A complete reconstruction of Belgrade – Vršac. The Banat highway, Mr. Minister, to Zrenjanin and Kickinda, to Montenegro completely, via Zlatibor, Bor's head, the Chargan tunnel, which collapsed, to Visegrad completely, to the Macedonian border completely. Nis – Dimitrovgrad 23 km highway and the rest completely reconstructed. The tiny ravine – all tunnels expanded, reconstructed and adapted for traffic. Complete reconstruction of the Ibar highway, all the way to Raska. Mr. Minister, from Belgrade, not to speak now – Divics, Valjevo, the reconstruction of Pojata, Predejana and everything else. It is true that I have done a little more villages in Kopalnik, villages in Zlatibor, villages in Golia, it is true that a lot has been done in Sandzak, completely, and a bypass around New Pazar. And is that bad? Is it bad that she got the Wrong River roads on the Bath, where she couldn't get close? Is it bad that she got the way of Gona Gora, where she couldn't get close? Is it bad that the road to Ravna Gora was done and completely to Valjev? Is it bad that the path of Valjevo – Divcibara and Mininica – Divcibara was done? Not bad, Mr. Minister. Is it bad that the time was done, for the first time was Studenica, the Raska area connected to Kokin's boat? And it's a huge investment. Is that bad, Mr. Minister? Now you're going from the Raška region to the sea three times shorter. Is that a bad thing I did? When you add it all up, if you can add it up, it's four thousand kilometers. And my Mr. Dulic, Minister, you're the third term minister, you're off the season... Not the third term, but the third construction season. Third season, Minister. Yes, ma'am, I'm sorry, it's a lapus, but you're having a third season, and now you're changing the laws. You've got another one of those regular choices of yours, and God forbid you'll welcome them. I want you to welcome them from your heart, that spring of 2012. But God forbid you'll be waiting. You only have next season. Here they go on vacation. By the time you're done with all this, take care of those projects you're talking about here, while you educate people to design... Doesn't the CIP know he's designing a highway? Don't embarrass yourself. Doesn't the Institute of Roads, which designed half of the Middle East, know how to design a highway? You're supposed to teach him, aren't you? You need to teach the CIP to design a railroad, to project a tunnel? Is that what you're supposed to do? You've destroyed many giants. You destroyed the Intermost, too, great, which Vinci made here. He was completely bankrupt because you didn't pay for his work during your term of office. Here, finish the tour around Belgrade, I made it. Make the Guard tunnel, finish it. Come to the drum stream. Why can't you? Do the second strip of the Triangular Bridge. I did the first one that was torn down. I also built the rail bridge of the Triggers. Here you are doing this one bridge. I've started the Beška Bridge. Let's get it over with. I finished the Freedom Bridge in Novi Sad. Do you know? I had the Jell-O bridge in mind, but Vojvodina wouldn't accept the funds we were giving because it didn't suit them. It was an election campaign, so they refused. I signed the contract with Maja Gojkovic and the government was providing funds to build the Željev Bridge. You didn't mean to. The newly-sads opposed and did not accept the pre-contract signed by Maja Gojkovic as mayor of Novi Sad because the province's larger Vojvodina did not accept. I've done the border crossings, sir. I did the side of Novi Sad – Zrenjanin, Ruma... Look at what's been done, how many roads have been reconstructed. In 2004, I received a broken pathway. Ibar highway was plowing. The road to Macedonia could not be passed. According to Montenegro, everything was destroyed. At that time, we agreed with the EU, late Prime Minister Djindjic, when the DOS won 2000, to operate two stages of travel infrastructure in Serbia. The first phase – reconstruction and reconstruction, what I have completed and the second phase – the continuation of new corridors, when all this is finished and the existing corridors are reconstructed. We ended it all, and the second phase was to do this. Mr. Dulic, from Novi Sad to Saturday, you will not get new income, but only new obligations, because the road is already under charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42717	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, National MP Maja Lausevic submitted. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vladan Jeremic also submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has also accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42718	Finally, let's say something about this bill. Mr. Dulic, don't interpret that everything I say is referred to your name and name. What I'm going to say specifically about this bill can be sublimed into a few sentences – this should come back; something like this cannot stand in the text of the law as you wrote it. When I say you, I mean the government. Another very important thing is that the public must know that everything they heard in this hall these days about this bill is not written in law, nor in reasoning, but in comments and interpretations that could be regulated on the basis of these provisions of the law and what exists in some programme that no one has seen. At least as far as these people in the O.R. are concerned, and probably people in the government and the Ministry know. If one law is passed, and that law essentially has only two members, where the first member says – this area is left to the Government, the next position – the government can arrange it itself, the third position – this could be valid until a deadline, and the other member – this law takes effect 15 days before we even had the opportunity to see it in hand, please, this is not the law. I believe that this matter, which you have placed in these eight members, cannot be the matter of any law. He can't. I think a large number of speakers today pointed to that as well. The interesting thing is that this law doesn't have any criminal provisions either, they wouldn't punish each other, since this law, in practice, says that the biggest and most important and most responsible work of the executive government in connection with the construction industry that is in crisis is that the government makes a list. This isn't the matter of the law. Now I'm going to go after what's the point, not just to catch the connection with the discussion so far, but to essentially say something and really say what's going on. Mr Dulic, from 2001 to 2001, more precisely 25 January 2001, until today, and so it will be in the days that follow us, only the SRS has criticised all the representatives of the authorities, and you have all changed there, in different aggregate states and names, and in the case of the VAT construction industry, and when it comes to many of the issues you have touched today. However, Beko said – I have become a tycoon since 2000, before that I was. For the sake of the public, if we're talking about what's called the construction industry here, then it's probably not about small private entrepreneurs, it's not about those who are building in some family business ('father and son'), some small construction firm or a craft store, it's about what a large number of construction workers hires. And it's true that it's in trouble. It is also true that if you talk to a Turkish firm, you always ask for a direct contract. I don't know if you know it, since the military has been serving in Turkey for three years, then Turkey is exporting soldiers as labour to the Russian market. Why? To cut budget costs, make some money. Other countries work in a similar way. So our builders were expelled from Russia. Who drove them out? The oligarchs, the state, organized crime and what our construction operation was doing. Is our construction operation today qualified for these big jobs, because only these x's corridors and large high-rise investment facilities are now being talked about? It's said it isn't. I think she is, essentially, but she's not operational because of financial problems. But all of our authorities have been interested only in the financial aspects of the market and the financial market since 2000. I have no intention of calling anyone. Who made a surplus a few years ago today is the same in the government. The justice building was built, right? The state owes 400 million to construction operations. Excuse me, please. What's the message? If the state can be in debt in some commercial business, then the message is that anyone in the commercial business can owe it. If the court can't resolve this issue of government debt to construction operations and subcontractors, and the construction operation is today interested in whether on the agenda of the government's session there will be a conclusion on the rerouting of funds, and they are not able to solve it, then what are we talking about? About one piece of paper with good wishes, which no one would even need to challenge, but something that's impossible a mission. It shows the indifference of our construction firms. Well, it is, it's present. What's the reason for the indifference? Lack of funds. To whom? Well, to the investor. Not with a construction operation, which is a contractor. But, my people, you forget the newspaper texts, that the mafia has entered that sector as well. To make apartments for the market, to sell one apartment five times. So you've passed the law so that all contracts are recorded specifically. So this government said there was such a degree of illegal construction that in some places tens of thousands of housing units were built without a building permit. Here I can only remind Mr. Dulic, if he has a little time to hear me, there's an asphalt base in Rakovica that you've come up with a solution that needs to be removed. You don't really have the power to channel this area. Why? Because the mafia is present in that area. So the authorities responsible for fighting organised crime said Saric invested money in real estate and privatisation. Mr. Dulic, when you go out to the Kosovo entrance here and head for Takovska 1, there is no "Atlas System" facility from Podgorica. Remember? Dusko Knezevic. Not that one, but the other one, Milov. You've come to the conclusion that this permit is no longer valid. An academic artist has been destroyed by a house, three proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, before the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, in front of the police. You've come to a solution to undo it, and an object made. Do you know who will betray those units? It's an American firm. Who's hiding behind an American firm? Darko Charic? You can't touch anything, because the mob owns that area. Now the state will concentrate all its resources where it could appear as an investor, whether as a republic, whether as an autonomous province, whether as a unit of local self-government. Mr. Dulic, this type of volunteerism is unacceptable today in Serbia. You take the money from the Capital Investment Fund, you put the companies on the list, you run their programs, you cut the price? Well, they'll wipe you out of the DS. He'll wipe you out. Well, Bojan Pajtic personally ends up with a meat community. At first, I thought you wanted to discipline all possible authorities and institutions in the name of the state, local self-government dealing with certain investments. No way. Half of Serbia's municipalities are over-indebted. For the past two or three or five years, they've spent so much money, the next four or five budgets can't pay off. How are these local campaigns financed by what means? Hold the water until the masters leave. What's much more dangerous to get out of this situation is a message sent to every citizen of ours. The message is about like this – if you work in a social enterprise, a state-owned company, a restitution company or a strange bankruptcy, etc., the government of the Republic of Serbia will pay the salary. It can be done by Kragujevac, it can be done by Bor, it can do by any place. Where's the message that needs to be done? To make a normal living? There's no message. I can now invite all people who are employed in the state, social and private sector – everyone in the government by pay, because the government has become the biggest employer, running from the agreed economy, sometimes calling for a nice practice of the EU, which we have just not caught, now a little more often calling for the effects of the global economic crisis, which one minister would say has not hit us, on the other hand, that we will profit, after the third disaster. Everything can pass, and the National Assembly should say – our government is trained to make a list, a list. They're not asking most of that kind of demeanor, they're asking for a new monopoly. What happened to "Bellville"? It can't be sold. Four banks connected, failing. The Atlas System won a lot of 34-39 in New Belgrade several years ago. Imagine, someone delivered to us today or yesterday a report from the National Credit Insurance Corporation. Have you seen how many housing loans have entered this program in the last few years? Do you send a message – should we build even though the market will not? Because I just heard that you can't sell some of the objects that are made, the noises are empty. Then why are we building it if it sounds empty? What's causing it to sound empty? Price. Why isn't the price going down? He can't. You have to pay the bank, you have to pay the mob, you have to make 300 percent on every square metre. These are our problems. Indifference is just a consequence, not a cause. It appears in the next stage as a cause. We're a country where there are more housing units than families. You have exclusive locations. The Mafia was laundering money through building real estate. You admitted that when you passed the new law on the prevention of money laundering. You said – and lawyers have to do business and apply the law and control themselves, so there is no dirty money in that story. And for months you've been burdening us with a billion and 350 million drug money being washed in Serbia. And no one answered except Jelasic, who resigned. It's not like the mob financed the construction industry, that she had the potential to hire the construction industry, is it? And then there are some things that I'm really ashamed of and to comment on. This can't be the law. This National Assembly must not adopt. He can't bring something like this. You don't know how much money, who answers, or anything. This is a law that allows them to bypass existing laws – both public procurement and this law, regardless of what is said to be bad, about planning and building. Imagine, parallel jurisdiction in issuing permits. If he doesn't give local self-government, which is in charge, then the Ministry can. Well, where does that go? How can he do that? Explain to me. In what country can he still do that? Although all jobs are related to the construction of entrusted state affairs, even when they are done by the local self-government unit. You want volunteerism. You want to grab jurisdiction and end what you think is supposed to end. I tell you in the beginning it's gonna be bad, because there's no rules, because, for God's sake, there's no rules here. All we have to do here is equalize the individual ministries in the gauge of the means with which they rule. If this for the economy and these other things have so much X, now this has to have so many x's, it has to be there for capital x's. Let's get even, because we're a feudal government. Feed to feed. Where's the construction industry? She's gone. You think this law will affect banks to cut interest rates? Forget it. That's impossible. Ma, you can sell all of the Republic of Serbia's foreign exchange reserves in order to allegedly save the money, only to move foreign exchanges to those who see Serbia as only one washing machine where they need to wash the mafia's money. But no problem will be solved, no worker will be hired. If a construction site opens up, know at the beginning that something's not right. Because, in fact, the Ministry is in a position today that it can't do anything, and if someone is working and there's no building permit, and it can't do anything when it's brought to lift the building permit. And all the building permits, the approvals and those documents, as they're called there, are under glass. No one believes that. There's something behind it. Please, so many millions of euros, the state will shut up. A building operation - who owes it to, how much it owes. Well, my people, until a few months ago, the breaking news in the paper was clearing up the construction mob. They had a fight with each other. And we're talking about the construction industry, the construction site, the construction site where the construction material is produced. Someone's trying to fool us with a story about good wishes. Guys, if we need to put on some paper something called good wishes, believe me, I'm a bigger master than you, I can write it a lot nicer. And, rest assured, not only is this unrealistic, this is essentially dangerous. If it becomes an order for you to propose such laws, then the National Assembly is no longer required. Then the government is enough for itself. Just remember one thing -- it's hard for that country where that big capital can affect politics so much, that people have to accept and agree to what they even, not only deep down, but in four eyes they can challenge. Let me remind you. It's the same situation as yesterday. Someone made us all blush in this room, make it uncomfortable for us critics, that those of you who had to listen to us would be even more uncomfortable because you couldn't defend us. It's the same situation here, except it's not about names and last names, but it's supposed to be some assets that don't exist right now, it doesn't exist as something that needs to be calmed down, there's nothing like an investment that needs to be made, and there's not even the possibility of shutting down that kind of structure of this system. There's no system here. You can't see anything here. Nothing's clear. He can do anything. He can do anything. What is the criterion for it being a building company that meets the conditions? He's gone. They'll be prescribed by the government. How will the government prescribe? Well, you'll see the companies. On what grounds? Well, on a parity basis. What criterion? Local, party, tycoon, criminal, etc. In these big road praises, it seems to me that you only had to do three times: Belgrade – Sremska Mitrovica, Belgrade-Zabela and Belgrade – Padinska Skela. And these paths to go and clear up, so the people can gain trust, to believe that there is a way out of this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42719	Twenty minutes of the parliamentary group's time has been used. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42720	Thank you. The law on the promotion of the construction industry, as a law that first enters the assembly procedure, and treats the matter of subsidies, soft loans and some of the interest that it means encourages certain branches of industry, not only for its consistency, but for human honesty, I must welcome the intention that the state is not guided by regulations but by laws. The fact that others fail to mention it speaks of weakness to acknowledge another’s good initial step. In the cut, the rules should not only talk about those laws that are absolutely not applicable, because they are from 1975, but they should talk about sublegal acts that regulate matter which is normally in the jurisdiction of this legislature. So, the law that encourages the Serbian construction industry, as a measure of doing it in a legal way rather than regulations, is something that needs to be welcomed, and I do it openly and unequivocally. What is the problem is the justification that such a law has only eight members and that much remains to be settled later, such as criteria for who will use these subsidies, and cannot be used by saying that it is almost natural disaster, as a situation in the economy, and the consequences of the global financial crisis as a whole. It is possible to interpret the Law on Public Procurement in one way or another, and it is possible, since I come from the economy and I know how this law has been applied since the first day of 2002, often to use the possibilities for a direct contract and negotiation procedure, but even when the law gives you that possibility, you are obliged to ask the competent authority, or the commission that should grant you that you, in accordance with the law, are otherwise behind the arguments that you are looking for in this shortened procedure, there is a shortcut. But when the Government itself asks for this shortcut to bypass the Public Procurement Act, in terms of the public and in terms of access to all these subsidized funds, the question arises whether we are serious enough and responsible enough if we say this is similar to a natural disaster. As an economist and as a woman who can cook ajvar and prepare lunch, but doesn't mind being a good economist, and in that sense I defend all those women who are engineers, ministers, MPs or doing any job, I have to tell those who don't know it – in the economy none of the phenomena appear as a natural disaster. None of the phenomena in the economy at the moment give a good or bad result, because it is a set of measures in which many predictable and unpredictable factors are in the sad system, but they never perform as good nor as bad effects, such as cloud breakage, as summer rain or as flood. Let us not overlook the crisis and the awareness that we are locked up as an economy here now use as an excuse to act right now and with such a short law, in which much remains to the government, as an executive body, to prescribe, because this, God, has arisen as some natural disaster. Before I specifically ask why you have not adopted the amendment to Article 3, I ask if it is in stimulating the construction industry, as a good measure in terms of crediting production rather than spending, because when you credit production, there will be some workers working there, so they will receive the salary, so their salary will serve to encourage consumption, which is the healthiest way, which is the only way, which means if I support it, I ask – did this law, which to an extreme extent, raises the legal question, think about it, or at least give us a report whether it is opposed to the State Aid Control Act and the law that we have adopted, where we say that each incentive must be so measured not to distort competitiveness? Why do I ask you that? When someone says that we have in the assembly procedure a debate on the law, or when we advocate the rule of law or law, I ask all of us, and I ask you who you are to decide with 126 votes – do you not feel a little bit guilty about saying that someone works by law if we are here making unconstitutional laws or we are making laws that are Lex special, so they question some other laws that allow us to compete or fight monopolies or prevent corrupt roads or prevent, which we don't say, in the construction industry, money laundering? Did the law we are discussing here today and the amendments to it be sufficiently framed in a law that must contain two basic rules – to be just and to have some logic? When I say it's fair, it means it has to do with people, and when we help, we have to help out the widest circle of people, not to give someone through the form of the law in fact incentives, so tomorrow we wonder who's rudely rich and how it's become. And why not admit openly that the largest number of people in this country have become unusually rich precisely by the laws that contained in themselves that call of separation or revenge of the middle class, which was humiliated in those 10 years, or where our tax regulations are deliberately regressive, where we do not tax those who have the most, but rather the others. Now you'll be wondering if it has anything to do with what I'm saying with the amendment to Article 3, and I'll tell you directly that it does. If you're saying that the job is going to get, in Article 3, in the view of which we're looking for, those companies that have a significant number of workers or have technological capacity, so they can employ a significant number of workers... The legal system, the rule of law, the Law of Registration, the Agency for Business Registers, for citizens who do not deal with this business, for those who know it, will not be a surprise, and for those other being the column of Ripley – believe it or not. Someone can report that there's a non-money stake, meaning construction machines and huge technological capabilities, and that it absolutely doesn't document anything, and that it logs in here at this competition, which is not public, but in a negotiating procedure with the government directly, and that it says, "I can hire on the basis of technological capacities, because I have huge machines." In electronic form, modern, civilised, which shortens the time for the company's registration (the company can register two weeks back), it may be assigned a job. This company, which is registered in this easy and fast way, which we have fought with amendments that you have not adopted as well as this one, when you ask, or someone else on the side, who here you do not give the right to complain, says – wait until I see if he really has it, you say – under Article 35. The laws on the registration of economic operators, only an agreement on the value of the non-financial role is submitted and no one has to prove that they have these machines. Article 14 is replaced by the The company law, I now add, is considered to be non-money stakes (that someone has machines, that he has a reputation, that he has reference) roles in things and rights, work and services, as well as shares and actions in other societies, means everything that is stated by the person who electronically enters this into the register. You know what he really has to have? It must have 250, or 500 euros in cash deposit for the company's registration. So, if we have laws where someone doesn't have to guarantee at all, to show the state a document about a machine, a photo, a salary, a list of employees to those who pay taxes, contributions and wages, and it can come to these privileged jobs, it won't be the fault of someone who gets a job, it'll be the fault of the government, who makes laws that make it possible to cheat. It'll be the government's fault, which allows someone to use funds under privileged conditions. That is what I want to correct when, on behalf of my Serbian Progressive Party, I ask that this position be deleted and that in this same Article 3, I ask that in Article 4, where you say that the Government is closer to prescribing the terms and methods of funding for each individual project, where it specifically determines the lowest and highest price, at the stages of the realization, I ask you to add the words "in line with the financing and control practice", as is done when we take international loans. You say no. We as an opposition not to dispute you, but we support you to finance production, a building industry that is a multiplier, but we ask that there is a control of the dedicated use of these funds, only as much as you agree as the Government when in the name of yours, us and future generations we take loans. Is that an undosed request? Is that an unusual request? Is that the opposition putting a plunger in power wheels or helping someone not to cheat on you tomorrow and that you have less to do with supervision or abuse of funds? The fact that you refuse to add this part of the word, that through some unit that will monitor the implementation of the project, as we often read in international agreements, speaks of your desire not to follow the way of money, which is so easy to know, as the distinguished minister said, those peripheral blood vessels, and not that main aorta that you would control, to run somewhere where they don't belong. I see the refusal of amendments as a lack of desire to control the funds for whose right to spend here you address the MPs. I end up with the position of Article 1, where I am, and now I'm going to wake up your attention for one moment, astounded by the explanation. We are asking for changes to local self-government to participate in a decision that will fund projects, and you are telling us in an explanation – local self-government is proposing both of them and participating in these projects. My dear gentlemen, I do not dispute the government's right to pass laws, to regulate our lives by speaking and doing one thing, to advocate one law without applying it in practice, but you do not have the right to replace the meaning of words. To propose a project does not mean that it decides which project will be financed. Is everything really the subject of debate in this country, and what parliament is, and what is the debate, what is victory, what is defeat, what is a lie, what is the truth to question the basic meaning of words? And this isn't a language formulation. This is the constitutional right of local self-government to decide on a project financed by its funds, in part or in whole, local self-government. So, the story of decentralisation, the story of regionalization and uniform development on these terms, that you don't give that right to local self-government, falls into the water. By rejecting amendments to Article 3, where you are commenting on a single position, and the other two you are ignoring, controlling and having to determine what is a significant number of employees or significant means as a mechanism that can enable some people who would participate in these projects to be employed, your intention to regulate by law what some other colleagues, such as Minister Dinkic, are doing to regulations, is not mature enough, is not sincere enough. The refusal of this amendment and I understand, and the very essence of this law is precisely in Article 3 and Article 5, which my colleagues will talk about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42721	Thirteen minutes have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42722	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it would be useful if the minister were with us. It wouldn't be bad to invite him, since you know where he is. In a principle debate, and even today, the minister asked us to, insisted that we make some concrete proposals, and when we discuss concrete proposals, the minister will not sit with us. We, among other things, insisted from the minister on one thing - to find a measure when it comes to arguments that will defend what should be like law. That's when I said that this was more like a pamphlet or an idea solution, in the construction dictionary, based on which it might or should be made a serious law. Because, as the minister presented the law, we got the impression that the construction industry would blossom when it began to apply. Of course, before I speak of a concrete amendment that is now under discussion, I must in principle comment on a few things that the minister has dealt with today. To some opposition MPs, he sent a message about some roads and roads that were paved in campaigns. My question, since the minister is gone, is to the representatives of the majority – where is the law guaranteeing that under such a defined law, schools and schools, kindergartens and kindergartens, small and large hospitals, or all objects of public interest defined here? To manage the experience we have with this government in the last two years through its current activities or to manage examples of campaigns that were extraordinary activities, and the government took part in them? To manage activities that exclusively used the motives of political, party interests, not the interest of economic, or sustainable development, to which the government is called? You'll give us the right to question all of this openly. How can we trust a government who, among other things, had a deadline yesterday to finish a story with a comprehensive regulation reform? How far did you get? Thirty percent of the story is over. The government adopts a decision, adopts recommendations, and then those ministers won't implement it. We're supposed to trust you to handle this sort of thing properly? I'm sorry, but we can't. How much money? You are now boasting that through banks and from the budget of the Republic of Serbia you will provide money for construction projects. How many agreements has the Assembly ratified? You who sit in the halls of the congregation voted for them, and you belong to most of them. How many agreements have you ratified? You can't withdraw money because you don't have project documentation. And nobody cares about that. And you have no obligation because there are no sanctions. There are no measures to pay for these loans, i.e. agreements for which the money is in both the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other financial institutions. Yesterday or yesterday we sat here and the minister boasted that 86% of the municipalities had entered the process of drawing up the planning documentation. That's the story you were supposed to brag about after October 5th. Who will compensate for the damages to the construction industry and the economic picture of this country that ten years ago investors could not invest money in Serbia or had to flee Serbia, because they had neither planned nor urban, nor any other development documentation on which they could invest money in the construction sector or construction area? This is where the minister shows up and says - we gave something concrete, and what do you suggest? You see, it doesn't take a lot of sense around here. The day before yesterday, this congregation majority passed a law. I doubt Mr. Secretary knows what this is about. In this law, you made a commitment that in this year you would initially make 15 million dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget to single out a nonsense such as the Regional School of State Administration. With 15 million dinars, you could have a small construction company in southern Serbia at least now resuscitate, so you could give that money or that the state is financing a project to engage in a construction operation, so that you would have an impact on the liquidity of the company, the liquidity you are calling for under this law. To split the wages, so that through those salaries they would pay the debts to molars, carpenters and all others whom Mr. Dulic had just cited and mentioned. These people won't spend money on luxury. No, because you are not able to provide them with and guarantee their salaries, which the employers who privatised the construction operation will not pay them, and you have no mechanisms to make them reconcile. We are not asking you to ask them for social responsibility, but to reconcile their regular social obligations. You spend money here on nonsense, and then you expect us to have brains and constructive suggestions. In this system or another in the last ten years, the government has put a mortgage on both smart proposals and the measures that problems will solve. Look at our situation in Serbia. Are these the results or sequences of the measure and the wits that you're spreading and that you're proposing? It's obvious they did. I submitted the amendment very specifically. The minister asked for concrete measures. Here I have proposed an amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, to add item 3, after Article 2, in which it is said: "When defining the criteria set out in Article 2 of this Article, the Government is obliged to take particular account of the economic operators in this area according to which the state has debts older than six months, i.e. economic operators that owe to the state on various grounds for more than six months." What's wrong with that? What is there for the concept of government unacceptable? Well, you in the government didn't have an argument to say this was nonsense. You know what you wrote in the explanation that you refused the amendment? That the amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the draft law has established that the Government will set out the criteria for the implementation of the projects by its act, taking into account the proposed criteria contained in the proposed amendment. What's the problem with making a commitment in law? What's the matter? Mr Krasic was right when he said earlier – here, in this law, you only said one thing clearly and Decidedly, and that is that the Government will arrange everything. They will arrange who and how the orderers will order the job, they will arrange the criteria for each project individually, or individually, etc. What was disputed about the government’s commitment through the law to something that would directly affect the liquidity of construction operations, that is, construction industries, construction production, or service providers in the building sector? What was the issue? And now I need, after all, to take your word for it? We really can't do that. This is what you should have accepted, to really recognize the measures Mr. Dulic is talking about, and to really recognize in the outlines the effects you are calling on and the ones you're talking about to produce this law. How much do workers owe, how many construction companies owe to the state? A vicious circle. This is a model to solve it, but to believe you're going to say that you're going to define it through government documents, sublegal acts, that, I'm convinced, I can't think of two-thirds of the people sitting in this parliament who are voting for the bill that the government is sending here, because they have bad experience with the government, or the law that the government is bound to do when they're adopted by the Assembly. Mr. Dulic knows very well, and of course I do, and we've had a chance to talk about some problems, he knows well that it all ends at his good will and everything in the administration and hierarchy below him, he schedules everything. You can kill yourself, you just can't solve the problem. What's his good will worth to us? Who trusts the government? But when it says something in the law, then at least you have a bit of hope that you're going to get caught up in or you're going to call tomorrow, and you're going to call the government in an argument. What responsibility can Mr. Dulic or any other minister and from us tomorrow – what do you suggest? We suggest, you don't adopt. The government will determine for itself what it will do, and then we will bear the responsibility of unreasonable decisions, unfortunately, to share everyone in Serbia and to bear the burden of these missed decisions and projects together, and to boast – we have taken responsibility. And when we ask to participate in all this, to make part of the contribution, then the government turns and says, "We will consider it without you." You, in fact, have written that in an explanation for the refusal of this amendment. It would be very useful to hear Mr. Dulic tell us what he thinks about this, what are the true and essential reasons why this is not as a measure taken, why the government bypasses to accept the measure in which the loans, i.e. on the basis of the measures laid down in this law, will be given to companies to whom the state owes, or who owe the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42723	Ten minutes of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used. National MP Dragan Stevanovic, an authorised representative, is available for 15, i.e. at this time for another five minutes. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Milentijevic and Arsen Djuric. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42724	Madam President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, it is quite clear to me that the Government has not accepted the amendment to Article 5, which was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia, but I do not understand why it has not accepted the amendment to Article 3 of this Law. Article 3 states that when implementing these projects, domestic building materials must be used in the participation of at least 70% of the total building materials and equipment installed in the facility. We asked for a kind of control to be introduced and specifically submitted an amendment that reads - in Article 3(3) after the words "from the main project" are added: "with the mandatory control of the supervisory authority, which will report to the investor of the project on the percentage of the participation of the construction material of domestic production". It is an interesting explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia. In an act adopted by the Government, it is possible to provide for a provision for an investor to commit a person who has ordered to carry out expert supervision, and the law says that he must use domestic building material (if he has to, who will have to control it? ) and predicts that the Government in its regulation can and is possible to designate a supervisory authority that will exercise control exactly as proposed by this amendment. Then why wasn't this amendment accepted?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42725	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42726	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm really sorry Mr. Oliver Dulic isn't in the O.R. You'd probably understand what the objective of this amendment is. The objective of this amendment is to regulate, edit and introduce a key concept into the legislation. It's transparency, responsibility and decency. I believe Mr. Dulic advocates these fundamental values when we talk about transparency, accountability and decency. With this amendment of ours we wanted and predicted, this Mr Milentijevic explained nicely, that there is also some kind of control over the consumption of materials from domestic production. Obviously Mr. Dulic doesn't want that. He accepts neither transparency nor responsibility, nor jurisdiction. And in response to the government, or the resolution ministry, it is written that it is possible for the investor to accept it all. There may be a lot of things in Serbia, it is possible that we have come out of the crisis, statistically speaking. Here, citizens, you're living off the statistical exit from the crisis. There may not be any corruption in Serbia in healthcare, it may be a controversial phenomenon. Here's today and the effect of this controversial phenomenon. It is possible that Mr. Dulic will be able to fill his property chart properly in the next period. And that's possible, but there's not only one thing that's possible, and that's to change one situation in Serbia. And this situation in Serbia is today -- in the country of Serbia, very early in the morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42727	Two minutes have been used by the MPs' group. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I don't think it's really right that Mr. Minister isn't present in the O.R., especially for the reason he's been looking for concrete solutions when it comes to this law. When the order came to speak with the MPs of the SRS, where we offer concrete solutions, he is not in the O.R. I think you should react, but fine. I have submitted an amendment to article 3 of this law and believe me, I knew this would be the answer. When we talk about concrete solutions, here's a concrete solution, which the government has rejected. In fact, my amendment is that Article 3(3) changes and reads: "For the realisation of projects under this law, domestic building materials and equipment must be exclusively used." Let's just say we don't question your good intentions, that you have ambitions to help our construction industry and that you have the best intentions to help our construction industry. If you had accepted this amendment, you might have convinced us that you had good intentions. We know that you have fenced yourself with this 70 percent stake, but this was a concrete proposal where you could meet our construction operation and our construction companies, many of which have become unequivocal primarily thanks to this government's policy. The very fact that this law has come into the assembly procedure and that application is armed by 31.12.2011 leads us to doubt and we are absolutely certain that it has a political character above all and that it will be used exclusively for political purposes. You've had opportunities here in the National Assembly, and we MPs, to see that the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, Miss Alexander Jerkov, has also submitted three amendments. You can see that the young lady is not responding, not reacting for one simple reason. I have to read it for the public. The explanation she received for not accepting the amendments says that the amendment is not accepted because the bill is set out in such a way that the government determines projects financed by the budget, taking into account proposals both by competent ministries and by the authorities of local self-government units throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and hence also by the territory of the Autonomous Region. You didn't convince us, did you? Are you saying that Bojan Pitiæ can be affected by how money is shared from the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42729	People's MP, I warn you to talk about the agenda point, and in your treatment of other MPs who are the amendment's submissions to take care of the obligation to respect members who prescribe mutually polite treatment. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42730	Mrs. Comic, that's exactly what I'm talking about. And you're from Novi Sad, from Vojvodina, and you know... May I continue? On a few occasions, we asked whether in any way any institution controlled the use of funds from the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. You say local self-government should participate in projects and you'll consider it. Here, I'm going to give you a concrete example where you didn't consider it, and how you split the money. There are municipalities, Mrs. Komic, who have been working on designing projects for the past five years, and on quality projects. One project is very interesting, for example, for Mr. Dulic. It is the second ecological sewerage in Serbia. Do you know how the Fund approved the funds? One year, five million, two years, seven million, just to cover your eyes. And you know why? Because Serbian radicals were in power in the municipality. There are other projects that have been completed, a large series of projects were to be entered into the program and they had their justification. One of the projects is road infrastructure, where Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic said last year that we are absolutely right, that this road is necessary and that it should be done. You confirmed that this year in the campaign, when there were local elections in Odjac. Since then, however, absolutely nothing has been done. It is evidence of politicisation, and we are sure that this law will only be applied in those municipalities where elections are called. And they will be in a large number of municipalities, you believe, in the next period. This decision by the Constitutional Court will bring many local self-government problems and we will be in a position to hold elections in a large number of municipalities. You will certainly use this, because you have specified this by law, where you are avoiding the Public Procurement Act and you are giving the possibility for a negotiated procedure without a public call, that the Government has absolutely the right to set the priority of projects and that projects are being done that it thinks are in priority. We've had opportunities to hear here that the minister mentions the builders, the carpenters, the army, the moths, etc. These people and a large number of builders are unfortunately left to themselves today, and now they work with tycoon and people who in a suspicious way have come to a large capital. I can freely say that the construction mafia has spread so much that this government can no longer influence it. If the government has good intentions, then it should, first of all, visit the construction sites, see how many people work on black, how many people work without insurance, without any authority that belongs to them, that the auxiliary workers work for 100 dinars per hour, that they only have two options – whether they work that way or not. Unfortunately, the situation in our country is that they are forced to work for 100 dinars per hour, that their daily is 1,000 dinars, they have to pay travel costs themselves and bear costs for one or two meals. In this way, I'm sure you won't be able to help the companies that have come to the crisis primarily thanks to you, and the problems have been dragging since 2000. You've destroyed the economy, and that's one of the reasons why the construction industry is now in a situation like this. We also have a chance to tell you, and here Mr. Velimir Ilic seems to have made me a lapus when he said he wanted to build the Željev Bridge in Novi Sad and that he did not come across the understanding of the province's administration, that he said Seselj's bridge. I think he's absolutely right and nobody shined till dawn. Soon you'll have a chance to see for yourself. Don't worry, the citizens of Vojvodina, when the SRS comes to power, that bridge will be built and called the Seselj Bridge, because Vojvodina wants to be the pride of Serbia in any case, not the stone around Serbia's neck. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42731	Seven minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42732	I think a lot of things that could be recognized as sufficient reason for the amendment to be adopted in the light of this. What was the idea of the SRS when fellow Prelic proposed this amendment? That the character of the projects you will be dealing with through this law is defined by the criteria that the government will prescribe exclusively as projects where domestic building material will be fully used. We don't know who else to talk to anymore. Now you also have opposition to those who are calling for the interventionism of all powerful countries in the world and then across the street from them, Mr. Dulic says – all the serious and modern states in the world have applied interventionism in crisis. But when you decide to intervene, the SRS has one view of intervention. The state can't interfere with business, but it has to create preconditions for doing the job uninterruptedly. What are our preconditions, this is the ranking of this country in that list of "duing businesses", you know, the World Bank and other relevant economic institutions. What now? If you've already defined yourself as interventionism, let him go all the way. Who can limit you to that now? Who are you going to justify to be defined as 20-30-40 billion, which is the state's money, what are the loans that the state is about to repay, don't determine everything the way you want it to be? You think you're going to derivating the Public Procurement Act? That's not true, but we'll talk about it later. If you'd done it through this law, you'd have abused it in this law. But since you've already intervened, you've had an obligation to complete your projects with domestic building materials and equipment. There is no building material and equipment that represents exclusively luxury, which is not being created today in Serbia. That you who come from this world know very well. But this way, 70 percent is either political or financial or I don't know what kind of pressures I'm inspired by, and under the influence of who knows who or who knows what. That's why we can't believe it. Be careful what you say in your explanation – it is not accepted because the bill does not exclude the possibility of using exclusively domestic material and equipment when implementing the project. You intervene, interfere in some business, engage the state, and on the other hand open the possibility that everything can be used from Serbia. Well, it's got to be all domestic. It's effective. If it's not all homework, then don't get involved in this. I guess that's the point of State intervention. I'll remind you of the two laws you've voted for here, the agreements you've ratified. With the Republic of Italy, she gave you 30 million euros, but you know what she's conditioned you to? That 70% of the equipment and services will be provided in Italy. They give us a loan, we repay the loan and we pay the interest on it and more conditions that 70% of the goods and equipment, i.e. take the service from Italy. And we accept it. So a few days ago, the Turks offered us money for roads in the Rasca area. Not only have they defined who will be the performer, but they have defined the routes you were obliged to accept (or because of political weakness). You pay them back, you pay the interest, and you accept all the conditions that those who make money on us. And now, when you get a chance to do something for yourself, at least here it's being represented, that you want to do for our construction industry, you're not in a position to prescribe and define the criteria that 100% of construction materials and equipment will be from Serbia. Will you buy ceramic tiles in Italy? What's wrong with Kanjiji and Vienna? What's wrong with the construction material from "Balkan Brick" from Vlad's Han, which you privatized and destroyed? What's wrong with the construction material "Youth" from Vlasotanc, from Leskovec? There's nothing wrong with it. The factory worked until privatization, from privatisation to total chaos. Ask people what kind of pressures and under what conditions they work there. Why don't you help these people? Equipment for these facilities listed in the law can be found in both Serbia and schools, and for kindergartens, hospitals and other health institutions, apartments, highways, sports facilities, cultural facilities or other public facilities. No one can limit what you're going to define as a project in this. And that made sense. Now, one serious thing you're making a mockery of, and you want to convince us that it's something serious, from your intentions, to the result that a law like this should give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42733	The time of the mandated representative and one minute and 10 seconds of the parliamentary group has been used. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Bojana Stanojevic submitted. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s Parliament of Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Vladimir Milentijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42734	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'd like to welcome Mr. Minister, but he's not here. Since this law is an emergency procedure, I would ask you, Mrs. Komic, to call upon him to come here and, if possible, adopt some amendments to the opposition by an urgent procedure. Since this law has caused an extremely large controversy and attention among MP groups, we as the DSS parliamentary group can say that we have nothing against helping the construction operation, but not in the way the government has offered us. The law of eight members will not help the construction operation. On the contrary, it will even cause many corruption affairs, as the government itself gives one in-house authority the discretionary right to choose contractors and hence cause certain affairs. Well, in the government itself, we have ministers who are shareholders of certain companies, and you can't convince me that these shareholders in these companies aren't going to throw themselves a job. That's why we said it would be good for this law to withdraw from the procedure, to comply with the Public Procurement Act. The DSS parliamentary group has submitted several amendments. I see the Ministry hasn't accepted any. My esteemed colleague Vladimir Milentijevic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, which speaks of funding certain projects through this law. We asked that the railways be included in this law. Since trains on our railways are going at 40 km per hour, we will not be able to get to Europe at that speed, believe me, Mr. Krasic, while the French trains (Thank you, Mr. Minister, you have come for an urgent procedure, since the law is by emergency procedure. ) go all over Europe at a speed of 300 km per hour. The second reason we submitted this amendment is that certain railways, i.e. The railroad route has to be removed, and they could be financed under this law. We have such an example in Predean, in principle I mentioned it, where we have to make one loop, and in order to make a loop, we have to move the rail, i.e.. The railroad track and that way Prediane gets a window into the world. If this is not done, and we have no information, Mr. Minister, neither from your ministry nor from the Ministry of Capital Investment, so we don't know if this idea project that we have offered you and which presented the Leskovec Building Directorate has been accepted... In the end, I want to finish my word because we have very little time as a parliamentary group, and my fellow MPs will also say, I simply don't understand why this law was laid down until 2011. I guess the government thinks we'll get out of the crisis then, but we have a hint from the Prime Minister himself that we're not in any kind of crisis at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42735	The time used by the parliamentary group is a minute and 20 seconds. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot agree with the minister's claim that we had to pass this law because of the slow implementation of the Law on Public Procurement and to refer it to some temporary period, and that it was all the world economic crisis and the rude bidders of the work. The budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budgets of most local self-government are adopted in December for next year. The adoption of the budget, and the local self-government of the plan and the construction directorate programme, provides funds for investments in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. units of local self-government. From that moment on, any public undertaking, the local self-government unit and the ministry can start the procurement procedures, because the funds needed to implement these works, provided by the Budget Law, or by the decision on the budget of the unit of local self-government, are very clear positions, analytical concepts and the amount of funds to be implemented public procurement. I can see that Mr. Minister has not long participated in public procurement procedures, so he doesn't even know what's going on and how all people, when they're rude or hectic, are able to do or even avoid the Public Procurement Act. I had, say, a public procurement situation in the ad mentions what kind of brick should be, what dimensions, what color. Come on, it can all be in the ad, but I can't understand how it says the name of the manufacturer. I don't need to mention that no one has ever been responsible for such a public procurement. The minister says - all these actions will be done by the government. Mr. Minister, it's an honor to you, but I don't exactly trust this government, that she's capable of doing this with honor and honesty. Now I'm going to tell you why. If a small municipality with a modest budget can ensure that its roads are paved at twice the lower price on the territory of the same municipality, similar roads, similar bases, almost the same length, for twice as much funding as the Ministry of National and Investment Plan, it is impossible for people who run the municipality to be more capable than the staff of the Ministry. I'd say they're just more honest. That's why I don't believe you that this law will achieve the effects you want, or at least as you said in explaining this law. It would be better if instead of this law we had a much better law on public procurement. Unfortunately, everyone here talked about the republican public procurement, and they forget about the purchases carried out in local self-government units. So often we have that when the budget is approved, we vote the Directorate's plan and let's say 20 blocks are planned to be arranged and paved, 20 public procurements are conducted, all public procurements are four-five-six, up to 10 million dinars, there are three bidders, and all offers are very similar. When you look at the balance for all 20 public procurements, you will see that all three bidders received about the same amount of money. Some new law on public procurement could limit that – you can't implement 20, you can only have one, so let those who are the most equipped, the best quality, the best, the best price. Because who's going to pursue a construction effect from Novi Sad or Belgrade for a three or four million dinar job? No one will. But that's why local contractors are going to profit and earn extra money because there's no one to make a better offer than they are, and of course, a little bit in collaboration with those who order the works. All these wishes, Minister, which you have given when it comes to this law, fall into the water, regardless of what we have tried to do with our amendments to correct one of these laws, to invoke certain written or unwritten rules in practice, in European and world terms. But if people agree, even something like that can be avoided and abused. Here is the report I hold in my hand, the public document, on the work of the water supply project of the town of Pogorec, i.e. the reconstruction of the water line. One part of the funds is provided by the European Union, one part by local self-government. It's been followed by all those written and unwritten rules about how it should be arranged. So surveillance is provided, implementation unit is provided, contractors are provided, and all in collaboration with the European Union. I will now read to you a part of that report: "On 4.8.2009, a meeting of the implementation unit and the supervisory unit was held with the deputy mayor, related to the missing resources on the project and the dynamics of the work. The Water Construction and Hydro Machine Authority noted that the species lacks 241.850 euros in funding. The supervisory authority said that construction works lack 221,000 euros and for electro-work as well as for automation, 500,000 euros are missing. The supervisory authority requests the City Council of Pogorec to provide the missing funds totalling 963,078 euros. "You must agree that for the town of Pogorec, which has a serious budget, this is a pretty large amount. If they'd tried to get along for 100, 150 or 200,000 euros, maybe they'd have gotten away with it. Since the amount was large and the city's budget reached its maximum, a commission was created to determine the real value of the missing funds. And the real value of the missing funds is – preparations are under way for the signing of Annex 3 contracts that will define the city's allocations of 191,897 euros as missing funds for electro-work. The difference, Mr. Minister, is 310,000 euros. The special contract, which is also in preparation, between the town of Pogorec and the contractors of Strabaga's works, will regulate obligations and the amount of missing funds for hydromachines, with an estimated amount of 230,000 euros. It was admitted by the contractor, the commission report and such an annex contract were signed. Someone tried, Mr. Minister, to damage the citizens of the town of Pogorec by 550,000 euros. The supervisory authority, in co-operation with the performer of Strabag's works, signed the positions that Strabag was looking for unreal. For the matter to be even worse, the session of the City of Pogorec Assembly was held on 22 May this year, which discussed this report and gave consent to the mayor to sign an Annex 3 contracts (meaning, I hold in my hands two public documents), and no one reacts to the attempted fraud and robbery of the citizens of Požerevac – not the police, no more prosecutors, no more fundamental ones. Mr. Minister, there are hundreds of cases like this in Serbia, so be sure of that. This law of yours can only take effect when at least half of them are prosecuted and they get the fines they deserve. By then, this will only serve as a way for someone to get extraprofits and to be convinced that everything he's done and not in accordance with the law will never fit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42737	Seven minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42738	Mr. Minister, there's something I have to say since you're here now. We asked you to attend this debate because you asked for concrete suggestions. We made concrete proposals. The reasons are lame and unfounded and it might be more useful if we heard you too why you didn't accept something that, according to what you said, represents what you were looking for, means, specifically, the proposed measures you've foreseen, if you can even call it measures, in this pamphlet. But here you have come to this member who is very interesting and who may have opened the most controversy today, which refers to the Public Procurement Act. Today, a number of MPs have said that you have suspended the Public Procurement Act by this law. I think you've abused him. So, you have built in this law the procedure provided for in the Law on Public Procurement and the SRS considers that the essential problem that you have just defined yourself for this type of procedure, because before it you have had an open and restrictive procedure and a negotiated procedure with a public call, but you have defined yourself as a negotiation procedure without a public call. What did we propose with the amendment? Our amendment suggested that it be a restrictive procedure. Now watch what you've written in your explanation. In your explanation, you wrote that the amendment is not accepted because by deleting Article 5, the objectives of this law could not be achieved. I have not suggested eradicating this article, I am not so unserious and irresponsible, whatever I think of your law, which is unspeakable, short, as it should not be, since it refers to a very important and broad area that is in a situation as it is in Serbia today. I suggested you apply a restrictive procedure. Give me one reason why this would be unacceptable for you. Everything written in the Public Procurement Act, which refers to a restrictive procedure in the implementation of public procurement, you could also find that the measures of this law are recognised in them, that is to implement through this procedure everything you wanted through this law, while at the same time giving a guarantee for a greater and higher vision and public and transparency, as well as legal certainty. Do you really believe that you can convince us of what you just said about supercontrol, etc.? I said a little while ago, so you and I know, we talked about how the administration works, what problems you and the state are facing, and we end up being users of these services, about these things and things like this, and even things that don't concern this law and this matter. Go to Surdulica today, which you mentioned several times in the principle debate. I'm glad she became at least recognizable in the congregation debates, but go to that municipality today to see what's going on there, what a pointless project for 70 million dinars started in that municipality. Your party has blessed the local government in Surdulica. When you realized what they were like, you abandoned her. But today, the state doesn't have the mechanisms to stand up to "Skadra on Boyna." Seventy million dinars will cost citizens, whether those municipalities or all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to be spent in nonsense. The leadership boasts that they could spend more money on the same project, but only 70 will be spent. That's their advantage, they're hosts. And that's a project that no one will benefit from. There may be some aesthetic change, but essentially, in the context of sustainable development, which is full of mouths (not just for you, but for the government, I mean it), there's nothing, there's not a single word. Much more important things stand, waiting for others, responsible, committed to public interest, and projects of the type "Skadar na Bojana". In this economic agony, we build municipal administration buildings, while firing workers. Will that be an example? Will it be rappers for the perception of the application of this law? Can you guarantee me that you will stand up to such things? Not only in Surdulica, in any municipality in Serbia, everything is equally important. That's why we thought that the kind of public procurement that needs to be conducted must be the one that will give a higher level or guarantee transparency or public or control, if that's what you want. You've identified the state and the situation in the country because of the economic crisis with an elemental accident. Is the government a natural disaster or an economic crisis in the world? I can understand the procedure in this law that you foresee to apply in Trade, Gadgin Han. Mr. Minister, ten days have been cut off in one and the other municipality of the village. I'm not going to trade that accident, but I'm talking about the efficiency of the administration that's required to deal with it. How much does it depend on public procurement procedures? There no one would blame you for bypassing any law on public procurement and you could find space for such action through regulations, sublegal acts and, if you will, and in law. In that case, no one would blame you for one of these laws to come here at one hour a night to adopt, but to respond to the places where it really should be. The municipalities I mentioned, Ub, Mionic, Lykovac, or the municipalities in Vojvodina that my colleague mentioned at the beginning of this debate. In those cases, no one would take you for harm and no one would cause a problem. But you called for it, given the fact that Serbia has been in an economic crisis for two years. An economic crisis that one part of the government didn't want to accept, in an economic crisis that the other part of the government saw a development opportunity for, and our very good prime minister came out of an economic crisis, which he never entered at the same time. You weren't there before, I said – you're asking us to take this seriously or not to recognize the bad intentions in all of this. A moment ago you mentioned VAT, a tax that certainly concerns this whole story. The finance minister proposes tax reform to ease her soul. We're dealing with VAT to make it easier for the minister's soul, because he can't handle his government colleagues. I mentioned that to you yesterday. The National Bank and the Government cannot agree on a loan, i.e. a lease, that would act stimulatingly on everything called the real estate market, and yet, on the other hand, on the construction industry, on construction operations. It's not just the law. You know what happens in the area of public procurement. Well, the committees of the unfortunate Europe, in which you want to go, which is more and more believed in, which will fall apart while you build, if you ever build them, standards in Serbia to enter that EU of yours, write to you what your state of public procurement is. And you're aware of your state of administration in public procurement procedures. That was the reason and motive for you not to reach the most liberal in this law, if I may say so, by measure, by type and procedure of public procurement. We just can't believe it. Especially after yesterday's scandal, which we believe isn't the first, which is the story of health care, etc. Today, when we're halfway through the construction season and, as long as we get the conditions for applying all this, we believe that it will be over and over, we are calling for basic disasters to deal with a negotiation procedure without a public call. You know for a fact that the story is going to be Burazerish and that combinations are going to be like that so that jobs are done with those where we will have either political or economic, or financial interest. I don't mean anything personal to your address to direct, but our experiences with the government and with the authorities of the government are indeed such that we rightly and openly question the good intentions of the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42739	Eight minutes have been used by the MP's group. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milić, Judita Popović, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42740	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, here is one member - six views and three bad solutions in one legal member. I think it's a little too much. The first bad solution is to end the tender for the next year and a half for the construction industry (an explanation of why this is so consists of Serbia's haste, Serbia is urgent to solve the problem of the construction industry), as well as the tender gardeners. I would also like to remind the government and Mr. Minister that everything is really urgent in Serbia, that we had to do everything yesterday, not tomorrow. As far as the bass tender was concerned, if this phenomenon was observed, it was time to move forward with a way of solving how to avoid these negative phenomena. The second bad solution is that the criteria are subsequently established, so that we do not have clear criteria and that they will be established by the Government by their regulations. Unfortunately, we know what it looks like when the government rules such a serious issue. The third bad solution is that the protection of the rights of the bidder and of the public interest is delayed for later, so that they do not retain the execution of that deal, the agreement that will be implemented. We believe that these are very bad solutions and that, in any case, exclude competition, favour the monopoly and favour any kind of party influence on future negotiating processes in the construction industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42741	The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Milentijevic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42742	Madam President, Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, before I move on to Article 5, I would like to take the time to ask you – why did the Government of the Republic of Serbia not accept the amendment to Article 3rd paragraph 3 submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, when it fully agrees with it, and leaves the possibility, rather than the need, as said Article 3(3), that construction material of domestic production must be used? Whether the older law, which obliges, or an act that will be passed by the Government, is not clear to me, but well. As far as I'm not sure why the DSS amendment to Article 3 was not accepted, it's so clear to me why it wasn't accepted on Article 5. Approximately, the objective of this law is not Article 2 but of this Article of the 5th Law. Mr. Minister, in the opening statement in the debate, which was led in principle today, you have reached several conclusions. You concluded that for the recovery of the construction industry there were no conditions before, because you were waiting for the time to mature. You have concluded that this law will open thousands and thousands of construction sites. You've concluded that this law is the only way we can do it. That you personally intend to prevent abuse. You compared skates, floods and disasters to the global economic crisis. You say you've heard a lot of criticism on the bill, but you haven't heard any concrete solutions to how to help our operation and that no one has offered an alternative to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has offered this law. And besides, a few questions are likely to be discussed on the day we discuss amendments. The Democratic Party of Serbia in principle supports this law and the need to pass such a law, but is against the procedure in which the law will be implemented and continues to feel that it is not good. The key objection by the DSS is to Article 5 of this Act, which suspends the Public Procurement Act, regardless of the global economic crisis. That is why Mr Arsen Đurić and I, on behalf of the DSS, submitted an amendment to Article 5, where we provided that Article 5 should be amended and read as follows: "All projects envisaged by this law are subject to the Public Procurement Act". The DSS parliamentary group was convinced that we would have no need to discuss the amendment to Article 5 of this law because the amendment had to be accepted. What mechanisms did the Government of the Republic of Serbia provide by this law for corruption, except suspending the Law on Public Procurement and prescribing that the regulation would adopt additional acts to regulate this matter? You are applying the negotiation procedure without a public call being published. You've waited this long to mature the conditions for the adoption of this law, and now you're applying the negotiation procedure to make up for lost time. You may be able to make up for it, but this way only to the detriment of the Serbian and Serbian citizens' budgets. You say you have sincere intentions to prevent abuse. What are these intentions if you legalize corruption by law? Do you feel that all those involved in the negotiation process have sincere intentions like you? I'm convinced you don't. You, Mr. Minister, in the debate on this law at one point began to draw contractors by stating that you would create several categories of construction enterprises with the criteria regulation, and then you instructed how many workers, how many mixers, how many trucks, etc. Did you have in mind that you were violating Article 39? The law on public procurement, that "the client cannot enter into a competitive documentation to include any provision that would result in favouring or eliminating individual bidders"? Finally, will the citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia benefit more from the public calling, in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement, construction starts and a month later than the time foreseen by the negotiation process or by this law that enables corruption? Will we be especially happy to have an honest intention to prevent abuse? So far, prosecution authorities have been able to investigate cases that are not in line with the Public Procurement Act, but now, by the end of 2011, they do not have the possibility to do so when it comes to the construction industry. Therefore, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept the DSS amendment, which will exclude abuses, and certainly will not be eradicated, because most businesses have done big jobs so far in the negotiation process, made huge profits, turned into giants, gained the government's trust and now stood in line for the jobs offered by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42743	Five minutes and 20 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42744	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm just going to ask you, before you tell me how long my parliamentary group has time. (President: five minutes and 20 seconds. Thank you, Madam Chairman. What my colleague Vladimir Milentijevic said and behind which it is clear that every normal citizen of this country stands, is that no one can be against the need to run any industry, of course the construction industry, in this country. It's a little strange, though, that industry is being driven by just the ones who buried her, but let's believe that's what they want. But what is controversial about the DSS is the way you want to run it, in fact by suspending all the laws that we have passed in this National Assembly, which are indeed positive regulations in this country – the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Planning and Construction, but also international contracts signed by Serbia, let's say the Cefta Treaty. I don't understand why you don't change the Public Procurement Act if you don't like it that much already. In fact, when I think about it a little bit, and after today's discussion, I totally understand why. Just because you want to keep everyone else playing by the same rules you prescribed, except that those rules apply to you. You'd be kind of elegant to get around them and not to be related to you. I have to say, and you pointed out that there are situations and that the Law on Public Procurement of that situation provides, when it is possible that this law is not applied to certain situations, but that you, and that's kind of small, and that's where you're trying to get through. What is quite clear today, after this discussion, which is about to end, is the obvious intention of the promoter to put out the Public Procurement Act by calling for legal principles, to later adopt a special law enforcing the application of the law that was previously passed and which is of general character. Therefore, since the Law on Public Procurement is a system law governing the area and since the fact that Serbia, according to analyses, is 83rd in place by corruption in the world, with a very high corruption index of 3.5, the DSS parliamentary group really cannot accept that you derrogate the Public Procurement Act in any way. You can explain to us that this is not true, but if you derivate certain basic things, such as that there is no public call, such as saying that there is a possible surveillance (absolutely disagree, surveillance must be required), then you cancel the objection, then we can't talk about you applying the law. It's simple, you don't apply it. Don't mention now the DRI report and the famous story, which you know about 11,000,000 euros spent – no public procurement, no competition, no calls, no direct contract – for mosquitoes, ticks and ambrosia. It is probably quite clear to you that the DSS will never accept the way you are trying to spend taxpayers' money on Serbian citizens. What is for us the principle of governmental action is that as little money as possible is given as possible, i.e. that for as little money as possible, Serbian citizens get the greatest service possible. In order to achieve this, public proceedings are needed and tendering is needed. That is why it is completely unclear why you want to skip the very things that are important – the public, the openness and, in a way, the competition of the bidders. When you end it, of course you open the door for corruption, and that is what the Prime Minister, Minister Dacic, Minister Malovic, is talking about, too, Serbian President Boris Tadic. And in the meantime, while that's a horror story, we've made so much progress on that list, with 85th place by corruption we've come to 83rd place. I'm afraid we're moving on with this law. I see a few of my colleagues are wondering why the elemental accidents are mentioned. I come from the Colubary County, who has had an accident that in the past month, thanks to your government's inability and irresponsibility not to pay for an anti-urban missile, suffers from the city twice and from floods multiple times. It is a huge shame for the Kolubar district, but the biggest damage to the Kolubar district is this government, which is the biggest elemental disaster and I'm afraid there was neither, nor will there be more damage to the Kolubar district and to all Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42745	The 6th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42746	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Members of the 6th, is merely continuing to pursue the poor resolutions of Article 5 of this Law. It's been a year since the Law on Planning and Construction was passed. The LDP also warned last year that the law in the predominantly part is inconclusive. Otherwise, it was admitted by the ministry that local self-government was not very good at implementing the law. I'm talking about most local self-government. If this Article 6 is to be applied, this means that most local, construction and use permits will actually be issued by the competent ministry, which is indeed unacceptable and inadmissible, as centralisation is further forced and usurped by the authority of local self-government. It is indeed unacceptable for one ministry to decide on local, construction or use permits. What does that mean in a specific case? This means that it will most likely, given that it will also be centralised, and how it will take time from the moment of handover of the documentation to the moment of realization and documentation relating to those permits. So far experience points to such a case. Where, then, is the speed and urgency called upon by the Ministry, or Government, when proposing this law for adoption? Unfortunately, the suspension of the tender, the abolition of competition, the introduction of monopolys and the disabling of the protection of the right of the bidders open the door to corruption, and corruption is more effective when criteria are not defined and everything depends on one centre. Is that so in this case too, I think it's enough to read the law and make it clear to everyone that it is, not to mention that this law is in some of its solutions in direct contrast to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Therefore, the LDP reserves its right to launch an assessment of the constitutionality of individual solutions if this law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42747	The 6th Amendment was submitted by National MP Bojana Stanojevic. The government has accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was also submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42748	Let me just ask you to tell me how much time there is left for the parliamentary group. (President: 17 minutes and 20 seconds. There's plenty. I wanted to say that this amendment primarily aims at criticising the Ministry in some way, which has been defined as putting the government and itself in a privileged position compared to private investors. Because in the event that a local self-government does not issue an appropriate building and use permit, the Ministry has taken over the right to issue that permit, which is extremely inappropriate and clearly a lack of the Law on Planning and Construction. The position of the SNS is, if the Ministry is already aware that this law is not applied in some part of it, that it should have gone, here at this session, with amendments to that law, that we all put ourselves in the same position rather than the state, the state administration puts over private investors. Therefore, it is generally the SNS's view that it is necessary to start reforming public institutions. It's obvious that many public institutions in our country don't function, that many are bureaucratized, inefficient, and that's why, after all, we don't have enough foreign investment. This is often insisted by government officials, but as long as we close our eyes to the problems that follow the realisation of these investments, as long as we run from the real situation on the ground, they will probably not be in enough scope. I would like, at the end of this debate, to make my personal point. It seems to me, unfortunately, that this law is complete with this concept, in a way, the plagiarism of the National Investment Plan. In the draft law, Article 4, the government defined what projects they were. These are schools and kindergartens, hospitals, apartments, highways, sports facilities, cultural facilities and other facilities of public importance. We already have it in the NIP, we have the Ministry of National Investment Plan. It seems to me, unfortunately, that there is a gap in the coordination between ministers and perhaps between political parties that form the ruling coalition. The desire, in this case, is for the Democratic Party to work and build on Serbia as well. That this law may be much more in the interest of a future election campaign than it is in the interest of the construction industry, it will appear in some future period. What's also for me, as someone who comes from the inside, is also quite unacceptable in this law, is the fact that the Ministry controls all investments in local self-governments, which there is little anyway. The Ministry introduces some criteria that we do not have in the law, on which it will decide who will be able to work, who will be able to meet these conditions and eventually implement these projects, not only when it comes to money coming from the Republic, but also when it comes to money coming from municipalities and from the province. And what criteria they're going to be and what businesses are going to favour, that's something we're only going to see after this law is passed. I'm afraid these criteria will be too harsh for a large number of construction companies inside, with very little potential. In particular, in Pomorava County, in the municipalities of Jagodina, Čuprije and Paracin, I can often see that these construction companies are engaged in some business projects with the help of a couple of mixers and manual cranes. But regardless, they hire citizens from their environments, and those profits they make leave in those environments from which they themselves are economic operators. In this way, through these criteria, which are very important for us in the interior, it seems to me that we will come into the situation that priority in the performance of the works from now on, not only in Belgrade and Novi Sad, but also in the interior, will have companies from Belgrade and Novi Sad, because they are technically the most equipped, have a large number of employees (this is one of the basic criteria, as defined by me, Article 3) and that this law will very much mean the creation of a monopoly in the construction sector, and that the biggest losers will again, as I said earlier, be firms from the interior. That's what's inadmissible. And without these criteria, I find this law unacceptable to all of us MPs who come from the inside, because the inside has suffered quite a bit in this transition process. The largest number of industries in the industry are in the interior, these companies are mostly closed in the privatisation process, in the interior of Serbia there is much more unemployment than Belgrade and Novi Sad, and I believe that these legal projects create a situation that unfortunately only worsens, rather than improves, at least when it comes to the situation in our environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42749	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s Parliament of Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42750	Excuse me, how much time does the parliamentary group have? (President: 15 minutes and 30 seconds. I thank you. The amendment shall be submitted to Article 8. And in the principle debate, we pointed to a illogical definition that the law ceases to apply on 31 December 2011. It is not clear how it is possible to predict when the economic crisis will end. There is an economic science in both us and the world of disagreement and it is very ungrateful to predict it, so I think that the legislator, more specifically the Ministry, should not have indulged in such an easy definition and assumed, I don't know on what basis, that the crisis would end on December 31st and that it should stop the validity of this law. In that sense, the amendment relies on practice, profession, relying on statements by Mr Goran Rodic of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, who is in charge of the area right now. He argues that the very companies the minister avoids talking about, which are monopolies on this market, which are the Austrian companies "Strabag", "Pore" and "Alpina", which are dominant and which, which are completely incomprehensible, have been given to build such significant buildings as the bridge over Vienna, such as Gazela, such as Brankov Bridge, although it is, that the absurd would be bigger, or to use that word – the shame is greater, all these bridges built by the world-renowned Mostobuilding company. How could he get an Austrian firm just because of the so-called. European standards, which are essentially far from those written in the Treaty establishing the European Community, I think it is Article 85, about unfair competition, but it means, in practice, forsing companies, banks from Austria, from Western Europe, at the expense of companies such as our Bridge and as it happens everywhere in Eastern Europe. What does that mean exactly? It means that there will be less employment, that our builders will not get jobs, that our Bridge must work in Russia, in the Dominican Republic and similar countries in South America, and cannot get jobs for which it is professional and for which it has all the references and cannot work, for example, to rebuild the bridge at Beška, which was just erected by the Bridge in the 1970s. So, we can cite here a list of good wishes, say they are European standards, but in practice, these European standards are exactly what is devastating in our industry, in the end by employment in this country, and it cannot be avoided with the help of beautiful phrases – that the EU has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42751	Fifty seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Excuse me, please register again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42752	This is the last amendment of the SRS to this bill. Mr. Mirovic explained why it is not typical that in the last member, which belongs to the so-called so-called. a group of transitional and final provisions, carrying out this kind of extradition – as long as one law is in force. I'd just like to continue, to step up and explain that by adopting this amendment, we're not in favour of this law being boundless, because that way someone might conclude. We simply ask that all the draft laws, when they come to the National Assembly, be in accordance with those provisions in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's the first thing. Another thing I'd like to potential in this debate. I must remind you, once the MPs of the SRS submitted amendments in which there was an 'clear' member, so we said - it's impossible to fix the law. I am glad that other parliamentary groups have accepted this today, so they have submitted similar amendments because they have seen that it cannot be corrected in any way. This is really pointless and it's not a matter that can be in any law at all. Now something I hope Mr. Dulic won't get wrong. Of course, when a difficult economic situation comes, then measures are taken. What measures? Those who, in accordance with the Constitution, can provide the best protection. Because the whole policy is being led to ensure that citizens live as well as possible, and that the damage to the crisis situations, which probably must be tolerated, is as little as possible. That is, after all, the purpose of politics. So I'm glad to hear that there are some thoughts about your own isolation. But I have to remind you all, a year and a half ago I was the subject of great criticism, because when Obama said "we have to stop importing cheap steel from abroad, to raise our steel industry," I said -- that fits into the principles of market economy. That's when they attacked me. They attacked me, though, and when I made a positive statement about something Berlusconi said about Italy last year, when he said, "We have to celebrate our national dishes as a brand, not some kewapes." Then I said – an interesting view of the market economy in the EU by one of the founding countries of the EU. Of course, I was once again attacked by journalists (although they are constantly attacking me), but also politicians. I see now that the mood changes with those who are in power. Simply, there are indications that they want to put into the centre their political activities and legislative activities primarily the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the interests of our economy and to create conditions for a better life with us. However, when we return to the title of this law, to the construction industry, the state can report as an investor in matters of public importance, which are financed through budgets or parabuges funds, meaning - public utility companies, directorates, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the province, units of local self-government. However, when it comes to something that is real for the market, there is no way that we can legally influence in the sense of incentive. Only some kind of help is possible to create a business-friendly environment and conditions. This country must not intervene, but must ensure these conditions – equality, equality on the market, etc. I get the impression that there's a kind of a replacement here. Just to remind you, as a form of assistance to this commercial form is also the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Loans, various government programmes, which, however, do not go directly towards investors and contractors, but through banks try to help in some way by affecting interest, but for the part where the state invests, there is a National Investment Plan. And then the question arises – why should we go into this now? Can we solve the liquidity issue of a construction operation? We can't, the state can't solve it. Was there any possibility of having some sort of concentration of potential? It's something else, but it's not the matter of the law. A little while ago, someone here was commenting, and I dropped it to disagree – well, of course, whoever doesn't have a machine doesn't have an opera, can't use a bag and a bow and paper to prove his ability to be a contractor. Few of us have complete construction companies that have everything – from static, through people who deal with concrete, to final works. As a rule, high-building facilities require the co-operation of a large number of companies engaged as subcontractors for some craft jobs. They're all in this system where 70% of construction firms show indifference and thus inability to participate in public competition. It's much more dangerous. The public needs to know – this involvement of foreigners to work with us on some facilities collects the price of these facilities, the value of these facilities, by 20 to 40 percent. It is data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, not invented by Zoran Krasic. Please pay attention. In this industry, 92,000 people work, both the one involved in building buildings and the one that produces the building material that is necessary for this. If you want to be successful in the construction industry today, and any part of these two to observe, then I would recommend that you be an associate witness. Because when you're a witness associate and you have a road company, you have quarrys, you have everything you need to build low, you have state security, that no one can even hit your mirror. Excuse me, please, when such a business partner, who is an associate witness so as not to be in jail, and it is indisputable that he committed a crime, comes with police security to arrange a job, to see who won't close a deal with such a "businessman". You have simply promoted the principle – the dream of every youth in Serbia is to be a witness associate. Because then there's state protection, there's this kind of monopoly in the business so he can buy both colleges and universities, etc. I just don't know what students could learn there. This may seem a little funny, but it is tragic. There's a system here that can't survive. If the state, local self-government, should be an investor, it can do so when it comes to public facilities, where there is the responsibility of the state and the responsibility of local self-government, where the Constitution and the law stipulate that the state and local self-government must provide conditions, so, in order to ensure these conditions, it also appears as an object. And, as a rule, the state does not do this work directly, but does it through its directorates and specialised organizations that should do it. Every kind of concentration of this job in one place is devastating. It's really devastating. Now there's really a question of how to help what's called the construction industry when 70% of these companies are unequivocal. Not to mention the companies that are in bankruptcy, that have failed, that I'm not talking about the privatisation process of these companies, above all, that there's been a mob expression. And what I keep saying in this building here, it's not exactly the same law in Belgrade and in the White Palace, and we can't pass a regulation or law considering only Belgrade, not taking into account the specificities of another environment. Just to remind you, our local self-government has spent several more years on budgets. Why? They were in debt. And every following year, it is questioned whether their current budgets will be able to service what is the only obligation of local self-government, which are primarily those jobs that are an unimaginable condition for life and work in a particular area. Probably in Babusnica, the kindergarten can create an entrepreneur with several workers, given the capacity, the gauges, etc., but some other object of public importance, in Belgrade, will have to work very serious construction companies, which must be proven with construction operations, machines, facilities, workers, qualifications, references etc. I expected it to be regulated by a bill like this to be introduced. Just to remind you, with no intention of anyone misreading what I'm about to say, but, Mr. Dulic, and in 2003, when the Construction Act was adopted, out of charity called "Shumarce Law", there were so many criticisms of the current situation, some were justified, and it was said that this law would solve everything, that in 30 to 40 days construction permits would be granted and that it would work. That law has shown very negative results. The law even allowed some monopolies to be created, and it introduced chaos into everything called paperwork. This law of yours came last year. We criticized you for why this law is wrong and we said he wouldn't solve any questions. And he didn't solve it. I'm not talking, you're talking. There are no construction permits in Belgrade long ago. Someone took over the locations – both Luka and Auto-Command, etc. So you said you'd discuss the issue of mouths, so it wasn't discussed. So you will discuss the matter of Belville, and it is not settled. So it's said -- there's a surplus of housing units that can't be sold. Well, is something being made because there's a need or do I need this law to be passed to make... What? What happens? To do something? Well, we already have that. What about the location of the Leader? What's going to happen here? Why is that late? Who stopped it? Who's stopping it? Mr. Dulic, low points, low corners in Belgrade have big problems. Someone was surveilling massive buildings, but had no idea what the municipal infrastructure was like. It's raining, the sewers are pouring. Raising people, making some roofs. Snow falls, breaks a man's terrace. You know, I'm fully aware that there's nothing you can do in this area. Not because you don't want that kind of authority, but because it's such a dispersion of power in the area of construction, it's terrible. Do you know that in some streets between 31 December 2009 and 6 January 2010, objects (although, from aluminum, can be said to be montage), and immediately, already on 15 January, have been granted a license, working, whether or not the barrels, whether or not they are something else.? If you took into account only what all the objection is, the citizen's objection to this kind of construction, and if you took that to solve it, what kind of job would it be?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42753	People's MP, time has been used. Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? (No) I am concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, July 1, 2010, starting at 15.35pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. I thank the MPs who participated in the work, and I apologize for not being informed that we did not take a break today. Since working hours were shorter than 10:00 to 6:00 p.m., I thank you for your patience and your work without a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-01-0.u42754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly, so I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 126 MPs are now present in the O.R. and that we can move to decision-making. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE SUPPORT OF THE CITIZEN INDUSTRY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE CONDITIONS OF THE ECONOMY CRISIS As the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on encouraging the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia in the context of the economic crisis, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, two voted for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 122 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Maja Lausevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 124 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Please let us plead as well. Of the 127 MPs, it voted 125. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, one vote is for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Milentijevic and Arsen Djuric. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Bojana Stanojevic submitted. The government has accepted this amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 125 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, the vote was 10. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Vladimir Milentijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 13. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Of the 127 MPs, eight voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Milentijevic and Arsen Djuric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Stanojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Of the 131 MPs, five voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Of the 132 MPs, six voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Of the 130 MPs, 10 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you he's a member of the 8th. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the draft law, the Government has stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, in accordance with Article 196(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia consists of its expected start immediately after its adoption with the overcoming of the negative effects of the economic crisis in the area of construction, i.e. the recovery of the construction industry in the Republic of Serbia. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 128 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the incentive of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under conditions of economic crisis, in general. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill to encourage the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT AS THE National Assembly has carried out a search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 180(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the choice of each judge of the Constitutional Court individually, by a secret vote, unless he decides to make the vote public. I suggest that the National Assembly make the choice of the Constitutional Court judge by public vote, using the electronic voting system, and I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, 127 were declared to be my proposal. I find that the National Assembly has decided to make the choice of the Constitutional Court judges public vote, using an electronic voting system. I remind you that the National Assembly, under Article 105 of Section 2 of point 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, elects the judges of the Constitutional Court and decides on their resolution and termination of the mandate by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting on the vote by the President of the Republic to elect Sabahudin Tahirovic, Judge of the Supreme Court in Novi Sad, as judge of the Constitutional Court. Of the 132 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has chosen Sabahudin Tahirovic as judge of the Constitutional Court. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect Enver Niksic, Assistant Director-General of the Republic Fund for PIO, although we have already declared ourselves. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly did not, most of the votes of all the MPs, elect Enver Niksic to judge the Constitutional Court. I congratulate Mr Sabahudin Tahirovic on his election to judge the Constitutional Court and wish him success in his work. Since the session shows the injury of the National Assembly’s servants, I remind you of the provision of Articles 100, paragraphs 6 and 10. [[Applause]] The Rules of Procedure, according to which, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, the National Assembly will, without delay, declare on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Momo Colaković pointed to a violation of article 27 at a session on 1 July 2010 at 1215 hours. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, 12 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of all the points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, I conclude the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. I thank you for your participation in the work.
